                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000792




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD-46690)




                                    ON A

                    LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.66 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                   FOR A

           GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT LEARNING NETWORK PROJECT




                                 June 26, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        Exchange Rate Effective February 2008

             Currency Unit = Rupiah (IDR)
               IDR 1.00 = US$ 0.0001102
                US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,074.41

                    FISCAL YEAR
        January 1 ­ December 31 (at appraisal)

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPKP         Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CLR          Center for Learning Resources
CPCU         Central Project Coordination Unit of DUE and QUE
CPIU         Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE         Directorate General of Higher Education
DLC(s)       Distance Learning Center(s)

DUE/QUE      Development of Undergraduate Education/Quality of
             Undergraduate Education
EAP          East Asia Pacific
EAPA         East Asia Pacific Association
FMR          Financial Management Report
GDLN         Global Development Learning Network
GoI          Government of Indonesia
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IT           Information Technology
ISG          Information Solutions Group
LA           Loan Agreement
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
KPKN         Ministry of Finance Treasury Office
MoNE         Ministry of National Education
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NGO(s)       Non-Governmental Organization(s)
NOC          Network Operations Center
PAR          Procurement Assessment Review
PMM          Project Management Manual
UI           University of Indonesia
UNHAS        Hasanuddin University
UNRI         University of Riau
UNUD         Udayana University
WBI          World Bank Institute


             Vice President: James W. Adams
           Country Director: Joachim von Amsberg
            Sector Manager: James Stevens (Acting)
        Project Team Leader: Mae Chu Chang/Ratna Kesuma
          ICR Team Leader: Robert L. McGough

                                            INDONESIA
              GLOBAL DEVEVELOPMENT LEARNING PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 16
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 29
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 30
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 38
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
 Map IBRD 36232.......................................................................................................... 40

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Global Development
Country:                Indonesia              Project Name:          Learning Network
                                                                      Project (LIL)
Project ID:             P073970                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46690
ICR Date:               06/26/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      INDONESIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.7M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 1.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of National Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/03/2001    Effectiveness:         03/04/2003         03/04/2003
Appraisal:             04/10/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/28/2002    Mid-term Review:       10/11/2004
                                     Closing:               09/30/2006         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Unsatisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:           Unsatisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators         (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                      Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Telecommunications                                            55                 45
Tertiary education                                            45                 55


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                          Primary          Primary
Technology diffusion                                         Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Joachim von Amsberg             Mark Baird
Sector Manager:           James A. Stevens                Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:      Mae Chu Chang                   Jerry G. Strudwick
ICR Team Leader:          Robert L. McGough
ICR Primary Author:       Robert L. McGough



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To (i) strengthen the capacity of policy makers in Indonesia by providing access to new
information, seminars, and linkages with counterparts in the region and around the world.
tand (ii) to provide the latest communication technology for quality distance learning and
information exchange between institutions in Indonesia and regional and global network
distance learning networks.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                            ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval        Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   A trend that reflects an increased number of development focused GDLN
                learning products subscribed to by public and private sector professionals
                                            1000 person days
                                            in year 1 of DLC                 less than 1000

Value                                       GDLN activity;                   person days over

quantitative or 0                           2500 in year 2 of                the life of the

Qualitative)                                DLC GDLN                         project estimate
                                            activity; 3225 in                only about 15% of
                                            year 3 of DLC                    target achieved.
                                            GDLN activity.
Date achieved 09/06/2002                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A trend that shows an increasing number and variety of organizations using
Indicator 2 :   GDLN DLCs.

                                                                             From back of zero
                                            A trend that shows               there was a greater
                                            an increasing                    number and variety
Value                                       number and                       of organizations
quantitative or 0                           variety of                       using DLCs by EoP
Qualitative)                                organizations                    but data is
                                            using GDLN                       imprecise and trend
                                            DLCs.                            is difficult to
                                                                             demonstrate
Date achieved 09/06/2002                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   DLC facility utilization rate of 55% by EOP
                                                                             less than 20% by
Value                                                                        EoP regional
quantitative or 0                           55% by EOP                       experience suggests
Qualitative)                                                                 55% was a few
                                                                             ambitious target
Date achieved 09/06/2002                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised        Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  DLCs certified by ISG
                                        All 4 DLCs

Value                                   certified by

(quantitative  0                        12/31/2003.                         January 2007
or Qualitative)                         Completed with
                                        substantial delay
                                        (01/09/2007)
Date achieved 09/06/2002                01/09/2007                          01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  DLC Business Plans reviewed twice a year and modified to reflect progress and
               newly identified opportunities
Value                                   BPS to be                           Business Plans
(quantitative  0                        reviewed twice a                    were not routinely
or Qualitative)                         year                                developed.
Date achieved 09/06/2002                12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  GDLN M&E system producing quality input to BPs and DLC management
               reviews
Value
(quantitative  0                        Effective systems                   Unavailability of

or Qualitative)                         by MTR                              baseline data

Date achieved 09/06/2002                10/11/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  45% of content is provided by national and international partners by end of year
               2 of DLC GDLN activity
                                        60% of content is
                                        provided by                         No significant

Value                                   national and                        content prepared in

(quantitative  0                        international                       fist three year and

or Qualitative)                         partners by end of                  failure to reach

                                        year 3 of DLC                       even targets for

                                        GDLN activity                       2004 by EoP

Date achieved 09/06/2002                06/30/2009                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived             DO                IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
  1   12/29/2002         Satisfactory     Satisfactory               0.00
  2   06/27/2003         Satisfactory     Satisfactory               0.03
  3   12/22/2003       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             0.53
  4   06/22/2004       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             0.91
  5   12/21/2004       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             0.91
  6   05/10/2005       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             0.91
  7   12/19/2005         Satisfactory     Satisfactory               0.98
  8   07/14/2006         Satisfactory     Satisfactory               1.36
  9   06/22/2007         Satisfactory     Satisfactory               1.36
  10  06/12/2008       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             1.46



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
The Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) was launched by the Bank as a
unique partnership of public, private, and non-government organizations, to build a
virtual global community and to provide cost-effective learning opportunities for key
stakeholders in the development process, in order to close the knowledge gap between
developed and developing countries as new countries join the network. Currently, GDLN
affiliated Distance Learning Centers (DLCs) are fully operational in all of the Bank's
operational regions. In the EAP region, DLCs currently exist in almost all of the larger
nations as well as many of the smaller. Some are connected to national networks which
provide even more distribution capacity to support distance learning.

The Indonesia GDLN Project was Bank financed through a Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL), as a pilot, to test the potential effectiveness and sustainability of the Global
Development Learning Network (GDLN) in Indonesia. The project was also designed to
expand access to development management information, strengthen the capacity of key-
decision makers in both the public and private sectors, and to improve levels of regional
dialogue on policy-related issues. In addition to the above, the project was also designed
to develop appropriate technologies to link the Jakarta-based GDLN center to three
regional university centers, representing the western, central and eastern regions. These
linkages were intended to magnify the potential impact of the GDLN as a dynamic,
potentially low cost development tool and provide an effective platform for regional
distance learning and information exchange between key Indonesian institutions and the
regional and global networks of GDLN.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The joint IBRD/IFC/IDA 2001 CAS (Document number: 21580-IND, last discussion
prior to date of PAD was 1/20/2001) supports efforts to reduce poverty and vulnerability
in a more democratic and decentralized environment. It articulates a strategy that
specifically focuses on: (a) sustaining economic recovery and promoting broad-based
growth; (b) building national institutions for an accountable Borrower; and (c) delivering
better public services to the poor.

The project was designed to be an important communication tool to support the
realization of the CAS objectives, in that it would directly contribute to improving
development knowledge in both the public and private sectors. In addition, it would
contribute to: (a) improving skill levels in the public service and other segments of
society; (b) increasing knowledge sharing within Indonesia and internationally; and (c)
developing consensus and national/regional dialogue. It was anticipated that the outcome
of the LIL would be the basis for GDLN replication to additional universities within
Indonesia.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The PDOs were not clearly stated in the text of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
however, they were stated in Annex 1 of that document as part of the presentation of Key




                                              1

Performance Indicators. For the purposes of this ICR, the PDOs stated in Schedule 2 of
the Loan Agreement (LA) will be used. They are as follows:

The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) expanding the access to
information on development, through the strengthening of the capacity of decision
makers in the public and private sectors and the improvement of regional dialogue on
policy-related issues, and (ii) providing the latest communication technology for quality
distance learning and information exchange between institutions in Indonesia and
regional and global network distance learning networks.


Key Indicators
The following are the key indicators as stated in Schedule 6 of the LA.

                Indicator                     May      May 2004      May 2005       Closing
                                              2003                                   Date

 Distance Learning Center GDLN                  x
 certification completed successfully
 Business plans reviewed bi-annually and        x           x             x             x
 modified to reflect progress and newly
 identified opportunities
 Financial management systems in                x
 operation and effective
 Monitoring and assessment systems                          x             x             x
 producing quality input to bi-annual
 business plan reviews and Project
 management reviews
 Evidence of a trend that reflects an                  1000 person-     2500         3225
 increase in the number of development                 days training person-days  person-days
 focused GDLN learning products                                        training     training
 (including: courses; training sessions;
 seminars; debates; awareness
 campaigns; and national, global and
 local dialogues on development issues)
 subscribed to by public and private
 professionals
 Evidence of a trend that reflects a clear                  x             x             x
 progression towards Distance Learning
 Centers becoming self-sustaining
 Quality and relevance of courses offered                75% of        80% of       85% of
 by the GDLN is evaluated satisfactory                 participants  participants participants
 or better by participants
 Content provided by national and                         45%            55%          65%
 international partners
 Distance learning facility utilization                   30%            45%          55%
 rate


                                             2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDOs were not formally revised. However, since there were long delays in the
installation and certification of the equipment, the targets of the Performance Indicators
(PI) were shifted to 2007 after the certification of the equipment was completed on
January 2007 (ISR10, Annex 9). Some of the performance indicators were also reduced
to reflect the reality that the project DLCs would have a more limited time for operation
within the project implementation period. This decision to reduce the indicator targets, in
effect, reduced the required impact and outcomes of the project.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Statement of Main Beneficiaries was not provided in the PAD or LA. However in
the PAD, under the subsection, Participation (Section B.4), the following quote describes
the intended beneficiaries to some extent, "the project is expected to increase policy
dialogue through the extension of opportunities for Borrower officials, private sector
professionals and civil society to participate and contribute to the development of the
country."

In addition, the PDOs (LA, Schedule 2) did identify decision makers in the public and
private sectors as being main beneficiaries. Since the four project sites were established
at universities, it is also reasonable to assume that university administrators, faculty, and
students would be direct beneficiaries of the project.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1 ­ Establishing, retrofitting and equipping: the main GDLN center at
UI's Salemba campus (a section of a new building will be committed to GDLN) and
the three selected sub-centers at the Universities of Hasanuddin (in Makassar), Riau
(in Pekanbaru) and Udayana (in Denpasar)

The main Global Development Learning Network (GDLN) center at the University of
Indonesia (UI) will be retrofitted and equipped to include two technology-based
classrooms (synchronous and asynchronous) connected to GDLN Washington through
two-way multimedia facilities for video, data, and voice exchange. The synchronous
classroom will enable video-conferencing with real-time, video interaction between local
course participants, remote course instructors and other international participants, and
will also include facilities for simultaneous interpretation. Participants will have access to
a computer screen sharing facility (T. 120 Standard) which can be used to support
synchronous learning.

The asynchronous room will be used for asynchronous course delivery, which is Internet
based. Both classrooms will be outfitted with 30 computer stations, (which include
hardware, software, pedagogical tools, internet hook-up, and the installation and/or
upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring). The Jakarta GDLN center will also include
a reception area, offices, and support facilities for Distance Learning Center(s) (DLC)
staff.



                                              3

The three sub-centers will be retrofitted and partially equipped to include one multimedia
classroom. Each sub-center will combine the asynchronous and synchronous functions
into a single classroom, which will provide pedagogical tools for 15 participants. The
rooms will be retrofitted to accommodate the required wiring for computer networking,
support clean power delivery, and to enable a high quality video-conferencing. The
delivery speed and all synchronous features will be identical to that of the main center in
Jakarta (with the exception of reduced access speed for asynchronous course
development, as the asynchronous server will be located at UI). However, the multimedia
two-way network program exchange between the sub-centers and the GDLN center will
be based on IP protocol (technology), which will significantly reduce the up-front
investment costs. To ensure long-term sustainability, the sub-centers will be designed to
make optimum use of the existing domestic connectivity and the communication
infrastructure already provided by PT Telkom.

Component 2: Support for center and sub-centers operation. This component
includes (a) financing of operation costs on a decreasing basis (100%; 75%; and 50%)
over the four years of implementation; (b) technical assistance for training of DLC staff,
periodic evaluation of their operations and management effectiveness, and the
establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit; (c) funds for the sponsoring
and development of local course content and partnerships; and (d) financing of
technology review and upgrade.

1.6 Revised Components
As described above the original project included two components: (1) establishing,
retrofitting and equipping the main GDLN center and the three sub-centers; and (2)
supporting GDLN operations on a decreasing basis over the project's four year
implementation period.

During implementation, Component 2 was revised and split into two separate
components (Components 2 and 3). Under this arrangement, the original Component 1
did not change; Component 2 included the provision of support for GDLN operations on
a decreasing basis over the project's four year implementation period; and Component 3
included the provision of support for project management at the level of the Central
Project Implementation Unit (CPIU).

The ICR found no evidence that the required technology review and upgrading was
included in the revised components, or was implemented (Section 1.5 Component 2(d)).
This is an important note in that one of the criticisms of this project was that it did not, at
project completion, provide the latest and most suitable technology as required by PDO1.

1.7 Other significant changes
Due to long delays and procurement problems, there were significant changes made to
the project's implementation arrangements and schedule. These delays resulted in the
project receiving one loan extension that changed the closing date of the loan from




                                             4

September 20, 2006 to December 31, 2007. The issues associated with these delays are
discussed in more detail in Section 2.2.

Following the completion of the project, the project sites joined the INHERENT
(Indonesia's new national video-conference network for university development) to
provide wider coverage of the national network through national networking. At the time
of ICR preparation, discussions were underway to establish an Indonesia GDLN
Association with the project DLC at the University of Indonesia, Jakarta as the hub
linking Indonesia's three regional DLCs with GDLN networks in the South East Asia
region. This Association, through its connection to INHERENT would provide the
possibility for linking the domestic system with the international GDLN network. These
actions must be seen as positive as they provide significant potential for the future use
and sustainability of the project sites; however, these actions did not take place during the
project implementation period and are only obliquely mentioned as a possibility in the
Risk Section of the PAD (page 10) - a one line reference indicating the intent that the
project sites should join existing domestic and regional distance learning networks in
order to enhance their potential for self sustainability. While INHERENT was not in the
original design of the project, the GOI nevertheless has drawn lessons from the
experiences of Bank-funded GDLN to develop a distance learning network that could
serve the original objective of (i) expanding the access to information on development,
through the strengthening of the capacity of decision makers in the public and private
sectors and the improvement of regional dialogue on policy-related issues, and (ii)
providing the latest communication technology for quality distance learning and
information exchange between institutions in Indonesia and regional and global network
distance learning networks. These developments should be considered a significant and
positive factor in the development of the project DLCs, however, since these activities
were not part of the Loan Agreement, the ICR did not consider the joining of
INHERENT as a project outcome to be considered or evaluated.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The project was affected by several factors that plagued the project's implementation and
outcomes. The project went for almost four years with limited implementation progress,
procurement or disbursement. In the end, these long delays resulted in significant
shortfalls in the project's performance and outcomes as required under the provisions of
the Loan Agreement (LA). The following are several key factors that contributed to these
long delays:

    (a) The project suffered from unusual and difficult procurement problems throughout
       its implementation (see Section 2.1). These problems required long and difficult
       interactions between the Bank and the Borrower;
    (b) The Borrower and the University of Indonesia grew frustrated with the slow
       progress of the project, and when planned activities failed to be implemented
       counterpart funds were reallocated for use in other university programs during
       several project years;




                                              5

    (c) Bank (ISG) and contractor staff turnovers were seen to have a negative impact on
        project implementation;
    (d) Project documentation and Borrower comments (see Borrower's ICR, Annex 9)
        indicate that the Borrower was not comfortable with the use of the Information
        Solutions Group (ISG) as the facilitator for the technical design and procurement
        of equipment.    The Borrower believed that ISG was too authoritative in its
        dealings with the borrower and that some of the technical services, training, and
        advice given by ISG were less than satisfactory. As a result communications,
        cooperation, and implementation activities were often delayed and could be
        characterized as troubled between the Borrower and the Bank. This resulted in a
        much longer than expected procurement cycle, wrong decisions being made (i.e.,
        selection of technology for connectivity between Jakarta and Washington),
        delayed disbursements, a loan extension, and unfulfilled expectations on the part
        of the Borrower (Borrower's ICR and the Data and Findings from Local
        Interviews to Support Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report for
        GDLN LIL, 2008, Annex 9);
    (e) There was an unfortunate accident in Denpasar, Bali, that disabled one ISG
        engineer, with the result being the stoppage of significant staff training by ISG.
        This training had been formally agreed upon by both the Borrower and the Bank,
        but was not fully provided during the project period;
    (f) There were delays by contracted firms (the first was replaced during project
        implementation).     These delays also contributed to additional delays in
        procurement, installation of the equipment, and the training of university staff to
        operate the highly technical equipment; and
    (g) There were multi-year delays in the required certifications of installed equipment
        and Jakarta-Washington connectivity (ISDN) at the project facilities by ISG.
        These certifications were planned for May 2003, but were actually provided by
        ISG on January 9, 2007. These certifications were a required condition before
        ISG would allow any video conference link through the Bank to the GDLN.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Based on lessons learned. The concept and design of the GDLN centers were based on
lessons learned during the establishment of previous GDLN centers in the EAP and
Africa regions. The use of the LIL as a financing instrument to establish GDLN centers
had precedent in other countries; for example, the Bank used LILs to support the
establishment of a number of GDLN centers in Africa. The one noted difference was that
in Africa, the LILs typically financed the establishment of a single GDLN center and they
were for larger amounts (up to US$5.0 million), while in this project (US$2.6 million) the
LIL was used to finance four centers that were linked together, and located in separate
universities. Most of the funds were intended for equipment and operational costs on a
declining basis over the duration of the project.

Borrower's early concerns about procurement. During the design process, the
technical staff from the Bank provided a clear explanation of the implementation process
and the necessary procurement based on their previous experience in developing similar
GDLN units in other places. However, during project preparation, the Borrower's



                                             6

preparation team came to understand that the Bank, ISG, would not allow substantial
change in the technology and design specifications to accommodate the local
characteristics of the project, especially when it came to the technical specifications of
computer equipment (see consultant report, Data and Findings from Local Interviews to
Support Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report for GDLN LIL, 2008,
Annex 9). During this time, the Bank (ISG) also required that all technology equipment
be first delivered to Washington for testing, simulation, and calibration, and then
transshipped to the project sites. ISG had these requirements to insure compatibility of
equipment and DLCs throughout the Bank's network. However, this process left the
Borrower with a perception that they were not in control of the project and in fact, had
few options regarding the selection and installation of the equipment, even though they
were the loan recipient, project manager and purchaser of the equipment. The Borrower
continues to believe that there may have been other lower cost options available which
would have also provided equal levels of compatibility with GDLN technologies used in
the EAP region.

The Borrower's concerns are given some credence when one understands that the GDLN
network currently has other non-Bank member DLCs and often links to guest DLCs in all
of its regions which were not established with ISG oversight. In these DLCs one finds
various brands and types of equipment that were not staged, simulated or calibrated by
the Bank before operation. The DLCs at Australia National University (ANU) and the
University of the South Pacific (USP) are good examples in the EAP region. The ICR
suggests that there might have been a more positive, yet equally effective approach to the
selection, procurement, installation, calibration and certification of equipment than the
one that was offered and strongly recommended by the Bank. It also questions the need
for sole source contracting for such `plug and play' equipment as primarily purchased for
this project.

The ICR also notes that these issues, along with other procurement concerns have been
the basis for many discussions, delays and some uncomfortable relationships between the
Bank and Borrower (See PSR1, PSR2 and PSR3, Annex 9). They are seen by both the
Bank and Borrower project teams as factors that negatively affected the implementation
of the project.

Inadequacy of project documentation. The ICR also found that the early project
documentation was lacking in several ways. The PAD did not use the standard project
format, but instead used a purpose built format that may have been intended for use only
with LILs. As it is written, it does not adequately provide the necessary baseline data
required to support the preparation of the ICR. As an example, the PDOs were not stated
in the main body of the PAD, but instead were stated in Annex A as a part of the matrix
describing the performance indicators. The PDOs were also stated in a form that is
difficult to measure in any meaningful way. They were never officially clarified and
should have been. Furthermore, there were three PDOs stated in Annex A of the PAD,
while there were only two approved PDOs stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2).




                                             7

When one looks at both sets of objectives, there is one apparent variance in the meaning
of the PAD's PDOs as compared with approved objectives found in the Loan Agreement
(Schedule 2). In the approved objectives (Loan Agreement), it was declared that the
project would provide the latest communication technology for quality distance learning
and information exchange between institutions in Indonesia and regional and global
network distance learning networks. In the PDOs stated in the PAD, and subsequently
used in the ISRs, the meaning of the approved objective was less rigorous saying that the
project would provide an effective platform for quality distance learning and information
exchange. This is a subtle change, but it is important to note and is more fully discussed
in later sections and in the risk assessment subsection below (item e).

It is also noted that some of the project's performance indicators used the term `trend'
(toward improvements) as a measure of successful performance. The ICR would argue
that such a measurement is generally too imprecise to be used in as a performance
indicator.

Risk Assessment. The overall risk of this project was rated as substantial. The ICR
agrees with this assessment. The PAD also provided an adequate estimate of potential
risks and specific plans for the remediation of those risks. At project completion, almost
all of these identified risks have materialized as factors that negatively influenced the
implementation of the project and quality of its outcomes. Unfortunately, the ICR also
found that the mitigation strategies, although discussed in project documentation and
stated in the PAD, were not adequately implemented. The reasons for the lack of
mitigation are difficult to determine. Perhaps some of these risks could have been
remediated if the project had not suffered from the long implementation delays.
Examples of these stated risks include:

(a) Sustainability ­ The PAD identified the risk that DLCs may not reach a level of cost
recovery that was agreed upon in the project design (risk rated as substantial). The ICR
found that, to date, there has been little if any cost recovery by the projects DLCs. It is
also noted that the project design included a financing arrangement whereby the DLCs
would receive operational financing provided by the project on a declining basis leading
to self-sustainability at the completion of the project. This arrangement was never
implemented due, in part, to the long delays in the project.

Although these project DLCs have not demonstrated the potential for any acceptable
level of self-sustainability as originally planned in the project, it should be noted that as
university supported media centers/DLCs, it is highly likely that all centers will be
sustained indefinitely as part of the academic programs of the four host universities. The
universities consider these DLCs to be valuable units that add capacity and increased
access to learning within the respective universities and as outreach vehicles for
university instruction at a distance. This sustainability is certainly not to be confused
with self-sustainability as originally intended in the project design. However, it is
reasonable to assume that the project DLCs, in some form, will be fully supported
(sustained) by the universities for the foreseeable future. It is also reasonable to assume
that there is potential for some income generation to be derived now that the DLCs are



                                               8

finally operational and from the project DLCs' relationship with the INHERENT
network, however, the original assumption that the GDLN would be sustainable as an
independent cost recovery unit is yet to be proven anywhere in the world.

(b) Availability of quality relevant content ­ The PAD identified the risk that the DLCs
have substantial capacity to provide services, but this capacity may not be used due, in
part, to the lack of access to relevant distance learning content, particularly content in
Bahasa Indonesia (risk rated as substantial). The ICR found that the project DLCs
continue to have limited availability of quality distance learning materials suitable for
effective program use through their facilities. This has been an ongoing concern of all
GDLN centers in the region and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. No
significant effort was made to mitigate this risk during the project period as the DLCs
were in very limited, informal operation until ISG certification in January 2007.

(c) Borrower commitment - The PAD identified the risk that the Borrower may not be
able to establish a strong commitment to train/inform civil servants via non-traditional
methods, and willingness of Borrower institutions, private sector, donors and individuals
to participate in and pay for GDLN program and course offerings (risk rated as
moderate). The ICR found that compared to the significant capacity of the project DLCs,
few civil servants have been trained in the DLCs to date, however, the Borrower does not
consider this risk to be a significant concern once the DLCs become fully operational,
with access to quality content that is relevant to the needs of civil servants. In the view of
the ICR, substantial risk remains that non-university organizations, particularly in the
service areas of the three project DLCs outside of Jakarta, may not be as willing to
participate and pay for GDLN services.

(d) Equipment management ­ The PAD identified the risk that the Borrower might not be
able to maintain reliable management of GDLN equipment (risk rated as moderate). The
ICR found that the Borrower continues to have a significant concern about the quality of
training provided to support equipment maintenance and management. As a result, the
quality of expertise located at the four project sites is considered less than satisfactory. It
will take time and additional training to bring long term improvements to this capacity.
The ICR found that the project DLCs are using various approaches to make this happen
and there is reason to assume that eventually the necessary level of technical training will
be fully met. The ICR did find that the mitigation of this risk was clearly unsatisfactory
during the project implementation period.

(e) Obsolescence of equipment ­ The PAD identified the risk that the procured
equipment would become quickly obsolescent (risk rated as moderate). As previously
mentioned the ICR found that the Borrower considers the installed equipment to be less
than the latest available as required by PDO1. Findings from other GDLN DLCs in the
EAP Region (see recent Collocated GDLN Site Study Report (2008) conducted by
EAPVP) suggest that they too have strong concerns about the inadequacy of the current
technologies used by Bank/GDLN in the region. This supports the credence that must be
given to the Borrower's concern. Of course it can be argued that the equipment was
state-of-the-art when the project was designed, but then, since the risk was clearly



                                              9

identified in the PAD, one must then question the quality of mitigation that was initiated
to address this risk.     Related to this finding, the ICR notes that that the planned
technology review and update in the original Component 1 (Section 1.5 Component 2(d))
was never implemented.

(f) Equipment operation and maintenance ­ The PAD identified the risk that the
Borrower might not be able to maintain effective equipment operation and maintenance
(risk rated as moderate). The equipment installed in each DLC is sophisticated and
requires high technology support to maintain. Untrained maintenance and operation of
the installed equipment can easily damage the high technology equipment which will
then require expensive repair and possible replacement. The Borrower has indicated this
in its own ICR, and it was also a finding of the consultant report, that there was
insufficient training in equipment maintenance and operation provided by ISG and the
contractors, even though, in ISG's case there was a written agreement that they would
provide that training (see PSR1). Furthermore, it is noted that the available trained staffs
at the DLC sites are currently few in number, and if any were to leave the project, they
may be difficult to replace and to retrain. This is particularly true in the three DLCs
located outside the Jakarta area. If shortages of trained staff become critical, the DLCs
will find it difficult to operate.    This issue is a substantial factor in the potential
sustainability of this project. International experience with other GDLN DLCs supports
this conclusion.

2.2 Implementation
As per the Loan Agreement, the project was expected to be completed by March 31, 2006,
with the loan closing date being September 30, 2006. In a letter to the Borrower, dated
December 16, 2007, the Bank agreed to extend loan closing date to December 31, 2007.

The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) was responsible for project
oversight and coordination. A Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) within the
DGHE in the Ministry of National Education (MoNE) which was implementing the
Development of Undergraduate Education (DUE) and the Quality of Undergraduate
Education (QUE) projects was assigned with the additional task of implementing this
Project and the coordination of the GDLN center and GDLN sub-centers. The GDLN
center at the University of Indonesia at Jakarta and the three GDLN sub-centers at
Hassanuddin University in Makassar, University of Riau in Pekanbaru, and Udayana
University in Denpasar, were responsible for the implementation of the project activities
related to the center and the three sub-centers.

This project is rather straight forward in design and the amount of investment is not large
(US$2.6 million) when compared to other Bank projects. The project primarily involves
the procurement of goods and materials, provision of training, and the provision of
operational costs throughout the duration of the project. The overall number of staff
involved in the project is also fairly small. Even so, the ICR found that project
implementation was unsatisfactory. The following highlights some of the reasons for this
rating:




                                             10

Procurement of goods and materials. As stated in Bank documentation (PAD, PSR1),
there were two options to be considered in procuring the projects high technology
equipment and pedagogical tools.

Option 1: The Bank (ISG) would put in place an arrangement, whereby one of the current
World Bank vendors, Texel Corporation, currently providing a similar service at World
Bank Headquarters, would act as the GDLN vendor providing a number, but not all of the
required services. This vendor was cleared for this task by the Bank's Corporate
Procurement Office, by conducting a market study to compare with other competitors
both in terms of quality and price. Under this arrangement, implementation
responsibilities for the DLC were to be shared by the GDLN vendor, the ISG, and local
contractors.

The GDLN vendor would provide the following services:
· Procurement to include bridge financing so that equipment can be purchased and
   staged before payment is made;
· Staging to be done in combination with ISG staff; and
· Shipping of all technology related GDLN equipment.

Under this option, the Bank's ISG would provide the following services:
· In addition to Facility Guide, which contains general specifications for power, data,
   furniture, and physical layout, ISG would provide customized drawings to illustrate
   the seating arrangement of furniture, position of data and power outlets, and computer
   room layout;
· A connection diagram illustrating how all the pedagogical tools are interconnected;
· Certification of all installation work ensure that it was done to specifications
   provided;
· Certification of DLC's connection to the GDLN; and
· Training of local technicians for operation of all DLC Equipment.

The local contractor would provide the following services:
· Data wiring, including installation of outlets on the Personal Computer side and Patch
   Panel Connections to Cisco Catalyst Switch. Test end to end connectivity to ensure a
   good connection for each outlet;
· Install projectors in ceiling, screens on wall, Public Address System, and codec;
· Install specified software on each PC, and test all of these to make sure they are
   working as specified;
· Install any servers specified with appropriate OS and application software; and
· Connect all of above as specified by connection diagram above

The first PSR indicated that it was envisaged that this option would take 2 - 3 months to
implement. This included procurement of all equipment, staging at Bank, and shipping to
Country.

Option 2: The GoI could pursue the procurement of all technology related GDLN
Equipment through ICB. The difference between this option and that outlined above is


                                            11

that the Ministry would have to select a vendor that was able to provide all the services
that the Bank vendor is currently providing including the services that ISG staff would
provide during the staging process, specifically (i) simulation and (ii) configuration. The
reason for this is that it would be prohibitively expensive to fly ISG staff to the staging
site being used by the vendor.

The stated risks to this approach were that the Country and/or Organization may not be
able to find a local vendor that could perform all of the above mentioned requirements, at
prices in-line with projected costs.

To address this concern, the Bank and the Ministry would also need to agree on a
protocol to quality assurance prior to any interface with the Bank's systems. The Bank's
ISG would assist the Country and/or Organization in developing a RFP to reflect the
technical needs and specifications required to establish and operate the DLC. However,
the vendor selected by the GoI would have a contractual obligation to the Borrower to
meet the specification and pass the technical tests required to link to the GDLN. The ISG
would not be a party to the agreement.

Procurement approach selected. From the early design stage, the Bank (ISG) strongly
supported the use of option one above. ISG took the position that GDLN equipment was
highly technical and sensitive and it must be calibrated to the same specifications as the
rest of the Bank's equipment. Therefore, only ISG had the capacity to mobilize and
assure that the equipment was set up properly. From the Borrower's perspective, they felt
that they had to trust the Bank to provide good advice in this regard since they had little
experience and knowledge concerning the equipment that would be installed. Also from
the Borrower's perspective, there was no other practical choice since, early on, the Bank
made it clear that it would not enthusiastically support option two. For these reasons, the
Borrower agreed to use option one above, even though it was uncomfortable with the
decision, believing that the procurement process was outside the guidelines typically used
for Bank projects in Indonesia. It should also be noted that this special procurement
approach was reviewed and approved by the Bank's vice president for ISG at that time.

In late 2002, the Bank did an "about face", deciding that the above procurement option
would no longer be supported by the Bank as it was outside the Bank's stated guidelines
for the procurement of goods and services. This change came as a result of internal Bank
discussions wherein, the above mentioned procurement procedure again came under
question. ISG, in early January 2003, issued a memorandum indicating that the
procurement process would have to be changed to a third `recommended' approach,
wherein, the Borrower would directly contract with the vendor to provide the above
mentioned services. ISG would continue to provide technical support to this process, but
would no longer be involved with the actual contracting process as it had been before.
Again, it was the impression of the Borrower's project team that the Bank would not be
willing to actively support any other option. Given the delays that had already occurred,
the Borrower was anxious to move the project ahead as soon as possible, therefore, it
agreed.




                                             12

The revised procurement process for the technical equipment and pedagogical tools was
carried out in 2003 and the preparation of the video conference rooms in the four project
sites was completed during that same year. During this time, staff changes in ISG and the
project occurred. This resulted in some additional delays in project implementation.

Lease line vs. ISDN. During the initial design, the use of a leased telecommunications
line to support GDLN program transmission had been approved by the Borrower and the
Bank.     This approval was based on specifications and recommendations by ISG
engineers. In late 2003, the Borrower team discovered that the lease line did not have the
capacity to meet the technical requirements of GDLN connection at the four sites. A cost
effective option had to found or the project would have to be abandoned. This finding
resulted in a serious delay in the implementation of the project. In particular, it delayed
the field staging of the telecommunications equipment at each of the four project sites.

It was later found that the type of leased line needed for GDLN connectivity was not
readily available in Indonesia, and where it was available, the connectivity cost was
beyond the budget allocated within the project. After another substantial delay, ISG
finally agreed to support the use of an ISDN connection between Jakarta and Washington
DC so the field staging of the equipment could take place. It should be noted that ISDN
connections are more costly options for GDLN connectivity and, for these reasons; they
are not generally sustainable for high volume international GDLN programming in the
project DLCs. As it stands, the project could not afford large scale participation in
international GDLN programming where the cost of the ISDN connection must be born
by the project centers. The Borrower has expressed its concern about this cost element,
and plans to abandon the use of ISDN connectivity (where possible) through the Bank's
Washington Network Operations Center (NOC) and instead incorporate the use of more
cost effective IP technologies (Internet) currently available in most GDLN DLCs.

As the field staging (installation of equipment) began to take place, the technical team in
four university sites prepared to receive the equipment and support the installation
process. A schedule was developed and shared among the four sites so the work could be
coordinated in timely manner. About this time, an accident occurred in Denpasar
involving a key ISG engineer.         This engineer was no longer able to support the
implementation of the project.         This caused additional delays in the project's
implementation.

Lack of sufficient training support. According to the implementation plan, the
installation of equipment should have been followed by technical training in maintenance
and operation of the project DLC equipment; however this training did not take place at a
level that was considered effective. It is understood that this may have been partially due
to the above mentioned accident. Recent interviews with the Borrower (see consultant
report, Data and Findings from Local Interviews to Support Preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report for GDLN LIL, 2008, Annex 9) found that the
transfer of the equipment to the Borrower and the training in its operation did not happen
in a timely fashion, and in some cases it did not happen at all, even though it had been
previously agreed upon by ISG as part of the selected procurement process. The



                                             13

Borrower was able to gain access to some training through the vendor providing the
equipment.

Delayed ISG certification of equipment and connectivity (between Jakarta and
Washington). Once the sites were prepared, equipped and DLC staffs initially trained to
implement the DLCs, it was found that there were unresolved technical and
administrative issues between Jakarta and Washington (Bank headquarters) relating to
GDLN connectivity. These issues were not resolved until the last year of the extended
project period. The GDLN sites in Indonesia were finally certified by ISG in January
2007, (note that the implementation plan had called for certification take place in May
2003). This certification was critical as it was an absolute requirement of ISG before
project DLCs could connect with the Bank's NOC in Washington, a prerequisite to
receive and transmit via the GDLN. The delayed certification, until after the original
project completion date, was main factor for the failure of the project overall since all
other activities are contingent on the network being operational and certified.

Support for operations. The project was designed to provide loan financing for DLC
operating costs on a declining basis (yearly) so that at project completion, the project
would be able demonstrate self-sufficiency. This did not happen. Due to the delays
identified, the operation of certified DLCs did not commence until the extension period,
after the original project closing date, and operation was for less than twelve months.
There was no opportunity to implement a strategy of annually declining operational
funding (from loan funds), therefore, GDLN sustainability has not been demonstrated in
this pilot project as required by the Loan Agreement and PDOs/performance indicators.

Drawback of local funding by host universities. The many delays also contributed to
the management decision by the host universities to withhold counterpart funds originally
agreed upon in the Loan Agreement. This drawback of local funding over several project
years required the Borrower's project team to cancel many of the planned GDLN
activities within the project period. These cancellations affected the overall outcomes of
the project.

Other factors. There were several other factors that also affected the overall
implementation of this project. They include (a) replacement of key Bank staff during
the project; (b) replacement of key Borrower project staff including some of the rectors in
universities hosting the project sites; and (c) replacement of the Bank vendor (Textel)
with a second (Ciber) which created substantial delays in procurement process which
were outside the control of the Borrower.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring and evaluation was conducted by a team from the Central Project
Implementation Unit (CPIU) and by assigned missions from the Bank to review the
progress status of the project. Ongoing dialogue was also maintained by the Bank's task
team located in the WBCO, Jakarta. PSR/ISRs and other project monitoring
documentation have been prepared according to established Bank procedures throughout
the project's implementation period. The Bank's review missions have been adequately



                                            14

staffed and even though the project has had many long delays, the mission reviews were
for the most part, timely and candid. Most of the implementation problems were clearly
identified and discussed in the PSRs and ISRs and associated aide memoires. Sector
manager review suggested a number of project changes and interventions, but there
seems to have been little follow-up action taken by Bank management to get real results
at the operational level.

This project would have benefited from a more rigorous monitoring and evaluaion
framework at entry, including the design of more precise quantitative and qualitative
performance indicators, and improved risk review procedures. As stated above, the
project would also have benefited from more rigorous oversight by Bank management. It
is also noted that the PSR/ISR ratings were often far more positive than their own
implementation narratives would seem to support. The ICR also finds it hard to
understand why the project's ultra-long implementation delays and well documented
Borrower concerns were allowed to go on without strong intervention by Bank
management.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The ICR found no safeguard variances to note, however there were two fiduciary issues
identified during the 2006 financial review (see Financial Review of Global Development
Learning Network Project: January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006, ICR Annex 9). These
include:

· Variances computed for expenditures budgeted vs. actual expenses incurred during
    the implemented period, were not adequately analyzed for identifying and
    documenting the reasons for the variances. Identifying and documenting material
    reasons for variances would have assisted the project to exercise better control over
    budgeted expenditures; and
· Some financial reports prescribed by the Bank's Disbursement Letter were not
    prepared by the Project, and inconsistencies were observed in the information that
    was reported in the various reports. The Project should have ensured that all reporting
    was provided in prescribed formats while preparing the FMRs for submission to the
    World Bank.

The ICR did find that:
· Bank funds were used for the purposes intended;
· Sufficient and accurate supporting documents were maintained by the project for the
    SOE disbursements;
· Expenditures submitted on SOEs were eligible for financing under the loan; and
· The Project had adequate accounting and internal control systems to support the
    accurate preparation of SOEs for withdrawal of loan proceeds

All financial audits were completed as required with no major comments or issues
noted.




                                            15

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The potential for sustainability and further growth in GDLN services beyond project
completion seems possible and perhaps promising. This finding is based on the fact that
the GDLN project has joined (late 2007) with INHERENT, Indonesia's national
university communication network. Although this network is new and yet to be fully
developed nationwide, it is growing and as stated above, there is every reason to assume
that it will be come fully established in the near future. Once established, INHERENT
will link the various universities into a network that can share information, instructional
content and programming both within the campuses and at a distance. The ICR found that
the collaboration between GDLN and INHERENT at the DLC level has been strongest in
the University of Indonesia, Jakarta and Udayana University, Bali. The collaboration is
still being established at the other two universities, UNHAS and UNRI. Required budgets
for GDLN and INHERENT, including operating cost, connectivity, and maintenance
have been included as part of the university budget at UI, UNUD, and UNHAS. UNRI
has yet to be fully budgeted.

Although this development is certainly a positive step, the ICR would argue that the
potential of this relationship has yet to be fully realized. The emerging INHERENT
network provides the project DLCs with an obvious opportunity, but only the future will
tell if this relationship will mature to the point where the project DLCs will become
viable operations, with well trained staff, strong access to appropriate content and
programming, good facility utilization and an acceptable level of sustainability.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The ICR found that the PDOs were relevant to the intent of the project concept
discussions and the Loan Agreement.

The project design, PDOs, and performance indicators, were based on the assumption
that the DLCs will attempt to reach some acceptable level of self sufficiency through a
business plan approach resulting in income generation from the sale of services and
products. This is a standard approach with other GDLN projects in the EAP region,
however, in the case of Indonesia, the design seems less relevant. The ICR found that the
host universities have always considered the project DLCs to support units to their
academic departments, and that they intend to focus their programming of the project
DLCs on academics (with the support of INHERENT, a university network) rather than
on commercial programming as expected in the project design. The possibility for
commercial programming is accepted, but not given priority in the university
environment.

This understanding raises a question about the project design's expectations for
sustainability. With the above understanding, it seems reasonable to assume that the
potential for any type of income generation, from outside sources, may be insufficient to



                                             16

sustain the project DLCs. It is more likely that the project DLCs will be integrated into
each university as a communications/ICT/media unit with connectivity through LANs
and the INHERENT network to support the academic departments of each university and
will, in the end, receive most, if not all, of their funding from those host universities, not
from outside sources.

The project design also assumed that there would be a high utilization of international
GDLN content as a primary input to the DLCs program offerings. This has not been the
case and, if one understands the academic focus of these DLCs, it seems likely that
international content may not be the primary content of these DLCs in the future.

There are also three other compelling reasons to support this assumption. Since almost
all of the international GDLN programming is provided in English, the project DLCs may
find that it is less useful than local programming which can be custom designed and
provided in Bahasa Indonesian. This may be a particular concern in the three DLCs
located outside the Jarkarta area. In addition, local program content may be obtained at
much lower costs from other academic institutions associated with the INHERENT
network. International content may only be used as it relates to the universities academic
needs and affordability. In addition, since most of the current GDLN content is not
course based, but instead is comprised of short, non-credit seminars and workshops, the
project DLCs may find that they do not have a wide audience for such programming
within their host institutions and outside service areas.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
It has been stated that during project implementation, there were significant problems
with equipment procurement, installation, commissioning and certification; coupled with
difficulties in securing sufficient bandwidth. These problems have combined to cause
profound delays in project implementation. There are obvious shortcomings in the
capacity of these DLCs. All of the projects DLCs have a minimum number of highly
qualified and trained staff. They also currently have low facility utilization rates, limited
income generation, and a lack of available content to support full facility utilization.
Clearly, from the perspective of the Loan Agreement, the PDO's were not fully achieved
within the project implementation period. This failure to achieve expected outcomes
within the project period can be attributed mainly to the failure to achieve performance
indicator 1, since without a certified operational network most of the other activities
could not take place:

Performance Indicator 1: Distance Learning Center GDLN certification will be
completed successfully by May 2003.

· The ICR found that certification was completed in January 2007, in the extension
    period and two years after the original scheduled project completion date.

Performance Indicator 2: Business plans reviewed bi-annually and modified to reflect
progress and newly identified opportunities by May, of each year.




                                               17

· Since the network was not operational until January 2007, the business plans were not
    prepared until May 2007, when a partial plan was made available. After project
    completion, a full business plan was prepared. There were no significant annual
    reviews of these plans during the project period,

Performance Indicator 3: Financial management systems were put in operation and
effective by May 2003.

· ICR found that financial management systems were put into place on or before, May
    3, 2003, however there were some shortcomings as noted in Section 2.4.

Performance Indicator 4: Monitoring and assessment systems were implemented
producing quality input to bi-annual business plan reviews and Project management
reviews by May of each year beginning 2004.

· The ICR found that monitoring and evaluation activities were conducted, however the
    baseline data and original review criteria was less than satisfactory. Furthermore, the
    performance indicators did not provide an adequate framework for effectively
    monitoring the progress of the project. In some of these indicators, the targets were
    either too imprecise to measure (i.e., PI5 and PI6 which use terms such as "trends"),
    or were somewhat irrelevant to the expected outcomes of the project (i.e., PI 6 which
    talks about the project DLCs becoming `self-sustaining' although they are established
    as units of their host universities). In the PSRs and ISRs, issues were noted and
    discussed, but there was a marked absence of effective mitigation by Bank and
    Borrower project teams and management.

Performance Indicator 5: There is evidence of a trend that reflects an increase in the
number of development focused GDLN learning products (including: courses; training
sessions; seminars; debates; awareness campaigns; and national, global and local
dialogues on development issues) subscribed to by public and private professionals.
Targets included a planned service output of 1,000 training days in 2004, 2,500 training
days in 2005, and 3,225 training days in 2006.

Although difficult to estimate due to inadequate data collection, estimates suggest that
there were less than 1000 total training days (about 133 three-hour programs with an
average of 20 participants in each program) provided during the entire project
implementation period. Optimistic estimates suggest that only about 15% of planned
performance has been realized during the project. The ICR has found Borrower estimates
with even lower levels of estimated productivity (about 250 training days delivered).
After the project close, the utilization of the GDLN-INHERENT network has continued
to expand.

It was reported that, in the first quarter of 2008, there were 36 video conferences
involving 852 connections to higher education institutions, (1720 connection hours), with
an average of 24 locations connected in each video conference. Video conferences were
conducted not only via in-country nodes but also international connections through the



                                             18

GDLN gateway at the University of Indonesia, to the United States of America, Australia,
and Thailand.     The ICR notes that these large numbers likely reflect the overall
INHERENT operation, not just the project DLCs, which do not have the technical or
pedagogical capacity to support the stated level of connectivity.

Performance Indicator 6: There is evidence of a trend that reflects a clear progression
towards Distance Learning Centers becoming self-sustaining.

As a method to demonstrate a trend toward self-sufficiency, a decreasing operational
budget was agreed to by the host universities as part of the project design. Documentation
of this agreement may be found in the Letter of Commitment as follows:

......Each university commits to allocate its self-generated fund (DIKS or DRK) for the
GLDN operation (within their university environment) for 3 years beginning in 2002. The
committed fund will be allocated at 0%, 25%, and 50% of the connectivity cost for the
first, second, and third year of implementation. In addition, personnel expenditures will
be supported by this fund according to the figures proposed in the business plan
submitted by each university. The aforementioned fund will be transferred to the
Center/Sub-Centers special account prior to each fiscal year contract.........

This statement of agreement was issued in May 2002, by each university, but it was not
renewed in subsequent years. From the universities' perspective, the project DLCs were
not performing according to the plan and hence the allocated budget was not justified.
The withholding of these funds caused many operational difficulties in all of the project
sites.

· There were no program offerings in 2004 or 2005 and only some local programs in
    2006. While this is understandable given the context that the network was not
    certified to operate until January 2007, the ICR finds that there is no trend toward
    self-sustainability other than increased access to funding from host universities during
    the last year and after project completion. It is understood that some might want to
    argue that the fact that the project DLCs were included in the university budgets
    means that they are sustainable. If this argument is accepted, the ICR would question
    why the performance indicator and the plan for a decreasing allocation of operational
    funds were included in the project design.

Performance Indicator 7: Quality and relevance of courses offered by the GDLN is
evaluated satisfactory or better by participants ­ 75% of participants in 2004, 80% of
participants in 2005, and 85% of participants in 2006.

Since the network was not operational until January 2007, ICR found that that there were
no program offerings in 2004 or 2005. In 2006 there were some local programs offered
through DLC and INHERENT linkeage but the ICR found no record of participant
evaluations.




                                             19

Performance Indicator 8: Content provided by national and international partners will
amount to 45% of total in 2004, 55% of total in 2005, and 65% of total in 2006.

· ICR found that no significant content was provided in 2004 or 2005 from any source,
    and in 2006, the project DLCs were involved in only a small effort with connections
    to three countries. Most content during this period was provided through national
    sources if at all, since there was no authorized connectivity with GDLN until the sites
    were certified in January 2007. Since the certification date, project DLCs have been
    involved in programs with Australia, Sri Lanka, USA, Japan, Philippines, Vietnam,
    Thailand, Timor Leste, Turkey, Pakistan and Nepal. Although there is a positive
    trend noted above, currently there is less than 20% facility utilization rate on the
    average in these project DLCs.

Performance Indicator 9: The project DLC's facility utilization rates will increase to
30% in 2004, 45% in 2005, and 55% in 2006.

· Given that the network was not certified until January 2007, the facilities could not be
    formally utilized as reflected in the average facility utilization rate in 2004 and 2005
    of less than 5%, and less than 10% in 2006. Twelve months after certification the
    utilization rate had doubled to around 20%, and, as the project DLCs become more
    integrated with the INHERENT network and gain more experience with the GDLN,
    there is reason to assume that their utilization rates will increase. However, regional
    experience suggests that it may be difficult for the project DLCs to increase their
    facility utilization rates above 50% on the average. Most GDLN DLCs in the region
    continue to have even lower average facility utilization rates.

3.3 Efficiency
Baseline and comparative data was not collected or available on this pilot project. The
unique differences between the Indonesia GDLN pilot and other existing GDLN DLCs
made cost comparisons unproductive as well. For this reason no quantitative analysis of
efficiency was attempted.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

When the PDOs and the associated performance indicators are reviewed to determine the
level of project success, it can be said that the four project DLCs were established and
were marginally operational at project completion, but there was little time to
demonstrate the viability of those DLCs in any of the ways required by the Loan
Agreement/PAD. If one looks at the performance indicators, it is evident that most were
not met as required by the Loan Agreement/PAD. Some were totally abandoned, while
others were accomplished with delays.

Regarding overall project outcomes, the project was designed as pilot that would
demonstrate the use of the GDLN as a viable tool to support development priorities in
Indonesia, however, the long delays and other issues noted in the ICR suggest that the



                                             20

original project design cannot be considered viable as a future model for replication. As
seen in the findings of this ICR, the procurement method and technology selected by the
Bank was very much below optimal. The GOI has learned from these lessons and
procured equipment competitively from the market and was able to select more up to date
technologies. Experience has also been gained through the assistance of the GDLN
which assisted GOI with the design of their own distance learning network through
video-conferencing and internet, expanding access to information and sharing
information both nationally and internationally.

Regarding quality at entry. As stated above, the project had significant design flaws that
compromised the quality of project outcomes. Most notably, the design required the use
of a commercial approach whereby self-sustainability would be gained from the use of
well structured business plans, annual reviews of those plans, and significant revenues
earned from non-institutional sources. In the project these plans and reviews were
intended to provide baseline data for M&E. Unfortunately, the business plans for the
project DLCs were not fully prepared until during and after the last year of operation,
thus they were not reviewed during the project implementation period. Furthermore,
when one looks at the priorities of the project's host universities and their commitment to
INHERENT, it seems obvious that the host universities intend to use the four project
DLCs as support units for academic programming within and between their respective
universities. This is understandable, but if they are successful in that effort, they may not
have the capacity to support a significant amount of income-generating, commercial
programming from outside sources. In addition, when one understands that these project
DLCs currently have large participant bases of non-English speakers and that GDLN
programming is currently provided primarily in English, these views are further
reinforced.

The project design also featured an element whereby operational costs would be reduced
on a yearly basis to demonstrate the project's potential for sustainability. In this activity,
it was assumed that income generation, from outside commercial sources, would, on an
increasing basis, make up for the withheld loan funds. The ICR found that this design
element was never implemented and that the full operational costs of these DLCs were
integrated into the budgets of the host universities. This further reinforces the non-
commercial argument presented in the previous paragraphs.

Regarding project preparation, the ICR found that the project teams did not fully assess
and address the technical procurement approach that was needed in the project. The
Borrower expressed concerns about the selected approach, but was given only one other
seemingly impractical choice (to use traditional Bank procedures without sufficient
support from ISG). These concerns were well documented by the Bank's task manager
and through the early PSRs.

Within the next year ISG again changed course and required that the Borrower accept a
different procurement approach. Even after the second procurement approach was
implemented, long delays and lack of follow through by the venders and ISG still
plagued the project (i.e. lack of technical training provision and equipment certification).



                                              21

These delays also forced long disbursement delays and the virtual collapse of the
project's overall implementation plan, with many performance indicator targets being
missed or abandoned. Although the DLCs were eventually established and equipped, the
equipment and connectivity to GDLN via Washington were not certified for operation by
ISG until January 2007. This can be contrasted with the original project implementation
plan wherein the target for certification was May 2003.

Furthermore, the critical plan to connect Jakarta and Washington by lease line was not
properly researched by the Bank's TA team, ISG, resulting in the provision of poor
advice given to the Borrower and additional project delays. This resulted in more
uncomfortable relations between the Borrower and the Bank. The Borrower was, in the
end, forced to accept the use of an ISDN connection which was never intended in the
project design as it is prohibitive in cost (outside the budget) and may, in the end, limit
the amount of GDLN programming that is brought into the project DLCs from
international sources. As a response to concern, the Borrower has decided to use IP
technologies for future connections with INHERENT and its GDLN partners. This will
give the project DLCs the capability of transmitting at substantially higher frequency (2-4
mps vs. 360 kps.) which provides better picture quality, and to skip future requirements
to connect through Washington (Bank NOC) for its GDLN connectivity.

It must be said that all of these concerns relate to the project's overall failure to reach
many of the expected project outcomes and, as a pilot project, to demonstrate the viability
the GDLN as a tool to support the development agenda as noted in the Bank's CAS. For
these reasons, the ICR rated the project's quality at entry to be unsatisfactory.

Regarding project implementation, there were profound delays in project implementation
and disbursement. Counterpart funds were withheld because the host universities were
understandably frustrated with the slow implementation progress. In the end, the quality
of the equipment procured for the project DLCs was questioned by the Borrower which
stated that it did not consider the equipment to be the latest available and state-of-the-art,
a fundamental requirement in PDO1.

The ICR did find that most of the project's implementation issues were adequately
documented in the PSRs, ISRs, and Aid Memoires left by the Supervision Missions. The
long delays without Bank intervention also suggest that monitoring and evaluation was
not effectively implemented by the Bank or the Borrower. The ICR also found that risk
mitigation was not effectively implemented, even though Bank documentation clearly
describes and accurately estimates those risks. Finally Bank and Borrower management
did not aggressively move to address these problems in a timely fashion. Some of the
delays were extraordinarily long (years).     The ICR rates project implementation to be
unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
The project DLCs have affiliated with the INHERENT network and are able to use both
the INHERENT network and, with the limitations stated above, the GDLN to support
their future programs. Although the current level of staff training is considered less than



                                             22

satisfactory, future operations should allow for the provision of training and the use of
new and lower cost technologies such as IP. As INHERENT grows in Indonesia, there is
reason to assume that the project DLCs will have the opportunity to become more
integrated with the other universities in the nation. This is a major goal of the host
universities and must be seen as a positive outcome of the project. If the combined
project DLCs/INHERENT network morph into the GDLN Indonesia Network, as has
recently been suggested, there will be more potential that other universities can
effectively use GDLN programming to support development in Indonesia. None of these
potential outcomes were planned in the project, but they must be seen as potential
unexpected outcomes that may help negate the obvious shortcomings of the project as
originally agreed upon in the Loan Agreement.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The potential programming provided through the four project DLCs may have an impact
on poverty, gender and social development. This potential can be seen in recent GDLN
programming in the EAP region where, AIDS, avian flu, malaria, forest governance,
youth governance, and other development topics have been featured within the past year.
In addition, with the project DLCs' recent affiliation with the INHERENT network, it
should have access to other forms of development programming offered in local
languages and with a specific focus on the current issues of civil society in Indonesia.
The actual impact that these program opportunities have is yet to be demonstrated by any
of the project DLCs. To date, there have been only a few related programs offered to
participants outside the universities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The introduction of the project DLCs within their host universities provides them with a
powerful tool and significant potential to support future distance learning and outreach
programming.      It gives those universities access to other national and international
sources of learning and information and it provides the potential for more interaction by
the university with local NGOs, businesses and industries. However, the ICR notes that
the use to which these DLCs will be put is yet to be fully determined or demonstrated. If
the DLC's technology is not up-to-date, maintained and/or upgrades as required, and if
the DLC staffs are not well trained and managed, the DLCs will quickly lose their
potential for institutional change/strengthening.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were significant unintended outcomes. The GOI was able to draw lessons from the
Bank funded project which assisted their development of the INHERENT network
covering 151 centers throughout Indonesia. With this network in combination with
GDLN as its global gateway, there is high likelihood of achieving the original PDO of (i)
expanding the access to information on development, through the strengthening of the
capacity of decision makers in the public and private sectors and the improvement of
regional dialogue on policy-related issues, and (ii) providing the latest communication
technology for quality distance learning and information exchange between institutions in
Indonesia and regional and global network distance learning networks. It should be noted
that the PDO is likely to be achieved 4 to 5 years after the completion of the Bank project.



                                             23

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A stakeholder workshop was held in March 2001, during early project preparation.
Apparently the workshop was held to allow more comprehensive input into the
development of business models for each project DLC. Based on the questionnaires
distributed to the participants, the following market was identified as promising GDLN
facilities users:

a) University: regular students as well as part time employed students;
b) Industries: oil and mining, manufacturing, renewable energy, financial industries,
SMEs, etc.
c) Businesses: stock exchange, banking, tourism, etc.
d) Government: all ministries and agencies at the central government, and the regional
governments;
e) Non governmental organizations.

There were no other significant findings from this workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The PAD presented a satisfactory assessment of risk; however the mitigation strategies,
although reasonable in their presentation, were found to be, for the most part,
unsatisfactory in their implementation (Section 2.1). The mitigation strategies were not
fully implemented and the result was that many of the stated risks that have become
project realities. The project delays certainly contributed to these shortcomings, but the
stated risks should have been more effectively addressed early on as they became
apparent problems within the project, and even later when there were opportunities to
assess the projects progress and to adjust the project design and implementation plan.

Of particular importance, the project was designed as a pilot to demonstrate the viability
of the GDLN as a tool to support the development priorities of the nation. The wrong
application of the procurement method and selection of the technology has led to the
unsatisfactory performance of the project during the project period. However, the GOI
has learned these lessons and used competitive procurement methods and appropriate
technology for its own funded INHERENT network to demonstrate the viability of using
VCs and internet as a tool for expanding access to information national as well as
globally for national and international stakeholders.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance must be rated as less than satisfactory during the lending phase
of the project. After the Loan Agreement was signed, it is evident that the Bank team did



                                             24

not reach a full consensus with the Borrower regarding the procurement process and the
technical specifications for the equipment required in the project. This lack of consensus
was borne out in later discussions, and was documented by PSR/ISRs and later Borrower
documentation.     These concerns proved to be a major factor in subsequent delays,
discomfort in later Bank-Borrower discussions, and a required extension of the closing
date.

The ICR also must add that Bank management did not provide sufficient oversight to the
design and preparation of this project. The Bank's management should have stepped in to
make sure that the Borrower understood and was convinced that the proposed
procurement process would work and that it was acceptable under both the Bank's and
Borrower's procurement guidelines. The fact that the process was later abandoned by the
Bank for those stated reasons seems to supports the Borrower's original concerns.

The Bank took on the role of providing TA to support the design of the project DLCs.
This was done in most if not all of the other DLCs in EAP. In this project the Bank did
not provide accurate and professional technical advice regarding the selection and use of
the leased tie line from Jakarta and Washington, a key technical requirement for the
operation of the project DLCs. This inaccurate information resulted in the Borrower
having to abandon the use of the tie line approach because it was found to be both too
low in capacity to serve the needs of the project; and was not available to all of the
project DLCs.     The Borrower then had to accept the use of the ISDN connection
approach, a cost prohibitive solution that was outside the project's approved budgets.
After project completion, the Borrower has used its own funds to more fully equip its
DLCs to use lower cost IP technology as an alternative to the use of the ISDN technology.

It is also noted that, the project design was weak in a number of areas and based on key
assumptions that proved to be irrelevant to the needs of this project. In addition, the
performance indicators were not well prepared to effectively monitor the performance of
the project and there was no attempt by the Bank to retrofit the design to make them more
appropriate. (Sections 3.1 and 3.4).

During project implementation, the Bank also failed to provide all of the agreed upon
training for operation and maintenance of the technical equipment. As a recourse to this
situation, some additional training was secured from the Borrower's equipment vender.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Fiduciary and safeguards policies were effectively monitored and evaluated during
project supervision. There were 10 formal supervision activities and their findings are
recorded in PSRs or ISRs accordingly. It is recognized that this project was difficult to
supervise. The long delays and lack of progress over time made it difficult to maintain a
timely review process. A review of the early PSRs reveal that the project supervision
teams were generally well staffed and were fully aware of the risks associated with this
project and the issues and shortcomings associated with the project's implementation.



                                             25

The early PSRs also documented the important concerns of the Borrower regarding the
viability of the project implementation plan/design. These project documents encouraged
substantial changes in the project design and implementation plan (see PSR 1), however,
no formal changes were ever made. Instead the supervision teams continued to try to
adjust the performance indicators and implementation plan to bring the project to full
completion. In doing so, however these teams did not effectively address the major
issues that that had been documented so well in the PSR/ISRs. Management should have
stepped in early to change the project design in 2003 and aggressively addressed the
reasons for the long delays and poor implementation progress. By 2005, the equipment
had been procured and installed, there was little that could be done except to pressure
ISG to install and certify the center to become operational. At the same time, the task
team made significant efforts to develop linkages so that the PDO may be reached
through a combined GDLN and GOI-funded INHERENT approach.

The ICR also found that the supervision teams made a significant effort to support the
full implementation of the project through extensive dialogue with the Borrower. It was
also found that the ratings given within the PSR/ISRs were inconsistent and probably too
high for the reality of the project's implementation. This situation was also noted by the
project team leader in the later ISR6.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The project design and preparation was found to be less than satisfactory for a number of
reasons stated above. This finding is reinforced by the Borrower which also considers it
to be so (see Borrower's comments below).

During project implementation, the Bank's supervision team did recognize the primary
issues and shortcomings of the project and documented those concerns in the PSRs and
ISRs. Even so, the ICR found that Bank management and project team follow-up was
not quick to respond, or sufficient in action, to adequately address the identified issues.
This resulted in limited changes in the project approach and delays that went far beyond
what might be considered acceptable and typical in any Bank project, much less in a
small and relatively less complex project such as this one. As a result, there was limited
disbursement during the first four years of the project and the PDOs and performance
indicators/targets were not substantially met. Most concerning is the finding that bad
advice and slow delivery of agreed upon services by ISG may have been at least partially
responsible for some of the incurred project implementation delays.

For these and the other reasons documented in this ICR, it was found that the Bank's
project teams from design to implementation should bear significant responsibility for the
failures of this project. From this viewpoint, the ICR rated the overall performance of the
Bank as unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Borrower Performance


                                            26

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower, early on, expressed concerns about the project design and implementation
plan but found that there were few, if any practical options to the plan presented by the
Bank's technical team. It reluctantly accepted the Bank's recommended procurement,
staging and simulation approach.        Later, the approach was abandoned for second
approach which, again, failed to serve the project well. During this and later project
periods, the PPIU actively sought to find ways to work around its problems with the
procurement approach. The PPIU demonstrated flexibility and the ability continue to
develop the project even when resources were not adequate and Bank and university
actions negatively affected project implementation (i.e., lack of follow-through on
training, bad advice regarding the use of the tie-line, the necessity to agree to use ISDN
connections, extraordinary delays in equipment and connection certification, etc.) In the
end, the PPIU was finally able to establish and staff operational DLCs at all project sites,
and was able to obtain some training though its vender. Even though the sites do not yet
meet the expected outcomes of the project, they do stand as an accomplishment, and the
Borrower should be commended for that achievement in light the long delays and
problems incurred during project implementation. Also, after project completion, the
Borrower has continued to improve the potential of these project DLCs in ways that are
certainly positive. The merging of the project DLCs with the INHERENT network is an
example of this continued effort to make the project DLCs viable within the host
universities. .

The host universities did withhold substantial counterpart funds that were agreed upon in
the Loan Agreement, but there are extenuating circumstances in that the project had little
disbursement for almost four years and there was a growing concern by these universities
that the project might fail. Therefore, they chose to withhold some funding to reduce the
financial risk to their institutions. Once the project implementation began to pick back up
(2006 through 2007), the Borrower began to flow counterpart funds to the project again.
It was also found that in 2003 the Borrower made an effort to adhere to the project
requirement that operational funds be provided on a decreasing basis (annually) so that
the project would be able to demonstrate the potential for self-sustainability from
resources earned from outside sources. During the subsequent years this effort was
abandoned. It is assumed that this came as a result of the project delays and lack of
disbursement; the host universities decided that this element of the project was not
implementable. Some of the host universities also witnessed a change of rectors. These
senior staff changes resulted in some loss of direction as the PPIU made adjustments to
support new management priorities and styles. The ICR also found that the Borrower's
project teams suffered somewhat from staff changes during project implementation and a
severe lack of technical and GDLN/DLC management training.

For the most part, project documentation and adherence to the safeguard and fiduciary
requirements of the project were satisfactory.        In addition, the ICR found that the
Borrower actively participated in M&E and was responsive to Bank concerns to the
extent possible considering the state of project implementation. The ICR also found that




                                              27

many of the negative factors affecting this project were beyond the control of the PPIU
and the Borrower.

The ICR did note that the Borrower should have formally (and more forcefully) raised its
specific and general concerns about the poor implementation progress of the project with
senior Bank management. If that had been done in a timely manner, those actions might
have stimulated more action from Bank management. This may have resulted in more
effective project implementation and better overall outcomes. It is the opinion of the ICR
that this project was an early on candidate for a redesign, reappraisal, or cancellation.

Due to the Bank's lack of performance in this project and the finding that many of the
factors that negatively impacted the project were beyond the control of the Borrower's
implementation team, the ICR found that Borrower performance was Moderately
Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: N/A

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: N/A

6. Lessons Learned

· The Bank should put clients in the driver's seat when designing projects. Client's
    concerns were obviously unheeded during the design stage which led to the
    subsequent mismatch between technology chosen by the ISG and country's
    technology environment. The idea of one-size-fits-all for the entire world, even for
    technology, did not work.
· The Bank should recognize that when it enters exceptional relationships (outside
    typical Bank/client operations) with clients, special care should be taken to fully
    document all agreements with the client, insure full consensus of those agreements,
    insure absolute control over the quality of service delivery, and the full provision of
    the agreed upon services. Under such circumstances, the Bank takes on more
    responsibility for direct project implementation and for this reason; it must bear more
    responsibility for failures that may occur during that implementation process.
· In projects such as this, Bank management should closely monitor the implementation
    of the project and should move as quickly as possible to re-structure and re-design the
    project when it was evident that the original design did not work. Multi-year delays
    should not be considered acceptable and if necessary, such delays should be reason
    enough to call for a redesign, re-appraisal, or cancellation of the project;
· University based GDLN DLCs have different organizational philosophies and needs
    than more commercially focused DLCs in NGOs or WBCOs. Thus, the project
    designs to support the establishment of such DLCs should be adapted to reflect these
    differences. The self sustainability and revenue generation may or may not be a
    priority in GDLN affiliated DLCs that are university based.




                                             28

· Consensus building is critical to effective project design, preparation and
    implementation;
· In all GDLN projects, training and content development/acquisition is critical to
    project success;
· Critical elements in GDLN operation, such as solutions for connectivity between
    Washington and the DLC require special care and consideration, including its
    practical application, cost, and availability;
· For reasons of cost, GDLN should plan to distribute most if not all of its future
    programming through IP connectivity if available;
· When host universities change rectors or other key decision-makers, delays can be
    expected since university objectives and programs may be reviewed and priorities
    adjusted to reflect the new administrations views;
· There are advantages in cost effectiveness and efficiency when several similar
    projects are funded concurrently, with similar PDOs and performance indicators, and
    managed as a single program rather than as separate projects. This project is the only
    one in EAP where this was done;
· The     establishment     of    a   strongly    staffed, and  well    managed    central
    project coordination unit (CPCU) must be considered a key contributing factor to the
    successful implementation of any project with widely disbursed operations;
· If there are major procurement packages that might delay project implementation, it
    may be better to complete the procurement before loan effectiveness (using the
    governments own budget) or early during project effectiveness. This will require as
    much preparation as possible to be done during project appraisal (e.g. obtaining
    clearance for ToR, shortlist etc);
· The use of Bank provided technical services including the prescription of technical
    equipment to be procured, methods of procurement, and training may be problematic
    in some project applications since the Bank's direct provision of such services may
    not be in-line with previously established and agreed upon Bank-Borrower
    guidelines. Such inconsistencies in Bank policies and actions may lead to confusion
    and conflict between the Bank and Borrower.
· The joining of national and international networks can strengthen the potential
    sustainability of individual distance learning centers and provide increased access to
    programming.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
ICR comments on issues raised by the Borrower were provided in the above sections as
each issue was discussed.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                              29

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal
         Components             Estimate (USD       Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                   millions)       Estimate (USD)      Appraisal

ESTABLISHING FOUR
GDLN DLCS                               1.30         583,549.10           45%

SUPPORT FOR
OPERATION OF GDLN                       1.32         850,781.80           64%
DLCS



          Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
           Total Project Costs          2.62       1,434,330.90           55%
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.03          26,600.00           89%
   Total Financing Required             2.65       1,460,930.60           55%




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Late
         Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate                Percentage
                                  Cofinancing      (USD      st Estimate of Appraisal
                                                  millions)     (USD)

Borrower                                       0.98         161,346.00 16%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                 2.66         1,460,930.60 55%




                                          30

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: The original project closing date was December 31, 2006; at that time
none of the project DLCs were certified for GDLN operation by ISG. This happened on
January 9, 2007, when ISG finally certified the equipment and connectivity for GDLN
operation. This certification enabled full GDLN connectivity and DLC operation.

At project completion the project DLCs had a facility utilization rate of about 20% on the
average. The DLCs were able to operate for less than one year before project completion.
During that time, it is estimated that less than 300 person days of training services were
actually provided. This measure of productivity is far below the project duration target of
6,725 person days of training. The Borrower does have expectations that the utilization
rates will increase for all project DLCs. This is due to the previously mentioned merger
of the project DLCs with the university network in Indonesia (INHERENT). The extent
to which the project DLCs will be active in the international GDLN has yet to be
demonstrated, however.

Component 2: The funding for the operational costs of the DLCs and the PPIU were
included under Component 2. The funds were not fully disbursed due to the long delays
in the project and the limited duration of operations that the project DLCs were able to
provide during the lifetime of the project. See Annex 1(a) for the final disbursement
estimates for this Component.




                                             31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Due to the lack of baseline data and the type and size of this project, no economic and
financial analysis was undertaken.




                                            32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                        Title                 Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Jerry G. Strudwick        Task Team Leader/Senior
                          Educator                         EASHD Task Team Leader

                                                                    Tech. Assistance
                                                                    Support/Procurement/

Various ISG specialists                                             Installation/Staging/

Under the management of                                             Simulation/

Le Ann Vu                 Manager, ISG                     ISGVP    Certification/
                                                                    Technical Training/
Supervision/ICR
Novira Kusdarti Asra      Financial Management Specialist EAPCO
Faustinus Marius Ravindra
Corea                     E T Consultant                  EAPVP

William Hardi             Consultant                      EAPCO
Ratna Kesuma              Operations Officer              EASHD
Colin David Lonergan      GDLN Coordinator                EAPVP
Maria Ivia Martinez       Consultant                      EAPVP
Rimta K. Silangit         Liaison Officer                 EAPVP
Jerry G. Strudwick        Sr Education Specialist         HDNED
Sonya Woo                 GDLN Coordinator                EAPVP

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands
                                    No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       2                        7.97
  FY02                                     16                        53.25
  FY03                                       1                        4.51
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                0.00
  FY08                                                                0.00
                        Total:             19                        65.73




                                         33

Supervision/ICR
 FY01                                0.00
 FY02                                0.00
 FY03                         6     28.52
 FY04                         6     25.90
 FY05                         7     52.03
 FY06                        17     48.84
 FY07                        15     32.60
 FY08                        13     49.06

                  Total:     64    236.95




                           34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
None available




                                    35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
The ICR found no workshop report, minutes or statement of results for the early
stakeholder workshop held.




                                        36

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The Borrower provided a full ICR, but did not provide a summary for inclusion into this
Annex. The full version is documented in Annex 9 and is available in the project files.

In reviewing the Borrower's ICR, the ICR found that the Borrower supported many of
the findings of this ICR, namely the stated concerns of the Borrower, the reasons for poor
project design, the reasons for poor project implementation and the overall shortcomings
of the project. However, the Borrower's ICR did rate a number of project elements from
moderately satisfactory to fully satisfactory.       The Borrower agrees that the project
suffered from long delays and poor implementation, and that it did not meet the expected
outcomes stated in the PDOs, but argues that the fact that project DLCs have been
integrated into the INHERENT network demonstrates that the project DLCs are now
successful and viable. This is not the view of the ICR which allows for the possibility
that, in the future, the success and viability of the project DLCs may be demonstrated, but
would argue that to date, the project has not been successful in demonstrating that viability.




                                               37

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                     38

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
  · PSR/ISRs 1 through 10
  · Aide Memoires (Mission)
  · GDLN LIL PAD
  · GDLN LIL Loan Agreement
  · Loan Extension Agreement
  · Report ­ Financial Management Review, November 29, 2007
  · ICR Consultant Report, January 2008
  · Government ICR ­ April 7, 2008




                                     39

             95°                     100°                   105°                    110°                115°                 120°                 125°      This map was produced by                         INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                            the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                            World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                            colors, denominations and            GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                            any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                            on this map do not imply, on           LEARNING NETWORK
                                                                                                                                                            the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the                     PROJECT PROVINCES
          15°                                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                            or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                            acceptance of such                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                           boundaries.                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                  MYANMAR
                                                                       VIETNAM                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                  PHILIPPINES                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
          10°                                                                                                                                                                           10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                             THAILAND                                                                                          Sulu
                                                                                                                               Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          135°                 140°



           Banda Aceh                                                             Y
          5°                                              A       L      A
                                                                                                  BRUNEI                                                                                                                                     5°
                     1                                                                  S
                                 Medan             M                 Natuna                                                                                   Talaud
                                                                     Besar                    I                                        Celebes                   Is.
                                                                                                                     Tarakan                                                              PACIFIC            OCEAN
                    Pematangsiantar                                                               A                                      Sea
           Simeulue                                                                                                                              24
                                   2                                  19                                                                                                   Morotai
                                                          SINGAPORE                                          23                            Manado
                      Nias                     Pekanbaru    Tanjungpinang                                                              25               Ternate          Halmahera
          0°                                                                                                                                                                             Waigeo
                          M                     3                                           KALIMANTAN                                    Gorontalo
                                                              Lingga   Pontianak                                                26                                                                                                           0°
                           entawai                                                     20
                                Padang                                                                             Samarinda                                                                     Manokwari
                                                                                                                               Palu                       30                                                    Biak
                                                                                                                                                                                            Sorong
                                 Siberut  4         5    Jambi                                                    Balikpapan                 Peleng
                                                                   Bangka                         21                                                                  Obi

                                             SUMATERA               Pangkalpinang       Palangkaraya                      SULAWESI                                                     Misool    32        Yapen                Jayapura
                                                                                                                  Mamuju                          Sula Is.               Ceram
                                    Is.                      Palembang9
                                                6                            Belitung                     22                                                                  Amahai      Fakfak                   IRIAN JAYA
                                                             7                                                           27
                                                                                            Bandjarmasin                      28    29   Kendari          Buru                                                      (PAPUA)
                                         Bengkulu                                                                                                                                                               33
                                                                                                                      Parepare                                 Ambon                                                   Puncak Jaya
                                                              8                                                                                                                                             Timika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (5030 m)
          5°                                                                                                                               Muna                                                  Kai
                                         Enggano        Bandar                       Java Sea                      Makassar
                                                       Lampung      11JAKARTA                                                             Baubau                    Banda           31           Is.

            0       200    400 Kilometers                  Serang                                                                                                     Sea                             Aru                                      GUINEA
                                                                                                Madura                                                                                                Is.
                                                              10       12Bandung    Semarang
                                                                                  13                                                                      Wetar                                                                         PAPUA
            0     100   200    300     400 Miles                  JAWA                           Surabaya                                                                    Babar            Tanimbar
                                                                           Yogyakarta           15       16                                     Alor                  Moa
                                                                                                         BaliLombokSumbawa                                                                    Is.
                                                                                                                          Raba     Flores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Merauke                    NEW
             95°                     100°                   105°                     14            Denpasar  Mataram                  Ende
                                                                                                                 17            18                         TIMOR-LESTE                              Arafura Sea
          PROVINCES:                                                                                  10°               Waingapu  Sumba           Timor                                                                                 10°

          1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM          12 JAWA BARAT                  23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                              Kupang

          2 SUMATERA UTARA                    13 JAWA TENGAH                 24 SULAWESI UTARA
          3 RIAU                              14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA             25 GORONTALO
          4 SUMATERA BARAT                    15 JAWA TIMUR                  26 SULAWESI TENGAH                 I N D I A N O C E A N
          5 JAMBI                             16 BALI                        27 SULAWESI BARAT
          6 BENGKULU                          17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT         28 SULAWESI SELATAN
          7 SUMATERA SELATAN                  18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR         29 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                                                                                       IBRD
JUNE      8 LAMPUNG                           19 RIAU KEPULAUAN              30 MALUKU UTARA          15°                                                                                                                               15°
          9 BANGKA-BELITUNG                   20 KALIMANTAN BARAT            31 MALUKU                                                                                                                                                                      36232
    2008 10 BANTEN                            21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH           32 IRIAN JAYA BARAT                                                                                 A U S T R A L I A
         11 D.K.I. JAKARTA                    22 KALIMANTAN SELATAN          33 PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)      115°                 120°                 125°                           130°                     135°                 140°

