Document of
The World Bank                    Vit  OVI
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3009-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
March 31, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =           Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Tsh 1.0               =           USO.12
US$ 1.00              =           Tsh 8.30
US$ 1.00              =           SDR 0.817472
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of the
currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to Tsh 8.30 which is close to the 1980 average exchange rate. The
US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that of February 27, 1981.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BET    -    Board of External Trade
BOT    -    Bank of Tanzania
CAT    -    Coffee Authority of Tanzania
CCM    -    Chama Cha Mapinduzi (The Revolutionary Party)
CAPEX  -    General Agricultural Products Export Corporation
TANU   -    Tanganyika African National Union
TAT    -    Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TSA    -    Tanzania Sisal Authority
FISCAL YEAR
Government    -    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:           SDR 40.9 million (US$50 million) equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:   The Project would finance essential imports of agricultural
machinery and materials, as well as vehicle spare parts, to
improve the production and marketing of Tanzania's major
export and food crops. It would support the Government's
Export Rehabilitation Program, which consists of producer
price increases, improvements to the foreign exchange alloca-
tion system, preliminary steps in improving parastatal effi-
ciency and measures to promote non-traditional exports. Under
the project, the Government would further strengthen its
foreign exchange budgeting system, begin to prepare its
development and recurrent budgets on a multi-year basis and
develop an agricultural policy action program aimed at in-
creasing overall productivity in the sector. The Export
Rehabilitation Program faces substantial risks, including the
possibility that additional concessional financing will not
be made available from other sources, resulting in the need
to cut imports even further and hence reducing the benefits
of the proposed credit. There are also likely to be delays
in recruiting key technical personnel needed for achieving
export recovery targets in 1982 and 1983. To help address
both of these risks, the Government has asked the Bank Group
to organize a Consultative Group meeting for the second half of
1981 and to consider helping key Ministries and parastatals in
hiring staff under a separate technical assistance credit.
Estimated
Disbursements:           (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year           1981           1982
Annual             10              40
Cumulative         10              50
Rate of
Return:         Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report           No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for this
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 40.9 million (US$50 million) equivalent, on
standard IDA terms, to the United Republic of Tanzania to help finance an
export rehabilitation program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania in March and again in June
1980. Its report (3086-TA) dated January 23, 1981, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is
given in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961 Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial
base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and trained
personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Government's
development objectives resembled those of many other less developed countries,
stressing growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital-intensive agricultural
projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as high investment
costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Government s view to unaccept-
able economic and social conditions, such as widening income differentials
and unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to
this situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967. The
new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy state-
ments, were directed towards establishing a socialist society, with greater
emphasis on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development
efforts, and the development of a mass education system. To accomplish these
ertds, the State, with guidance from the Party 1/, was expected to play the
leading role, especially in the reform and creation of appropriate institu-
tions. This led in the late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale
industry, commerce and finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies,
the formation of ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of
government (1972) and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
1/   The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in February
1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the CCM.



- 2 -
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enrollments
increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years, and access
to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4%
per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP from 1970 to 1973,
and domestic resource mobilization improved with recurrent revenues rising
from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.   However, the productive
sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new investment (which was
centered on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the princi-
pal disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector in the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. This growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income differ-
entials. Tanzania made rapid progress towards localizing key posts in the
economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements remained. Dependence on
foreign aid to finance both domestic investment and the widening balance of
payments gap also increased. By 1973, the issues which were to be so important
for Tanzania throughout the 1970s were becoming clear: How quickly could a
countiy with limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the
expense of efficiency and incentives; how long would the country afford these
costs? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized,
productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Also affected by
disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentralization and
villagization), agricultural production plummeted and there was a serious
shortfall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrain for cash. Food imports rose from
US$39 million in 1973 to US$149 million in 1974 and US$136 million in 1975.
Export crop production also fell during this period and the barter terms of
trade dropped by 22.5% from 1974 to 1975. Combined with the drop in export
volumes, the income terms of trade fell by about one-third during these two
years. As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million in
1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh. 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh. 753 million in 1974/75 and TSh. 1,061
million in 1975/76.
6.        At first the Government was slow in responding to its difficulties.
Substantial wage increases were granted throughout the economy in early 1974 to
try to shield workers from the effects of inflation. Subsequently, the Govern-
ment prepared a program to deal with at least the short-term effects of the
crisis and was able to receive some assistance from the IMF and a program loan
from the Bank. Under this program, import levels were tightly restricted,



wages were frozen and government development expenditures 1/ were redirected
towards the productive sectors. The Tanzania shilling was devalued by 10%
against the SDR, and producer prices for food crops were substantially
increased. At the same time, the National Milling Corporation was instructed
to purchase a number of drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and
pigeon peas in addition to the usual foodgrains like maize. Atside from the
devaluation, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no
basic changes in its system of administered prices and government controls.
Indeed, the Government introduced more controls and administered prices after
the crisis. The basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export
volumes, limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        The Government program, boosted greatly by the coffee boom of 1977,
increased foreign assistance and reasonable weather for agriculture, was able
to keep the economy in balance until 1978. The current account deficit fell
to less than US$100 million in 1976 and less than US$175 million in 1977. The
Government made a net repayment of TSh. 24 million to the banking system in
1976/77. During that year, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed
at the same time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The
balance of payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down.
Then, in October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The
resulting war coincided with the oil price increases of 1979 and with flooding
and drought in different parts of Tanzania. As a consequence, the balance of
payments deficit worsened and the Government built up major arrears on its
import payments for the first time since Independence. The domestic budget
fell heavily into deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50%
from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and revenues improved by only 10%. As a result,
government borrowing from the banking system increased from TSh. 600 million
in 1977/78 to more than TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the
major factor in money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this latter
trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture, which
seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experience and
the known marketed surpluses of food.  Assuming a more realistic growth
rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP growth since
1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum.  With population growing
by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase in per capita GDP of only
0.7% per annum. There would also appear to have been a change in the struc-
ture of the economy over the past six years, away from the productive monetary
sector and towards subsistence and service activities.
1/   Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



-4-
Excluding public administration, commercial services and trade, the monetary
sector has grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past six years, well below
the population growth rate. This change in the structure of the economy has
been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to mobilize domestic
resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic savings
or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign savings had
financed 20%-40% of domestic investment.  However, the dependence on foreign
savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic investment during the crisis
years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major shortfalls in domestic
savings have occurred in the Government sector, where they have actually been
negative in some years since 1975. The low return on investments is reflected
in the incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) for the monetary sector, which
was around 4.5 at the start of the decade and rose to between 6 and 7 by the
end of it.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania, account-
ing for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The long term
growth of agricultural production has hardly kept pace with population growth
and if anything has fallen in more recent years as the initial expansion of
export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has been reversed. This poor
performance cannot be adequately explained by the limitations of the natural
environment. Although the importance of rural development has continuously
been highlighted in Government statements, including the Arusha Declaration
and successive plans, this has not always been reflected in the allocation of
resources to the agricultural sector or in policy formulation and implemen-
tation. The general direction of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture
strategy has also tended to emphasize the transformation of the institutional
structure of rural development (through the formation of villages and in-
creasing public involvement in the sector) over measures designed to improve
agricultural production directly. Many of these institutional changes were
introduced too rapidly, without careful planning or sufficient recognition
that by themselves they could not compensate for inadequate incentives and
shortages of skilled manpower and managers. More recently there has been a
greater awareness of the role of incentives and recent price adjustments
attest to the Government's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of
agricultural production. The trend towards greater public involvement in
agriculture has however continued and with the resultant proliferation of
parastatals and increasingly complex structure of administration, the avail-
able manpower has been stretched even more thinly. This has resulted in
weakened capacity for policy planning and implementation, especially in the
areas of research and extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and
other on-farm supplies and equipment. Also related to the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Roads, railways
and water transport have deteriorated owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
maintenance and inadequate planning and management.



The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks,
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past two to three years
(see Table 1). Export volumes are estimated to have fallen by 7% during
1980, to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s and early 1970s.
Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by 27% since the coffee boom
of 1977, due to a sharp increase in import costs, especially for petroleum, at
a time when the overall level of export prices has been rising very slowly.
Owing to these adverse developments, the purchasing power of Tanzania's
exports in 1980 was one-third lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the
1966 level.
12.       Part of this shortfall has been offset by additional external resources,
including a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more than US$200 million
in 1980, as well as by drawings under the IMF Standby Program concluded in September
1980. Under this program, the IMF was to provide up to US$235 million over the
subsequent two years, as well as US$20 million under the Compensatory Financing
Facility. However, owing largely to sharper-than-expected declines in export earnings
and continuing requirements for military expenditures in Uganda, the Government was
unable to meet agreed targets for retiring import arrears, curbing public spending
and limiting the expansion of domestic credit. As a result of these difficulties,
Tanzania has been ineligible to make drawings under the Standby since December
1980. The Government has since introduced supplementary revenue measures and
discussed these and other corrective steps with the Fund in March 1981. An IMF
mission is currently in Dar es Salaam to begin negotiations of a new extended
arrangement to replace the present program.
13.       In addition to import support and IMF resources, Tanzania has utilized
large amounts of exceptional financing, including suppliers' credits and an increase
in import payment arrears. Despite this, the volume of imports has had to be severely
curtailed, and in 1980 was still no higher than in the mid-1970s. In particular,
imports of essential raw materials, intermediate goods and spare parts have been cut
by more than 30% over the past two years, and are now inadequate to sustain even the
present restrained level of economic activity. Furthermore, the present crisis in
the balance of payments has left Tanzania with extremely unfavorable initial
conditions for supporting a revival in import levels and economic activity:
(a)  The level of payment arrears had risen to over US$280
million by the end of March 1981; the arrears queue
is now 20 months long and has not been advanced since
July 1980.
(b)  Tanzania's net external reserves, after deducting
outstanding arrears and IMF obligations, have fallen
to minus US$286 million.
(c)  With the shortage of foreign exchange, the National
Bank of Commerce has been unable to provide letters of
credit for many importers, and has had to increase its
overdrafts with correspondent banks to meet outstand-
ing commitments; under these circumstances, Tanzania
is unable to raise major new commercial and trade
credits overseas and most foreign governments are no
longer willing to extend export insurance cover.



-6-
On top of these unfavorable initial conditions, Tanzania will have to weather
two adverse developments in world markets:
(a) World coffee prices have recently fallen by 30% and this
is still to be reflected in Tanzania's export earnings; at
projected export volumes for 1981, this could mean a loss
of more than US$50 million in foreign exchange earnings.
(b) With the continuing unrest in the Middle East, Tanzania
has lost its major source of crude petroleum, Iraq, which
had been supplying its oil on concessional credit terms; the
resultant need to seek other sources, at higher prices and on
harder terms, will add substantially to the import bill in
1981.
14.       Given these negative developments in coffee prices and oil supplies,
as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing, there is
little prospect for any immediate improvement in the balance of payments,
and present indications are that the situation will continue to deteriorate
during 1981. This continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably
having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing
production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls
in exports and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be
difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign ex-
change and major changes in domestic policies designed to improve producer
incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, non-traditional
exports, and overall government planning and budgeting. With such a program,
it could be possible to generate a revival in export performance in 1981 and
1982, with higher volumes of major export items, including coffee, cotton, sisal,
and cashews. In subsequent years, to help move towards a viable balance of
payments position, it will be necessary to maintain an export volume growth of
at least 8% per annum. While this is an ambitious target in relation to past
performance, it can be realized, provided appropriate followup action is taken
to make more fundamental adjustments in the economy. If export volumes were
to stagnate over the next decade (which is the best that could be expected
without structural adjustments), by 1990 export earnings would be less than
half the level presently projected, implying a reduction in import capability
of 28% from its present very low level.
15.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will continue
to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially over the
next two to three years. These projections are based on a very modest set of
assumptions:  imports to support an economic growth rate of 4%-5% per annum,
the elimination of arrears and the return to a positive net reserve level
by 1986. (Even by 1990, net reserves are projected to be equivalent to less
than 1 month's imports, still well below the minimum acceptable level). Yet
after allowance for existing aid flows--assuming gross disbursements remain at



Table 1: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million at current prices)
Actuals             Estimates                       Projections
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982        1985       1990
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)          548        479        544       570         560        650      1,000      1,960
a/         a/         a/
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         -750    -1,146    -1,100    -1,300    -1,480    -1,680    -2,320    -3,820
Food                              (-41)     (-35)      (-19)      (-90)      (-60)       (-70)      (-80)    (-110)
POL                             (-120)    (-129)    (-172)    (-260)    (-320)         (-370)      (-530)     (-920)
Other                           (-589)    (-982)    (-909)    (-950)  (-1,100)   (-1,240)  (-1,710)  (-2,790)
Trade Balance                        -202       -667      -556       -730       -920    -1,030    -1,320    -1,860
Net Invisible Receipts                 31         47         65         30         20         10          -          -
(including private grants)
Current Account Balance              -171       -620      -491       -700       -900    -1,020    -1,320    -1,860
Gross Aid Disbursements               310        362        460       580         630        680        830      1,110
(including govt. grants)
Suppliers' Credits (gross)          n.s.       n.s.          84       100          50         50         50         50
Principal Repayments                  -29        -25        -22        -50        -60        -60       -110       -120
Errors and Ommissions                  18        -30        -69        -60          -          -          -           -
Residual Gap   h/ i                                -          -          -        200        400        650        800
Overall Balance of Payments           128       -313        -38       -130        -80         50        100        -20
Financed by:
Use of Reserves                  -136       .270        -83         -20         10        -30         10         20
Use of IMF Credit                    8       -22          30         20        120         30        -60          -
Increase in Arrears                  -        65          91        130        -50        -50        -50          -
Net Level of Reserves                 195       -118        156       -286       -366        -316       -26        144
(end of period)
a/  These levels are based on estimated GDP-import elasticities and
may not be reached in the absence of additional foreign income.
b/ To be met by possible import reductions and additional financing.
Sources: Bank of Tanzania and World Bank estimates.



- 8 -
the 1980 level in real terms l/--there would still be a residual gap of US$200
million in 1981 and US$400 million in 1982. Only towards the end of the
decade is the gap expected to stabilize, and then at the very high level of
US$800 million per annum. To reduce this gap, without jeopardizing the
prospects for economic growth, will require not only substantially higher
levels of financing, but also a careful review of import requirements, espe-
cially those for relatively low-priority projects with long gestation-periods
and a large foreign exchange cost. If these adjustments are not made, the
implications for the Tanzanian economy would be serious: the volumes of all
imports, including priority imports, would have to be cut by another 20% over
the next two years, and although some import growth would be possible after
1983, the volumes would remain below their already restricted levels until
late in the decade.  As a result, the prospects would be for generally stag-
nant economic activity, including export production, over the 1980s as a
whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid this, there
will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a concerted
effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and efficiency in the
economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing vital food
production.
16.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial credit
during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply cannot afford
the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the bulk of the finan-
cing requirement will have to be met by additional foreign assistance.
Possible sources for this include further drawings from the IMF (which could
add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment arrangements and other con-
cessional financing from oil-supplying countries, additional new commitments
from traditional bilateral and multilateral sources, and a continued movement
towards non-project assistance. Additional non-project assistance will not
only help speed up disbursements, but also give Tanzania more flexibility to
import items required for operations and maintenance, and reduce the local
budget outlays associated with the starting of new projects.
17.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher cost
commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt service burden
is expected to increase as past loans fall due and new borrowings, including
some on commercial terms, are required to meet the widening balance of payments
gap. Such borrowings, together with very poor export prospects, could raise
the debt service ratio to 15%-20% during the 1980s. In 1979, the Bank held
13% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 39%) and received
33% of Tanzania's debt service (37% for the Bank Group). We are projecting
1/   This could prove to be an optimistic assumption:  as some donors may
reduce their aid levels (e.g. Iraq, in 1981), other donors will have to
provide real increases to maintain overall disbursements; and for all
donors, the maintenance of aid disbursements in real terms over the
medium term will require early and substantial new commitments in one
form or another.



the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall over the coming decade owing to
the reduced IBRD component in the lending program and the continued need for
Tanzania to borrow funds on less concessional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
18.      Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 47 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$899.3 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the development
of the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community. IFC
investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial diffi-
culties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the
Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Commmnity
organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       In support of Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities. Nearly
every sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received
some attention. While this broad involvement in Tanzania's development
efforts will be continued, future work is expected to concentrate on four
general areas: (i) agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii)
industry; and (iv) education and manpower development. As agriculture and
related activities constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has
received 30% of the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending
program in agriculture has featured three main types of projects. A series
of regional rural development projects are focusing on production and the
development of regional infrastructure needed to remove production constraints.
The Kigoma Project (Credit No. 508-TA) was the first of these, and similar
projects have been approved for Tabora (Credit No. 703-TA) and Mwanza/Shinyanga
(Credit No. 803-TA). Another group of projects is centered on specific crops
(such as maize, tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture or one of its parastatals. A third set of projects,
such as the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project (Credit No. 987-TA), is
designed to improve general support services for the agricultural sector.
However, in view of growing evidence of persistent underfinancing of mainten-
ance and replacement of capital in the sector, new Bank Group lending in
agriculture is likely to focus increasingly on the rehabilitation and fuller
use of existing production and processing capacity, rather than on expansion
of such capacity.



- 10 -
20.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications and industry. Transportation difficulties
are continuously cited as critical constraints to development in Tanzania.
Indeed, the Government's inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs
or the regular collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased
production in the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during the seventies
transport investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia
Corridor and since 1977 no systematic investment program has been prepared for
the subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations. The major objectives
of future Bank Group activities are therefore to develop a more coherent
investment program in transport and communications and to provide assistance
to strengthen the ministries and newly established national corporations
responsible for railways, ports and telecommunications. In industry, future
lending is expected to provide further support for well-developed financial
intermidiaries like the Tanzania Investment Bank which are intending to
consolidate their portfolios and place new stress on capacity utilization and
export promotion. Bank Group involvement in education and manpower development
has supported both specialized training and the improvement of the secondary
school system.
21.       Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities. Those approved include a Pyrethrum Project
(Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No.
1015-TA), a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA), a Coconut Pilot
Project (Credit No. 1070-TA), a Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project (Credit
No. S-24-TA) a Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 1060-TA) and a
Seventh Education Project (Credit 1056-TA). Projects which have been appraised
include a rural development project for Mara Region, a telecommunications
project and a small-scale industries project.
22.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent the result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects mounting problems
in project implementation, particularly in agriculture and rural development.
The causes of these difficulties are varied. To a large extent they arise
from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, which would
appear to call for stepped-up efforts in higher education and specialized
training, as well as for sustained high levels of technical assistance in
future project designs. Other implementation problems reflect the difficulty
of identifying and disseminating agronomic input packages appropriate to the
needs of smallholder farmers or result from administrative overextension in
the undertaking of a far-reaching development program. These problems have
been compounded by frequent and fundamental administrative changes, which--
though potentially the source of long-term benefits--have disrupted orderly
execution of some projects and made aspects of other project designs obsolete.
The Uganda war had some early impact on project implementation by diverting
equipment and manpower away from development purposes; however, by contribut-
ing to the current economic crisis, the temporary logistical problems caused
by the conflict have been superseded by deeper and more lasting difficulties
arising from a critical shortage of essential goods and services. During
the last half of 1980, the direct and indirect effects of prolonged under-
financing of essential import requirements became painfully obvious. Most
industrial facilities were working at less than half their installed capacity



- 11 -
and the lack of funds for maintenance and operations (particularly for replace-
ment equipment, spare parts, and fuel) was compounding the already serious
effects of deferred maintenance of capital stock, especially in the agricul-
tural sector. Until the general economic situation improves, the outlook is
for continued and sometimes unforseen interruptions in project disbursements.
There will also be an early requirement for the redesign of *ome projects to
emphasize the operating and maintenance needs of major productive entities and
support services in the economy.
23.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increased atten-
tion has been given to measures designed to improve specific aspects of
project implementation. Courses on Bank Group procurement procedures have
been held in Dar es Salaam for relevant Government officials. A special
project monitoring unit has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
eleven Agricultural Development Services staff have been attached to Bank
Group financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The Government
has assigned responsibility for the monitoring of project performance to the
Sectoral Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.
Since February 1977 there has been a regular Government/Bank Group review of
implementation problems on a project-by-project basis. In October 1980, a
major Country Implementation Review was held in Arusha at which all Bank-
financed agricultural projects were examined, with a view to discussing
sectoral issues in addition to project-related matters. Consideration is
being given to obtaining technical assistance for the central economic
authorities (such as Finance and Planning) and for key operating Ministries
(such as Agriculture) to improve their project monitoring and implementation
capacity. As a result of such steps - and a necessary slowing of the growth
rate of the country s overall development program during the next three years
- we expect some gradual improvement in project implementation.
East African Community (EAC)
24.       Major developments affecting the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the Executive
Directors during their meeting of May 6, 1980. The three former Partner
States have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator to recom-
mend an appropriate disposition of the assets and liabilities of the Community
corporations and the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has visited East
Africa on numerous occasions, has employed consultants to assist in the
appraisal of Community assets and liabilities, and has in March 1980 made
formal recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities.
Meetings at Ministerial level to discuss the Mediator's proposals -were held in
Arusha in May 1980, and in Kampala in February 1981, and a further meeting
in Nairobi is scheduled for June 1981. Meanwhile, the Mediator's report and
recommendations on the future structure of the East African Development Bank
(EADB) have been accepted by the Partner States and the revised EADB Charter,
along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter, have been ratified by the
three Governments.



- 12 -
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL AND EXPORT SECTORS - PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS
25.          As already discussed, Tanzania has had a disappointing record
of agricultural and export performance, for reasons which are similar and
interwoven. A large part of the explanation for falling export earnings lies
in the sluggishness of overall productivity in agriculture and the difficul-
ties experienced in ensuring adequate food for Tanzanians, a reasonable supply
of agricultural raw materials for the country's small industrial sector and a
surplus of cash crops for sale in foreign markets.
26.       Export volumes are now estimated to be 30% lower than in the
mid-1960s, and as a percentage of GDP, export earnings have fallen from 25% in
1966 to only 11% in 1979. Although export earnings have at times risen very
sharply, this has been due entirely to favorable price movements, such as
during the coffee boom of 1976-77. The underlying trend in export volumes has
been consistently downward for the past 15 years, and when associated with a
deterioration in the terms of trade, such as at present, it has resulted in
severe balance of payments difficulties.
27.       Unfortunately, with the recent collapse in world coffee prices, the
immediate prospects for a recovery in exports are poor, and indeed, our
current projections (summarized in Annex IV) indicate that export earnings
could well fall in 1981. However, with implementation of the Government's
program of export rehabilitation, and complementary external financing from
other sources, export volumes should increase by 5% in 1981 and 10% in 1982.
With appropriate follow-up by the Government in revising its agricultural and
trade policies, and the early formulation and implementation of a more
comprehensive program of structural adjustment, it should also be possible to
sustain an export volume growth rate of 7%-8% per annum in subsequent years.
Traditional Exports
28.      As in the past, export trends continue to be dominated by the per-
formance of traditional primary products. Although Tanzania's export struc-
ture is somewhat more diversified than for many other African countries, seven
commodities--coffee, cotton, cloves, sisal (fiber, cordage and twine), cashews
(nuts and kernels), tea and tobacco--still account for more than two-thirds
of total export earnings. In 1980, the total export volume of these seven
commodities was 28% lower than in 1966 and 34% lower than in 1973. Of these
items, only tea has risen consistently since the mid-1960s: sisal and
cotton have steadily declined, cashews and tobacco have recently been falling
from their peaks in the mid-1970s, and coffee and cloves have fluctuated
around a stagnant trend. In the cases of tobacco and cotton, rising domestic
consumption in recent years has reduced the share of production available for
export. However, the disappointing performance of Tanzania's major primary
exports generally reflects the declining production of cash crops from the
mid-1960s and especially since 1973 (See Annex V). Food production
has fared better than export production during the last half of the 1970s,
but is still below the highest levels achieved in the major foodgrains earlier
in the 1970s (See Annex VI). There are several reasons for this disappointing
level of overall productivity in agriculture:



- 13 -
29.       Firstly, official producer prices have not kept pace with world
prices and domestic costs. Recent studies indicate that the price terms of
trade for marketed smallholder production of food and export crops fell by
over 20% during the 1970s. Furthermore, within the agricultural sector, there
was a sharp movement in relative prices in favor of food crops vis-a-vis
export crop.s during the mid-1970s which has only been partially corrected in
recent years. As a result, the price terms of trade for export crops fell by
almost one-third during the 1970s (see Annex VII). This sharp real fall in
producer prices was not determined by world market prices, but rather reflects
the rising marketing and administrative costs of the parastatals handling
these crops and higher export duties, which reduced the farmers share in
export earnings from coffee, cotton, tobacco and cashews to below 50%. These
price developments have led to a diversion of supplies into unofficial channels
(e.g. coffee), neglect and in some cases abandonment of tree and bush crops
(e.g. coffee, sisal and cashews), and substitution of subsistence production
for the annual export crops (e.g. cotton and tobacco).
30.       Secondly, there have been inadequate allocations of foreign exchange
to meet the basic import requirements of the agricultural sector and of the
supporting infrastructure in processing and transport. Although this problem
has become more critical with the recent deterioration in the balance of
payments, agriculture has historically not received a share of import alloca-
tions commensurate with its importance to the economy and its contribution to
foreign exchange earnings. The resultant list of shortages, which have in
many cases led to a net foreign exchange loss for Tanzania, is long: for
coffee, inadequate imports of chemicals required to control coffee berry
disease; for cotton, shortages of fuel and spares to maintain ginnery through-
put, and insufficient bags for packing; and for cashew tinning, inadequate
allocations for tinplate and carbon dioxide. More generally, Tanzania-s
traditional exports have been restricted by severe shortages of imported
spares to maintain tractors, trucks for crop collection, road maintenance
equipment, processing capacity, and rail and port operations. The resulting
processing and transport bottlenecks have been particularly severe for coffee
and cotton over the past year, leaving large quantities of potential exports
still stockpiled at the farms, processing plants and railheads. Large scale
sugar cultivation and processing (mainly for domestic consumption) have also
been severely affected.
31.       Thirdly, the shortages of basic inputs and spares have been com-
pounded by the generally poor organization and inefficient operations of the
parastatal crop authorities. Initially, these parastatals acted in competition
with private traders, but have steadily expanded their marketing role, and now
have monopoly control over all of the major crops. They have also extended
their functions vertically from purely marketing into production, input dis-
tribution, extension services and processing. With persistent manpower short-
ages and organizational problems, the performance of many of these agricultural
parastatals has been less than satisfactory. This has led to delays and
shortfalls in the distribution of inputs and collection of produce (e.g.
coffee), poorly organized research and extension services (e.g. tobacco), and
deteriorating operating and maintenance standards for processing equipment and



- 14 -
transport (e.g. tea and sisal). Most of the parastatals are also facing
increasing financial problems, with undercapitalization, inadequate financial
management (most accounts are two to three years out of date) and tightening
cash flow positions (which are making it difficult to maintain prompt payments
to farmers).
32.       Fourthly, inadequate emphasis has been given to the development of
research and extension. To date, the Government has not made critical deci-
sions required to improve the organization and management of agricultural
extension, the responsibiltity for which is divided among the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Prime Minister's Office (responsible for regional admini-
stration) and several parastatals. The organization of research has not been
adequately guided by technical considerations, leading recently to a decision
to establish two separate parastatals for crop and livestock research. The
result has been inadequate research on appropriate technical packages and an
ineffective extension system to deliver these packages to the farmer. In
tobacco, for example, field management and husbandry standards seem to be
deteriorating. And in cotton, there has been a paucity of research on
appropriate technologies, especially regarding fertilizer levels and appli-
cation methods.
33.       Finally, in addition to these general constraints, there are a
number of problems which have been particularly important for specific crops.
For cashews, for example, the villagization program in the mid-1970's moved
many farmers away from the scattered trees, increasing the costs and effort of
caring for the trees and collecting the nuts. Mozambique's independence also
diverted refugee labor away from the cashew-growing areas. Tobacco curing has
been increasingly constrained by wood fuel shortages, due in part to the
depletion of convenient sources and in part to the movement of farmers under
the villagization program. The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) has not
been able to undertake its own afforestation program to helD relieve these
shortages, due to its constrained financial position. Clove production has
been badly affected by two virus diseases as well as by the advanced age of
most trees on Zanzibar and Pemba. And for coffee, exports from the West Lake
region were reduced by at least 8,000 tons during 1980, owing to a boiler
explosion at the Bukoba factory in October 1979 and the breakdown in February
1980 of the rail ferry which is normally used to move the coffee to Mwanza.
Both of these problems are still unresolved.
34        This review indicates the serious and interrelated nature of the
factors contributing to the poor performance of Tanzania's traditional export
crops. However, certain measures have recently been adopted by the Govern-
ment to address some of these problems. (See Part IV of this Report.) As a
result of this Export Rehabilitation Program, and complementary technical and
financial assistance for which the Government would seek separate IDA support
during FY 1982, we expect the volumes of these traditional exports could
recover by 9% per annum in 1981 and 1982. The largest response would be for
coffee, followed by cotton from 1982, with smaller increases in both years
from sisal and cashews. Although the initial gains will come largely from
relaxation of present processing and transport bottlenecks, a sustained
improvement in export volumes could arise from production increases in later



- 15 -
years. However, full realization of this potential will require more funda-
mental policy changes, especially in the areas of incentives, parastatal
efficiency, research and extension.
Non-Traditional Exports
35.       In 1980, manufactured exports are expected to have earned US$115
million, or about 20% of total export receipts. 1/ However, more than 60% of
this amount was contributed by petroleum products and diamonds, neither of
which provides a basis for medium-term growth: Tanzania is a net importer of
petroleum products (and increasingly so), while the single diamond mine is
gradually being depleted. The residual manufactured exports include primary-
based products such as textiles and garments, leather and shoes, and wattle
extract, 2/ as well as a range of minor industrial goods based on imported
components, such as aluminum products, batteries, and electrical goods. The
value of these residual items had fluctuated around US$20 million per annum
over the six years through 1978, with no increasing trend despite rapidly
rising market prices. However, led by increased exports of textiles and
garments to neighboring countries, their value has grown markedly over the
past two years to US$33 million in 1979 and an estimated US$45 million in
1980. Although exports of manufactured products are still too small to
provide an adequate offset to the disappointing performance of the traditional
products, their continued development is important to ensure that a broader
base is established for export growth over the medium term.
36.       Some of the causes of the slow development of manufactured exports
can be attributed to external factors such as protectionism, restricted market
competition and discriminating freight rates; the breakup of the EAC in early
1977 and subsequent closure of the Kenya border have also had an adverse
effect. However, taken together, these factors do not seem to present an
impenetrable barrier to export success. Rather, the more fundamental problems
seem to lie in the domestic economy: the high cost structure of the industrial
sector, shortages of foreign exchange and agricultural inputs, the limited
availability of domestic credit, transport bottlenecks, and inadequate quality
control and marketing facilities.
37.       To help overcome these handicaps, the Government has over the years
introduced a limited range of measures to help promote manufactured exports.
These include:  (i) the import duty drawback scheme, which provides for the
exemption or remission of all duties on imports used by domestic manufacturers
to produce exports; (ii) the differential export duty scheme, which allows
exporters to buy certain domestic commodities at prices net of export duties;
1/   For the purposes of this Report, the category of non-traditional exports
includes both manufactured goods and a number of small and relatively new
agricultural exports, including animal feed and seed beans, which together
are expected to earn US$45 million in 1980. However, the primary focus
of this section is on manufactured exports.
2/   Wattle is an acacia tree whose bark is used in leather tanning.



- 16 -
(iii) the establishment in 1978 of the Board of External Trade, to advise the
Government on matters relating to national export policy and to help establish
programs to expand trade relations and promote export sales; and (iv) the
allocation of additional import licenses to exporters. Unfortunately, none
of these measures has yet been very effective in fostering export development:
administrative problems have severely limited the operation of both the duty
drawback and differential export duty schemes, the Board of External Trade is
still to become fully operational, and the foreign exchange crisis has
frustrated attempts to channel additional import licenses to exporters.
38.       The problems facing manufactured exports, together with various
proposals to improve export incentives, were reviewed in a recent World Bank
study prepared for the Government of Tanzania. 1/ Partly in response to that
study, the Government has reiterated its commitment to export development and
has indicated its intention to introduce a package of measures to promote
non-traditional exports. These measures are included in the program discussed
in Part IV of this Report. (The level of incentives for manufactured exports
is also to be a consideration in the exchange rate study currently being
undertaken jointly by Tanzania and the IMF.) This program is designed to
improve capacity utilization, so that a surplus over and above domestic
requirements can be generated at competitive prices, and to ensure that an
appropriate share of this production will be oriented towards export markets.
With implementation of this program, we project that non-traditional exports
(excluding petroleum products and diamonds) could grow in real terms by 4-5%
in 1981, and possibly by as much as 25% during 1982. The best prospects would
appear to be for the minor agricultural crops and those manufactured products
based on primary processing, especially textiles, garments and shoes to neigh-
boring countries (Uganda, Zambia, and Mozambique) and finished leather to
Europe. These prospects will depend critically on a revival of the agricul-
tural sector and in turn, on the implementation of measures required to
generate that revival. For this reason, improvements in the agricultural
sector remain the central focus of the Export Rehabilitation Program.
Other Considerations in the Agriculture and Transport Sectors
39.       The implications of the foreign exchange crisis, not only for short
term decisionmaking but also for long term planning in the agricultural
sector, are only reluctantly being accepted by the Tanzanian authorities.
In addition to the particular problems outlined in paragraphs 29-33 above,
there are several factors inhibiting major changes in agricultural and other
national policies.
40.       First, there are social policy constraints in this area.  When major
institutional changes such as villagization, decentralization of Government
and the establishment of parastatals were first introduced, it was recognized
that these would disrupt basic agricultural services and hence production,
at least in the short term. As such disruption has proved deeper and more
prolonged than had been hoped, and the desired long-term effects (such as
better extension through higher literacy and concentration of the rural
1/   Professor Gerald Helleiner et al., Draft Report for the Government of
Tanzania Task Force on Export Incentive Schemes, December 1978.



- 17 -
population) have yet to take hold, there is great reluctance to conclude
that the trial period for some of these policies is now over. For example,
a firm commitment to promote equitable growth in rural incomes among Regions
has prevented the adoption of otherwise attractive solutions to current pro-
duction and marketing problems, such as concentration of scarce agricultural
inputs and ;ransport facilities on areas with the highest production potential
(e.g. Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Iringa). For the same reason, the distribution
of key inputs such as fertilizer through cash sale, rather than credits in
kind from the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, has been discouraged.
41.       Second, food security objectives have been paramount in agricultural
planning since the disastrous drought of 1974/75, and the Government has been
reluctant to shift the balance of relative producer prices away from food-
grains towards export crops. The food situation is now poor again in Tan-
zania, despite bumper harvests of maize in 1977/78 and 1978/79 which made the
country self-sufficient in this major staple for the first time since 1971.
Heavy rains in 1979 spoiled stocks and poor rains in early 1980 reduced
production, leading to food shortages, particularly in the towns. The Govern-
ment has hence been obliged to import large amounts of maize, in addition to
normal and still substantial volumes of rice, wheat and edible oils. Unofficial
prices for maize are now three to four times those offered by the National
Milling Corporation. Accordingly, NMC is expected to procure only 50,000 tons
in 1980/81, compared with 161,000 tons in 1979/80 and 222,000 tons in 1978/79.
While producer incentives appear high enough to ensure a revival of maize
production, if weather permits, the Government is nonetheless concerned about
even the most modest impact of official price adjustments on foodcrop produc-
tion. This concern, combined with Government budgetary ceilings and the
current exchange rate, impose real limits on further adjustments to producer
prices for export crops.
42.       A third general constraint to early Government action is the very
complexity of taking decisions on a wide range of interrelated policy fronts.
The lack of a coherent long-term strategy for agriculture, and manpower
shortages in key Ministries and agencies, further complicate this task. The
Government also knows that the re-allocation of resources to once-neglected
areas (such as the maintenance and operation of agricultural production
facilities) will entail costs, such as the suspension or cancellation of new
projects in other high-priority sectors. A major readjustment of investment
and spending to the requirements of the agricultural sector, to ensure that it
receives a more appropriate share of total public resources, will also require
protracted and detailed discussions with all external financing agencies, with
a view to re-examining past commitments and objectives.
43.       In the transport sector, the key constraints to early improvements
in services are the poor state of the road network, ineffective management of
parastatal transport fleets and a chronic shortage of equipment and spare
parts, particularly in the private sector (which still accounts for a large
proportion of input and crop deliveries in the country). Manpower shortages
in the Ministry of Works and the principal agricultural parastatals also make
correction of these problems extremely difficult.



- 18 -
44.       The Government recognizes that these constraints are severe and
can only be addressed over an extended period of time. However, as a first
step in a comprehensive program to deal with these problems, the Government
has embarked on an immediate, more limited, program to help revitalize the
country's export sector.
PART IV - THE EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Background and Objectives
45.       In response to the export sector problems outlined above, the
Government and the Association discussed possible remedial measures throughout
1980, while trying to reach a consensus on an economy-wide structural adjust-
l2ent program. Once it was apparent that finalization of this broader program
would entail considerably more analysis and discussion, it was agreed that a
logical first step would be to concentrate on that aspect of Tanzania's
external position which could be alleviated during a relatively short period
of time. In developing such a limited program, it was acknowledged that
additional complementary measures would have to be taken to make even an
export-specific program permanently worthwhile. In view of the country's
current account deficit, it was also plain that early assistance from IDA
alone would not suffice to substantially narrow the gap. To mobilize addi-
tional support from other financing sources, the Government has requested the
Bank Group to organize a Consultative Group meeting during the second half of
1981. It has also agreed, during implementation of the export program, to
prepare prompt followup measures which would justify supplementary financing
from IDA and other sources in support of a wider economic adjustment program.
46.       It is intended that such measures would form the basis of appraisal
for a possible Second IDA Rehabilitation Credit in September 1981 or soon
thereafter. Issues to be addressed in a more comprehensive program include:
formulation of an effective strategy for agriculture, with particular emphasis
on improving productive efficiency through better incentives, input supplies
and research and extension systems; improved organization and operational
efficiency of the parastatal sector; greater budgetary provisions for opera-
tions and maintenance, especially in agriculture and the supporting processing
and transport infrastructure; a re-evaluation of development projects, to
ensure that they are of high priority and compatible with present resource
constraints; and a general improvement in governmental budgetary control and
planning capacity. Initial steps in these directions are included in the
specific proposals which follow. However, concerted follow-up by the Govern-
ment will be necessary to ensure that these preliminary measures will lead to
a well-defined set of wider policy actions. These have been set out in a
Memorandum of Understanding, which was agreed upon during negotiations.
47.       The proposed Export Rehabilitation Program was appraised in October-
November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1981. The
Tanzanian delegation was headed by Mr. F. Kazaura, Principal Secretary at the
Ministry of Finance, and included the Principal Secretary of Planning and
Economic Affairs, the Principal Secretary of Agriculture, the Economic
Adviser to President Nyerere and representatives of the Bank of Tanzania and
the Tanzanian Embassy in Washington.



- 19 -
48.        The broad objectives of the program are to reverse the decline in
the volume of traditional agricultural exports and to increase the rate of
growth of manufactured and processed exports. The means of achieving these
objectives are: (a) to improve producer returns to farmers from major export
crops; (b) to ensure foreign exchange financing of high priority imports
necessary for the operation and maintenance of existing productive and
processing capacity in the agricultural sector; (c) to improve the efficiency
of agricultural parastatals; and (d) to introduce higher incentives for the
production of non-traditional exports.
(a) Raising Agricultural Producer Prices
49.        Producer prices for most export crops have declined during the 1970s
in relation to food crop prices, to the domestic cost of living index and to
world prices (see Annex VII). The resulting deterioration in relative returns
to export crop production has been a major factor in the declining output of
such crops. The Government has recently recognized this problem and has taken
steps over the past two years to adjust producer prices. Furthermore, as part
of its recent agreement with the IMF, the Government is committed to reinfor-
cing such producer price incentives. In July 1980 producer prices of the
principal export crops for the current 1980/81 season were raised by 7%-19%,
while the producer prices of the principal food crop (maize) and other minor
food crops were left unchanged. The price of cashewnuts - where production
has declined dramatically during the late 1970s - was increased by 67% 1/.
Following further studies, including recommendations made during appraisal of
the Export Rehabilitation Program, the Government has concluded that these
price adjustments have not been sufficient to ensure increased production of
certain major export crops. As a result, the Government has taken action
to increase producer prices. On February 1, 1981 the Government abolished
the export duties on coffee and sisal, and removed the production tax on
tobacco. The benefits of these tax changes are to be passed on entirely to
producers of the affected crops, resulting in price increases of 30-50 per-
cent. These prices, and those of other crops, will be reviewed again in June
1981. The Government has agreed to complete a study by August 31, 1981 of its
system of setting producer prices, including an analysis of the fuel, trans-
portation and other marketing costs of the national pricing system, and to
emphasize producer incentives in future adjustments of such prices (Section
3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government also plans to
introduce auctions, similar to the existing coffee auction, to replace direct
sales of sisal, cotton and tobacco. Such auctions could increase foreign
earnings from these crops by 10%-15% per year.
50.        The recent producer price adjustments were made outside the annual
cycles for budgetary and agricultural price review, which are usually
completed in June and July respectively. While the price changes will make
it more worthwhile for farmers to maintain their current plantings of export
crops and to increase their yields, the coffee and cashew prices are still
somewhat lower in real terms than those obtainable in 1969/70. Further
adjustments will hence be necessary, as early as July of this year, to induce
a significant expansion of cultivated acreage. However, at the current
international prices for some crops (e.g. coffee) and at the present exchange
rate, such further adjustments will not be possible without Government subsidies.
1/   Production of raw cashewnuts has declined steadily from a peak of 145,000
tons in 1973/74 to about 40,000 in 1979/80 despite strong world prices
for cashew during recent years.



- 20 -
The impact of the new producer prices on the production of major food crops is
likely to be minimal. Of the three crops selected by Government for substantial
price adjustments this year (coffee, cashew and sisal), none is usually in
major direct competition for land and labor time with the staple foodgrain
(maize). Producer returns for maize also remain high both in the official and
unofficial markets.
(b) Priority Allocation of Imports to the Agricultural Sector
51.       As explained in Part III of this Report (para. 30 above), the
agricultural sector in Tanzania has not been receiving adequate allocations of
foreign exchange to meet the basic import requirements of producers and
processing facilities, or of the transport infrastructure on which production
and marketing depend. This problem became so acute during 1980 that an
apparent downward spiral seemed possible, in which the key earners and savers
of foreign exchange in the economy (e.g. coffee, cotton, sisal, maize, sugar)
would receive progressively smaller shares of a diminishing pool of external
income, further hampering their capacity to earn and save foreign exchange for
the economy. The situation was especially unfortunate as agricultural produc-
tion has a smaller import content and accounts for more foreign income than
any other sector of the economy. Arresting this downward spiral became a
matter of the highest priority, even if it implied some specific advance
earmarking of new foreign income to priority uses in the economy. While the
Bank of Tanzania has traditionally favored certain categories of producers,
including agriculture, in its allocation of import licenses 1/, such pre-
ferential treatment has not sufficed to ensure that agricultural producers
received an adequate amount of foreign exchange. A decision to focus these
arrangements even further on agriculture was a subject of much discussion
within Government during late 1980, as some sectors (e.g. industry) appeared
to be faring even worse than agriculture in their access to foreign exchange.
The eventual decision to proceed with these arrangements was based on the view
that the minimum essential requirements of agriculture had to be fully met, if
the Government was to halt the decline in export earnings, and perhaps reverse
it, within a reasonable period of time. The need to increase domestic produc-
tion of foods which are currently imported (e.g. sugar, maize, rice and edible
oils) was also recognized.
52.       With these purposes in mind, the Government has taken the following
actions to improve the procedures for the allocation of foreign exchange and
to increase the proportion of such resources which are available to agriculture:
-    It has established a Special Agricultural Account at the
Bank of Tanzania to meet the full direct and indirect import
requirements of the agricultural sector. These requirements
are currently estimated to be US$180 million per year, if
one includes only the costs of operating and maintaining
1/   BOT has given special attention to (a) domestic resource-based industries
(such as agriculture, agricultural processing and agro-based exporters);
(b) "priority" industries, meaning those resulting in substantial
Government revenues (such as beer and textiles); and (c) secondary
exporting industries.



- 21 -
existing productive facilities in the country 1/. The Govern-
ment is taking steps to mobilize foreign exchange resources
for this purpose. In addition to allocating a substantial
proportion of Tanzania-s own export earnings to this Account,
the Government intends to approach external financing
a,encies to raise foreign exchange in support of agri-
cultural imports. It will do so during bilateral dis-
cussions with those agencies and in the context of the
next Consultative Group Meeting, at which the Government
is expected to argue the case for a major reallocation
of development resources to agriculture, and supporting
activities, and within these, from the undertaking of new
projects to the operation and maintenance of existing
capacity. If resources permit, the Government will also
undertake the phased rehabilitation of key productive
facilities in the country, in the knowledge that without
such remedial work, its own targets of export recovery
will be undermined.
During the first year of operation of the Special
Agricultural Account (April 1, 1981 - March 31, 1982),
the Government will make available US$50 million from
its own resources, as well as the proposed IDA credit,
to finance the importation of US$100 million of pro-
ductive inputs such as fertilizers and chemicals,
agricultural equipment and spare parts (including
replacement parts for crop processing facilities),
agricultural packing materials and vehicle spare parts.
In subsequent years, the Government will assign to the
Account at least 15 percent of all receipts from the sale
of six of its major export crops (i.e., coffee, cotton, cashew,
sisal, tea and tobacco). In addition, the Government will
make every effort to raise additional resources from bilateral
and multilateral sources with the objective of allocating
US$180 million per year for these purposes (Section 3.09 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The resources of
the Account would be reserved for those industries which
offer the largest potential for additional export earnings,
as well as early opportunities for import savings (e.g.
maize, wheat, rice, sugar). Only eligible producers of
these crops and a limited number of supporting industries
1/   This figure does not include the fuel and lubricant requirements of
the agricultural sector and the costs of overdue capital replacement for
major crop parastatals.Similarly, the transport equipment to be financed,
does not include provision for the replacement or expansion of the
existing transport fleet, which is urgently required in certain cases.



- 22 -
and services would have access to these foreign exchange
resources. (See Annex VIII) 1/
The Government has announced that the agricultural sector
will receive priority in the allocation of fuel oil, heavy
diesel oil and lubricants for production and processing
purposes, as well as in the allocation of fuels for transport
of productive inputs and harvested crops. To implement this
policy, the Government has established an interministerial
task force to prepare contingency plans for meeting the
requirements of agricultural producers and other major
consumers in the event of serious oil shortages. This
task force is expected to submit its recommendations to
Government before June 30, 1981.
The Government has appointed a representative of the
Ministry of Agriculture to sit on the Import Licensing
Advisory Committee chaired by the Bank of Tanzania. Before
this, agricultural specialists had no direct involvement
in the import allocation system.
-    The Import Licensing Advisory Committee is to look primarily
to the representa.ive of the Ministry of Agriculture for
screening all import requests from agricultural parastatals
and other producing units, to ensure that such requests are
adequate and justified. To assist him in this task, an
economist, a financial analyst and two agricultural engineers,
will be recruited by the Ministry by September 30, 1981.
(To meet this target date, immediate efforts will be made to
recruit such staff internationally, if Tanzanians have not been
found to fill these posts by April 30, 1981.)
These measures, taken together, will begin to remedy the worst effects of
underfinancing in the agricultural sector, both in the major export crop
industries and in food production. The impact of such remedies, however, will
have to be reviewed during implementation of the proposed Export Rehabilitation
Program, with a view to further increasing, if necessary, the proportion of
overall foreign exchange and other resources which are reserved for agri-
cultural production.
1/   This measure will have two significant benefits:  (a) it will set an
absolute floor on allocations to agriculture from the country's "free"
foreign exchange (i.e. the amount remaining after provision for oil
and food, project-related imports and debt service payments) and (b)
it will establish an automatic link between foreign earnings and
import allocations in the principal sector of the economy. The level
of "free" foreign exchange is expected to drop from US$410 million in
1980 to US$210 million in 1981; under the proposed arrangements, agricul-
ture's share of these resources is to rise from 17 to 23 percent, in an
effort to halt the decline in general foreign exchange earnings.



- 23 -
(c) Improvements in the Efficiency of Agricultural Sector
Parastatals
53.       The large number and broad functions of parastatal organizations in
the agricultural sector have made improvements in their operations indispen-
sable to a revival of output in the export industries as well as food produc-
tion. The inefficiency and high costs of these organizations -- in such vital
areas as research, extension, input distribution, crop purchase, storage,
processing, marketing and direct production -- have provoked wide dissatisfac-
tion in the rural areas and prompted a new look at the appropriate size and
workload of parastatals by the Tanzanian authorities. A Task Force has been
established to study the organization and operations of the National Milling
Corporation, which is the largest crop collection agency in the country and
the most important single source of cash income for farmers, especially in
the remote regions of the country. Another Task Force is looking into the
possible re-establishment of Regional Co-operatives, which until 1976 were
largely responsible for the distribution of inputs and the collection of
agricultural produce at the village and district level. The outcome of these
reviews may include some scaling-down of key parastatal bodies and the transfer
of certain functions to other bodies (such as co-operatives). However, the
Government is aware that changes in parastatal organization and structure
alone will not suffice to ensure improvement in support services for agricul-
ture. Indeed, unless such changes are introduced carefully, there is every
possibility that they will prove more disruptive than helpful to rural ser-
vices, at least in the short term. More important to parastatal efficiency
over the long term will be better management information systems (including
proper accounts), manpower development and a recognition of practical limits
on their overall operational capacities.
54.       In support of these longer-term improvements in parastatal opera-
tions, the Government has recently decided on a number of important measures:
-    A Task Force has been established to bring the financial
accounts of parastatals up to date. As a first step, the
Government is preparing a detailed timetable for the comple-
tion and audit of the accounts of key parastatals such as
the Coffee Authority of Tanzania (CAT), the Tanzania Sisal
Authority (TSA) and the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA). A
further step will be to establish the machinery for keeping
these accounts current in the future and to improve the
detailed design of accounting systems so that timely informa-
tion relevant to upgrading management of these parastatals is
collected.
In conjunction with IDA, and with financing to be proposed
under a separate credit, the Government intends to initiate
overseas recruitment for about thirty key positions in
the Ministry of Agriculture and major agricultural paras-
tatals by December 31, 1981. Such personnel will include
factory engineers and accountants for TSA, an irrigation
engineer, soil scientist and agronomist for the Sugar
Development Corporation and a chemical and electrical
engineer for the Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board. These personnel



- 24 -
would not only serve to fill important gaps in the technical
capacities of major export earning industries, but also
provide a corps of experienced specialists on whom the
Ministry of Agriculture could draw for in-service training
of Tanzanian staff and for other special tasks.
As most agricultural parastatals have only part of their
transport fleets in working order (owing as much to poor
management as to the general shortage of transport spare
parts),the Government has instructed the parastatal crop
authorities to establish more effective transport planning
and management systems, with separate cost records and
controls. The Government also intends to expand the role
of other available road services, including private truckers,
who still control some 60%-70% of road haulage capacity in
the country.
These specific measures affecting the major agricultural parastatals
have been decided upon in addition to the more general approach to parastatal
improvements outlined to the IMF in August 1980, as part of the Standby
Arrangements. At that time, the Government informed the Fund that parastatals
were being directed to improve their production targeting, financial planning
and accounting practices, as a first step toward a more rigorous enforcement
of the Regulation of Dividends and Surpluses Act, which requires the prompt
annual submission of comprehensive budgets and accounts. More generally,
during 1980/81 the Government intends to distinguish between the commercial
and social policy functions of parastatals so as to clearly identify the cost
of social measures and their budgetary implications. Such a review could lead
to substantial and beneficial adjustments in parastatal operations. The
progress and impact of these complementary efforts would be reviewed in the
course of supervising the proposed Export Rehabilitation Credit.
(d) Measures to Promote Non-Traditional Exports
55.       While the major focus of the Export Rehabilitation Program is upon
the traditional agricultural crops, substantial scope also exists for expand-
ing non-traditional exports, including both manufactured goods and minor crops
which are not yet significant export earners (see paras. 35-38 above). A
critical consideration in this is the adverse impact of the over-valued
exchange rate on producer incentives.  As an interim measure, the Government
has decided to introduce a cash bonus for non-traditional exporters, equiva-
lent to 15% of the customs value of exports and payable in local currency.
Under the terms of the IMF Stand-by Arrangement, an understanding on an
appropriate exchange rate policy is to be reached by July 1981. Other measures
to be implemented to promote non-traditional exports include: review and if
necessary modification of the differential export duty scheme to ensure that
export processors can purchase local agricultural raw materials at prices net
of export duties; simplification and centralization under the BET of export
clearance procedures; and adoption of clearer criteria and procedures for
allocating import licenses to non-traditional exporters on a priority basis.



- 25 -
56.       Two further measures remain to be taken during 1981:  namely, the
review and implementation by December 31, 1981 of a proposed export credit
guarantee program (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement)
and the provision of additional staffing for the BET (Section 3.07 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). These measures can be expected to have
some early effect in increasing foreign exchange earnings from the small
but potentially dynamic non-traditional export industries.
(e) Related Measures
57.       In addition to the measures summarized in paragraphs 49-56 above,
which constitute the first phase of adjustment to the foreign exchange crisis,
the Government intends to adopt a number of supplementary measures during the
next six months to prepare the second phase. These measures are described in
paragraphs 58-61 below:
58.       Foreign Exchange Budgeting and Import Allocations.  In a highly
restrictive foreign exchange situation, general improvements in foreign
exchange budgeting and the import allocation system are clearly required.
Accordingly, apart from assigning priority to the import requirements of agri-
cultural producers and exporters, the Government has announced its intention
to introduce other improvements in the existing system. By June 30, 1981, the
Bank of Tanzania will be required to prepare quarterly projections of likely
export volumes and earnings, on the basis of its own production and price
projections, and to revise these monthly. The Government also intends by
September 30, 1981, to establish a central unit within the Bank of Tanzania to
monitor more effectively all official loans, suppliers' credits (1-10 years)
and short-term trade credits (less than 1 year) undertaken by government
departments, parastatals and private borrowers (Section 3.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). This unit will also monitor and report on
official grants, which now constitute the largest share of foreign aid dis-
bursements. In this way, it is hoped that the Government will be able to
predict and meet future debt service obligations more accurately, and at the
same time determine systematically the amounts of foreign exchange which will
be available for other purposes. To ensure broader representation of the
export sector in a key decision-making area, the Director General of the Board
of External Trade has been appointed to the Bank of Tanzania's Import Licensing
Advisory Committee.
59.       Review of Ongoing and Future Development Projects.  As part of its
effort to address the current foreign exchange crisis, the Government requested
all major donor agencies during the annual round of bilateral consultations in
1980 to assign primary importance to completing ongoing development projects
and to improving utilization of existing capital facilities. In pursuit of
these objectives, financing agencies were asked to convert funds, already
committed to new projects, to balance of payments support and to increase the
share of local and recurrent cost financing in bilateral commitments. This
request led to substantial increases in import support financing during the
year, but will need to be made again during the next round of consultations in
1981. The Government also intends to review all current projects, with the
purpose of: (a) re-assessing the feasibility of each project in view of the
current shortage of Treasury resources; (b) judging the extent to which



- 26 -
further foreign resources can be re-directed from project financing to general
balance of payments support; and (c) estimating the scope for reallocation of
resources within projects to meeting operating and maintenance expenditures.
Upon completion of the first round of this investment review, the Government
will submit an indicative framework for the next Five Year Plan (1981/86) to
the Consultative Group meeting which it has asked the Bank Group to organize
during the second half of 1981.
60.       Planning, Programming and Budgeting.  The Government is addressing
a number of weaknesses in public fiscal management, which prevent it from
assigning adequate levels of local resources to priority areas, such as the
export sector. These weaknesses include inadequate funding of key recurrent
expenditures despite the existence of large overall recurrent budget deficits,
excessive expenditure targets in the development budget, weak expenditure
monitoring and control and the lack of a multi-year framework for both the
recurrent and development budgets. In August 1980, the Government agreed with
the IMF to reduce the budget deficit to 9% of GDP in 1980/81 (from 11.5% in
1979/80), mainly through reductions in Uganda-related military expenditures.
The Government also agreed to contain expansion of domestic credit to 20%
(compared with 34% in 1979/80). These measures are already forcing the
Government to be highly selective in the new financial commitments which it
undertakes and to concentrate its limited resources on those productive
activities which offer the highest returns, such as export rehabilitation.
To facilitate medium-term financial planning, the Government has decided
to introduce annual two-year rolling budgets for both the development and
recurrent accounts, beginning in the 1981/82 financial year, with a view to
further extending the time horizon to three years, as soon as this is practical.
During 1981, the Government will also be preparing explicit criteria for
the guidance of operating Ministries in the preparation of their budgetary
submissions, both for the Annual Plan for 1981/82 and for the next Five Year
Development Plan (1981/86). During implementation of the Export Rehabilita-
tion Program and in the course of economic and sector work, the Bank Group
will discuss these criteria with the Ministries of Finance and Planning with
a view to assisting the Government in finalizing guidelines which are opera-
tionally sound and likely to maximize returns from public investment and
spending.
61.       Longer-Term Agricultural Measures.  A goal of paramount importance
must be to increase general agricultural productivity so that self-sufficiency
in foodcrops and growth in export earnings from cash crops can become comple-
mentary, rather than sometimes competing, objectives of national planning.
To build upon past and recent discussions of major agricultural issues between
the Government and the Association, it has been agreed that the Government
will prepare a mutually satisfactory action program by September 30, 1981,
outlining studies and steps to be undertaken to improve major aspects of
agricultural services, including research, extension and the organization of
other support activities in the sector (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 27 -
Fiscal Impact of the Export Rehabilitation Measures
62.       The total cost to the Government of introducing additional export
incentives would be approximately TSh 400 million during the 1981/82 financial
year. This cost assumes a cash bonus of 15% for non-traditional exports
(which would require TSh 100 million), an increase of TSh 4.C! kg for 50,000
metric tons of coffee (TSh 200 million) and an increase of about TSh 1.0/kg
for 100,000 metric tons of sisal (TSh 100 million). Adjustments to the
producer price for tobacco have been made possible by eliminating the produc-
tion tax on this crop, and will entail some loss of Government revenues.
However, without such adjustments the Tobacco Authority would have required a
subvention or loan from the Government during 1981/82 in order to meet payments
to farmers. In this sense, the export program will impose no supplementary
costs on the Government, related to tobacco, which it would not have incurred
normally during the fiscal year. The total projected fiscal burden during the
year would represent less than 5% of Government revenue and could be offset by
a less than 3% reduction in expenditures. This fiscal burden should decline
and eventually be eliminated, if the export rehabilitation program proves
effective. Furthermore, in the event of a substantial exchange rate adjustment,
the costs of the program might well be offset through a major increase in
import and export duty receipts by the Government. For the above reasons, it
is expected that the proposed program would have fiscal implications which
should be manageable within the limits of the current IMF Standby Arrangements.
Administration and Allocation of the Proposed Credit
63.       The proposed credit would provide US$50 million to help finance
essential imports of agricultural chemicals, agricultural machinery, equipment
and spare parts, agricultural packing materials, and vehicle spare parts.
Credit funds would be used approximately as follows:
Agricultural chemicals, e.g. coffee fungicide            US$2.0 million
Agricultural machinery, equipment and spare              US$18.0 million
parts, including tractor spares, harrows and
cotton ginning equipment
Agricultural packing materials, including                US$15.0 million
tinplate for cashew and jute bags for cotton,
and other raw materials, particularly rubber
for tire production
Vehicle spare parts, including truck spares              US$15.0 million
The proposed credit would finance 100% of the foreign cost of these inputs
and equipment. The credit would be administered by the Bank of Tanzania
in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Import Licensing Advisory
Committee which has been expanded to include representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Board of External Trade. The Tanzania shilling equiva-
lent generated by the sale of foreign exchange to importers under the program
would be credited to a special account in the Bank of Tanzania and would be



- 28 -
used for rural development purposes in the Central Government recurrent and
capital budgets (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
It is expected that the entire amount of the credit could be disbursed by
October 31, 1981.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Purchases in excess of US$5 million would be made through procedures
ensuring broad international tendering and would be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Such contracts would be subject to ex post review, i.e. a
brief report containing evidence that it was let in accordance with the
guidelines would precede or accompany the withdrawal application. Other
procurement by Government or parastatal organizations would for the most part
follow the procedures of the Government's Central Tender Board, which are
generally satisfactory to the Association. A portion of the credit proceeds
would also be used for private sector imports and would be subject to normal
commercial practices. To monitor procurement, particularly in the parastatal
and private sectors, the Bank of Tanzania would continue to require that all
imports (with a few exceptions) be subject to compulsory quality and quantity
inspection, as well as price comparison, by the General Superintendence
Company of Switzerland - which has an office in Dar es Salaam. Such inspection
would assist the Government in ensuring economic procurement of goods under
the credit.
65.       The proposed credit would cover the c.i.f. cost of eligible imports
on the basis of evidence that they were paid for by the Bank of Tanzania and
subsequently delivered. Disbursement would be against full documentation,
including original invoices returned to the Bank of Tanzania under existing
regulations controlling the allocation of foreign exchange. It is proposed
that up to US$5 million of the credit be made available to finance retro-
actively items for which Government had either provided foreign exchange
financing or had made financial commitments after November 15, 1980 (Schedule
1, paragraph 2(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). This is pro-
posed in order to facilitate prompt clearance of stockpiled cotton and cashew-
nuts in remote rural areas. Eligible invoices would have a minimum value of
US$10,000 (Schedule 1, paragraph 2(d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Benefits and Risks
66.       The principal benefits of the proposed credit would come from
assisting Tanzania in halting the decline in its agricultural exports and
setting the stage for long-term export growth. As a result of the Export
Rehabilitation Program, the volumes of traditional exports could recover by 9%
per annum in 1981 and 1982 from their present limited base. The largest
increase in shipments would be in coffee, followed by cotton in 1982 and
smaller increases in sisal and cashew shipments in both years. Although the
initial gains will come mainly from relaxation of present processing and
transport bottlenecks, a sustained improvement in export volumes could be
expected from production increases in later years, provided the more funda-
mental policy changes agreed upon in such areas as parastatal efficiency and
agricultural research and extension are carried out. The proposed program should
also make possible an increase in non-traditional exports (excluding petroleum
products and diamonds) of 4%-5% in real terms in 1981 and possible 25% in



- 29 -
possibly 25% in 1982. The combined value of these additional earnings would
be US$35 million in 1981 (including US$27 million from coffee) and USS80
million in 1982. The program should also have a substantial, but as yet
unquantified, impact on domestic food production and hence in import savings.
The credit would support ongoing discussions of economic policy and constitute
a first st-p in a broader structural adjustment program.
67.       The program, however, faces substantial risks.  Even with an im-
proved export performance, Tanzania will continue to face a very difficult
balance of payments situation, especially over the next two to three years.
Without an increase in concessional flows (which are already high), the
country is expected to face a substantial residual gap in 1981 and 1982 - even
with the proposed credit.  The Government is attempting to reduce this gap by
seeking further exceptional assistance from oil exporting countries and asking
traditional donors to increase their balance of payments support. However,
any shortfalls (particularly in meeting the US$180 million annual target for
imported agricultural inputs) are likely to be made up by further cuts in an
already highly constrained import level, and these could neutralize the
positive effects of the export rehabilitation credit. The Bank Group intends
to assist the Government in addressing this problem in the context of a
Consultative Group meeting later in 1981. There is also some risk that the
technical assistance which the Government requires for identifying key pro-
duction constraints, as well as for supervising the ordering, delivery and use
of high priority imports in the sector, will be identified and recruited too
late to achieve export recovery targets in 1982 and 1983. To minimize this
risk, efforts will be made to recruit key personnel (e.g., those for the
Ministry of Agriculture) during the second half of 1981; until this is done,
the Government will assign new responsibilities to existing personnel in
connection with the proposed export program. A parallel IDA credit for
technical assistance will also be presented separately to the Executive
Directors in the near future to help finance and expedite recruitment of the
necessary personnel. A third risk is that complementary measures necessary to
ensure the full potential impact of the export program may not be taken by the
Government in a timely and effective manner. In the key areas of input
delivery and crop collection, however, the credit should provide urgent relief
to the transport sector, including the private road hauliers who account for
some two-thirds of internal agricultural traffic. Alternative approaches to
improving the organization of these key support services will also be discussed
in the context of the proposed long-term agricultural action program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 30 -
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Senior Vice President, Operations
Attachments
March 31, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 31 -                                         Annex I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  1  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZAN7A                     REFERENCE CROUPS tWEICPTED A?RACPFS
LAND AiREA (THOUSAND SQ. En.)                                                  - MOST RECEST ESTIMATE) _a
TOTAL           94 5.1
AGRICULTURAL    498.0                                MOST RECENT          LOW INCC4e             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTMATE jb   AFRICA SOUTR OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTr OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 70.0       130.0    270.0                260.0                  868.0
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     41.0        62.0     65.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2        13.3     17.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8         6.9      10.8                17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     32. 0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHeD               2145
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. 1SM.                     11.0        14.0      18.0                27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. B2f. AGRICULTURAL LAND   21.0        26.0     35.0                 82.6                  126. 0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7        44.4      45.7                44.9                  45.5
15-64 YRS.                        54.3        52.5     51.2                 52.2                  51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3. 0       3.1       3.1                  2.8                   2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.7      3.4                  2. 7                   2.7
URBAN                             5.0         6.3      8.9                  6.8                   4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        47.0     48.0                 47.4                  46.8
CRUD10 DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0       19.0     16.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3. 2      3.2                 3.2                    3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THDUSANDS)      ..         ..      93. 6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-00)         95.0       104.0     91.0                 91.8                  94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Or
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        91. 0    86.0                 90.2                   92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0        49.0     47.0                 53.0                  53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17. 0       21. 0    20.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    32.0        25.0     20.0                 27.7                  21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.0        47.0     51. 0                45. 3                 50. 1
INFANT MORT&LITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       155. o.
ACCESS TO SAFE HATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        13.0     39.0                 23.2                  31.0
URBAN                              ..        61. 0    88.0                 58.0                  66.8
RURAL                                         9. 0    36.o                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       17.0                28.9
URBAN                              ..         ..      88.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         ..      14.0
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN        21020.0/   24770.0  18160.0               30910.4               14508.2
POPUtATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.0/d.e  3830.0   3080.0              5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           570.O/d        .      520.0              1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         4. 4       ..
URBAN                              ..         3. 2      ..
RURAL                               .         4.5/     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROQI
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN
RURAL                              ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IRELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..



- 32 -                                             Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANrA                      REFERtNCE GROUPS (WEIGRTED AVFRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTItUTE).L!
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOQE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTR OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY      TOTAL                25.0        38.0      70.0                  57.7                    61.7
MALE                 33.0        46.0      79.0                  74.2                    69.2
FEMALE               18.0        30.0      60.0                  54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY-  TOTAL                  2.0         3.0       3.0                  10.0                    20.6
MALE                  2.0         4.0       5.0                  13. 7                   29.2
FEMLE                 1.0         2.0       2.0                   7 1                    14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 23.0           ..        ..                   6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
FRlMARY                           45.0        46.0      50.0                  45 0                    36.6
SECONDARY                         20.0        19.0      20.0                  25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        9. 5/d     28. 1c    66.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         2. 5      2.6                  3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0        11.0      19.0                 31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           .. 3                0.3                   1.8
NESISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  3.0         5.0       4.5                   4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5          ..       0.2                    ..                     0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4734.5       5841.7    7342.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  37. 1       36.6      34.0                  33.5                    38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             89.3        86.0      83.0                  80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.8         5.0       6.0                  8. 1                    17. 8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               44.7        43.5      42.2                  42.2                    38.8
MLALE                               56. 9       55.7      54.3                  55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                              32.8        31.5      30.3                  29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1. 1      1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        33. 5
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        63.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     147.0                 138.2
RURAL                                                  1 *  109.0            86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .          .      125.0                 107.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      74.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
ORBAN                               ..          ..      10.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      60.0                 66.9
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithretic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Lless otherwise rnoted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970, between 1969
and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1967,  /d 1962, /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
Most recent eatimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, population and related estimates have alao been
revised, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



33  -                                       ~~~~Annex I
Page 3 of 6
bP!f111IOtNS I QCi2_Ad. D iICAWIOS
No.tes:  Aith-gh too data ate daw   from sot            -- otly judged te. most ath      .tni      .4druihe  it shoud alto he -otd that they may sat be Latw-
A toslyusOahohoas  of th. took of st-ndardfed deteittoos and oo-cpt. coed by diff-oeo  -outries ir. -oleting  the dots,  The data  e.  e
Tho cferens grops ur  (11tho sae      -ost   g-oc  of ths -birot tostory and 11) otonIy toco. pit "        one-ht high.,ovrg  Ios  thea the  -ostey grs
of th  shl00  -uoe   ecpt far "Capital S.rphus Oil taoet                   -goP theta "Middle 1-on  tooh Africa end Middls Eat..          cosnboue  farae
Sooo-clooul  fOl:tteei   i  th.           9-penegoc  dlat  the  . aI.ta.e  err  cpulotloo  seigh-od aitholc, seat-  Fo  each indic-to  ood shew  oY w.en at
leas  holt of the onorisI  a group has data foe that lod oo__t   unto thocov-agu  -fcnrtsaog the  rloos  eed   r the er-1sbllity of
of on  Indicator-      tIns omo  the ro-ui   and ref erooo  groups.
LAND AREA inhoa-ud sq,.is.)                                                                  fooalt  e    hntht-fp-unti  01500. by  ste.r Os ptattioi"ahty-
10tti - Total au.. ace area  -prhisg- land ott  sod foland cacao.                             otols  qua.lfied 0'. ru .a.dic.   ol     autrtyintl.
A&rtLtura  - E.Iso tar  of agti-ltsra  Ores  -ed oeaporarib  or p-on,trnt                  Otoelr  e   ruaPro- Poyalthon dlotdad by nehr at preonlnag
fo -tpt, pOtrt,mrtet and blcha- g-rdes  r n  Ie. talks; 1917 dUo.,                       molsd femae gadsca -raa, prot-toa  -u..n. .ad a..nIntat morase
lOPf't CAITA1001 -GSfPe p ospita esti-e  at curet             kar- pti-o, rut-'          oreo   t   osidcddh   hi   epol                       ~rEf beaPitea  bade
cula-d by tom   ttarti-n -ehodl as bold Baok Atlas (ttfl-79 bahs) ; fl6t,                    avIlable hr fohcad priv-ne geasra  and spelaed  asapia.1 medem
1670, - and   79ydata.                                                                       hbhli.ttsiee cotain.          . taptl   r  eatebIishmete p.VMAmaWt1Y aCaff d
itgiiYtOhIMTil  Nft  olle . dstl cseuyrat  f rsatollettg  (tsI          by at loses nr  phyticisa.  Blcabliuhlots prviding prisalpahly astadll
sad Ilooite, peroeu, tacrsl gee en  hydre-. nohmead g-otherra  eIn-                          omet.os era P.rmonetly sta1ffd by a phyaholss (but by a Weal.  amalsatast,
trichicy) ft kilodrana  at co-   elllo  pee  -oplia  19ff. 19701. ad 1978                    torte, midwife, etc.) nOo  offar in-p.tlet --os4dtlm  end prawd  a
dana.                                                                                         liettad range af -dirl fiseldiem.    ar stetiatioal paepe-  seis  beeld-
PNPIIlA7IfS AtOll OCt1. tIdIlOThi                                   tale Inluds StOOP principsi geeral ned ePetiaLeed hoseimla., eS  mrena
PPITotlIONrANDtirA.  STAId-Tea  aICS  t)-d   hll  I   91   9               n                   hospItals 1en1 or rora1 hespiala and  edios1 and Measmity eMaItere
T-1 PP,,l          - A. ~~~~~~f J.ly 1- 1960deimesh1a9retNaarta15ed -Total  -ubr of adm.istaa to se d1*ohs4Tge
4  -                                                                f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  hespitel. djirdad by the eb.r of beds.
Orban forolatlo   (-soet ofwtetal   ORatio ad seee to tonl  oolitt
diftrtom   deftlttes   of arb-s ae_ any shfeot c. nrahility of data                    HMS
aaa  -oatries; 1960, 1970,. an  1978 data.                                               ....s liar of EO....hold (Ne-naas or heebold   -  onl e"R.an  ee-
pooclatato ftOieOtions                                               ~~      ~~~Ahushold  or.sat  of a 9roep rf tadloidole sh. share ltisau 4-ats a
PopulaioN I  omot ihO  -Cortra  populationP--1 -r btos  t  hosed no lOn             and choI  totsol.~ A hear.de- or ledger   y t- nay tot be Ineded in
total poPatioo 'y age and a-  end their mortality aed fertility rates.                   the hoomehold for scatietee  frrpeo.-
feolarthti  pmroatoatar mo rtality rates  -opti.a of thr-  levels ..t0-                AvergeOuhe of  rroa  crroo    tota.  tbas. sad era  - LAmegs eaan
heg lift ouPeteaty at biech imoeoetss  with coatryt. Pet 00ffr cc trm                    her of Ppeson   pe   o._           _bal  oa.'  aad rur"l oeptd ... -emiese
lerol, .od feaelift espettnoy et.bil"isog at 717.5  easts.  Th.  at'                     datlI.gs, roep-oti-ey.Oeltgeetd  ro-pranet st-stee   and
motrs lot fettIlity rat  also here thren 1-nel  asmaing decline in                       oocopied parts.
fertility  Oooordhag On IOoOn  lere  and past fatly PI a..oot prfrau.                  dustofotfl   (rnnatselha)-ea.abn.nd el-
lath o_onty is thna assIgned  -a  at thees nin  -cblath.. Pt  -ortaity                   Cove- ltal- d-eelldc  with aleotolOty inIlieg yasceers as Pear. e
adfertility treds lao proj-tlen Purpo.... Iof tonal, other, and rntel a-lllngsrra,p-tivly.
liatonan Otulehen- I.atethenaoY pspaiatloa tho          th   o  rth thor
ths bitch rota in agual to the death oats, and a1-cthe age teuur. r-EDC7
motes oocn.Thin isaciee  ony   tne fertility rtate  deallue to                         idO oan  irla-cltl
the reo     -et ee  of omit net rpeuoinrate, when moth gooce                              rmr   col-tcl   oealtml      es   na,ml  n    el
of manse -ePlo-  itself  natly.  The etatlanry  populatIo  tie- cnerlm tof all agee at the ptha-y level as p-eestages bd repeacl1
e tItd o-  he heels of stan penJ.oted oharao-t-dati-a of the potl.sties                 pole_y       XIoleepplroa;ntol   tlds  thds   gdhi
istheya  lIt,an  the rate rf d-olie of f-tnility  -tat  to roplace-yerba  adjste  to d..iffore.  leagtht o  primaty eideasmis  fe
nat level.. ooaetrhn nut unve saadnatlon ealrtsy enoeed 199 percet
Im_c stetitnary Opalaiho  is rehahd - Th. yeas then sttiomoy popolotice                       ehoc  soa  pu.pils are heist or abve nba offloal .ofsel as..
shea baa ban  easohed.                                                                     eodr   o l- totl. mole and teasl  - Ceepate  am ab-v;sasde
feealaoiaa DensIty                                                   edloutlor ra9a~~~~-qireb at Isa.ti four ~year  of approve  pteary isetrantlea
Po n. ha  .Mid-yea  pepsitian per sqare kilomeer (10O beotare) of                          prenidesgeerl ruelsa.                tearher traIing-  istesti-te fOr paPiks
atal. 5t-a                                                                                 o     Ia     o   2to 17 years of ego; otraespssd*aoe osrn       r  gaearally
oal.c.                                                            Voca~~~~~~~~~~~tional ..ratlea"t fe-roet of enco aryv '. Wo-tismo  ibatitmiem
Pershoi-o A.. Nteuosar  (P.tont) - Clhildea  (0-14 yearn), wokiag-Og   115-                     fuoluade teobaloal. loserh r ether prog-  sa wffo  oPeot. Nedeym
64  at)  end rtired (65 year  and, -se  en pn-aentoge  of eid-ya   oe'                        d-tly or An 4 detsotn of  -aodat  Iaetit.tsioa.
hetiar; 1960, 1970. end 1979 date.                                                          rauri- arro     tlst. ad  sonds     T. tota  students eedin
?Pshueno- loath  `tot Retrt      r    - damse  g-ath rae   fctatl Odd-                          primary sad t-ood-y I.velo divided by satbe-  nitea-hers in the
year  poplation   a   9 h,16-0   n  17-g9.                                                     -rr-p-ndint hel.1
fouol r itow    lace (roereo    - orban - Amsh growth rom   o f oebsn p.p.-            idl    tto    asl on)-Literate adolte (able ta read ne  mlt.)
lotlo-   fur 01Sf-hO  1960-70. and 1970-70.                                                   atpar-otags  ot.sne  adaic ot           ltoae  15 yanee andns
trad  010th, tate fre  th.aasd) - donu1 lIve births pee thousand  f aid-you
"papeltirn; 196O, 1970, aed 1970 dan, ..s.rlo
heads   atD Rte  Par theon.And  - AeneI deathe Pot thb..a.d of aid-yea-r                    Paeerhr   Ntsosa   uaete      emne   asots                                no
pouain   960, 1970, and 1929 data,                                                  oars stoing lut thne t pe-nne  noc1de  aaanse  hes-sa and
i-as Neooeoottr  Ns -dreeng   oabro of daughters a  oa   ill bat in                           nilitary    hira
her ;.r-a   er"-d-tlr- period if afar esyrirn.e. pru"et ag-sysiflc for-                   Wdl  ttOler    a   hoo...und .  -saaior) - All typen of roi afar Tad,
tilIty eaten;  ...ahhy 0 ir-year a-reaIn   ead1g in 1161, 197,. ad 1977.                   hcdon   o  o   o   uho  e   hoodOfppltup-mldsai'
alily Pleomiea-Anetcor. dse     huad)-ana   cbra                            Ott               --osn  trot  ..er  hoo-tris  and is y'oar  sh..ro  ugetat-ta  sf  adie  e
of bitth--otr-L daviran  nder.. usiovo of .atioe  tally plasiof p-ograt.                    ou.. In  f r  dare far or-art fooe- ay tot he  -op-rln ainte mot
nona  of ohild-beri.g ago   15-44 yearn) who a-  birth--oooo  d-ci-e tO                  TV Veonhyot  (-e  ThVai ounhai 7  -noiv-rm  for b-sac-t to
all battlednoo  Innaot  horap.                                                              genetl public too thouandpplain   -noode                  "'hlonnd TVttocvt
lsdeo of Food Oted.othos Par Capita (1969-71-100) - Isles of pro capita aoe                   canf"daily gooal  nterest  _eapopr.   dftnod en    priedlol p0b-
-rd-oti-o of all food --oaditth-   Productho-r-ld.a. aced a.,d feed and                    li-ooira devted primarily no ts-rdiag  .....e tIws   In i .hoasid-rd
ia os o-led-r peao boas   ta-oditie- ounc  protory X.odee.gausee                           no hr "dotly" if ht  pappere An  o-t f-ar Otms a sek.
Isated ofaogar  oniN ar  edible and  -oenis .ocrtst-  (c.g. cf0s   r                ioadno   tedsaorCpc   a  fa - .ano.on  he  obre
satino  aveag  you.door pri-o tights; 1961-hi, 19,70, ead 1)9 dN.-                         and   obile onto.
Per 0010C.l foaols(roenoftsiea                              .aput.d Eoa
eoaog r yuraa   u  art fad  mppilia avial   oooyPe"  :aP,,e                                 ")dRC.n
pe -a.Avial   oplr   rars   oral   oduta,IspruIs                                  Ttota  Laboo force(thso..anda) - Coosominahly -oti- pna,inoldie
exports, modobasget is soob,  Nec mopites anoloisoslmol food  -od,      re  f-r-  and o-Plryed hut ..oo1odita O,-uaai-, ttsdrac,   to
qaaothiet_ used to food pr-o...siag, ol lo.-s  It distribution.           ', I teOie-    lflchtic-  10 00000 -       oao        t 000  00 .o..arble; 1960, i9Pl  tand
ccons note estImated by ?IAt h.."d .. pbyninloglcal nad. for  -orua  -ct-           1)7.  00
oity and bh-inb   othdethn   ettoaoalnp-ta-o, hody oaihhtu,  Ft eae;Oort; - fol   1eo   oc  o   eon                                               fttllbor toot..
aed se  di~tOOu-tJ.. of pup.lnt ton  sd ollniug 10 percet for outO-                     beioltrL prcon      lohortors   In farmlg, fooacy. bntieg  and
houshol  leosl-; 1901.60, 1970, and 1977 dorn.,oo 1a   eonaao   rtotl labrfro  16,hY   od1.                                                                       os
Prorpiosuoc  fornl  (goat  ose day) - frutoit cot.to   of Pso captIt                      Ind-n     prcsl-LaborZ. bo t h   itg   rneora   ae tr
cot tp         cffodprdo.Pt supply of land iu dollsea as abov.-   Os-                  '~    lcrui,ocro    a   spte                         fttllhrtre   90
qoiranoc   foral a1 attnes estebliohad by USDA pr-ide f or 5i.ito                        1920 .od 1Oyd data.
oraO   f6hI groa  of total pootrin per day end 2  goon  of a Iaa   o               snopte   eofeot      oa,ar    o   aae-Prilets0
Pohas prasof   ihin  10 gSran sh-ld be autosl poti. Thes  stood-                       lao_tjtty racesat  tousdastoa, molt, sad tfel  laho  force a
atIn  -r  Iccr thee tht.. r  75 gram  of total poocoi. ead 23 hosa- 00                   proatge f ito., mole sad tamal  pou              bhcelf lae  rapmotivey;
to,"e  Prenis asataerg  f0 athb  sand, pt.posed by fAt is the Third                                                     T~.r    L'                            *    attt
Wol   olOto; 196-5   90ad11   ns                                                          1960, 1970, sou  1975 data.   hn   r   1'   atoiahsnterteta
toocaitoprten  oplyI           197n0sa an.    us       rtetrpl   ffod1In-                 agatara  trurcos of the popoletot., cd hang tir trend.  Afew tOi-
oEl ro. as.si-n and Psle.. in asa-  p00 day; 1961-A5, 1970 sod 1977 Inca.             monos err from  -.stiottnl sNortes
.1d                           M-1 4-b. P- th-aad 1.                   t.~~~~~~~~n thr total labo- foo-a
agegras  1-   er,t   hide   stI    ge  Op; f.r ..oat dov-loplg  -ao-
noose data derived fro  life tabLse; 1960, 1970 eel 1970 data.                         tsconm DISTRIBUTION
at birth; 1960, 1970 sad 1970 data.
1sf ot Xtorna icy  ate .    t tosn) -  A-al deoths of tehasts sadsr cNnsr                  5DVE7T  TARGET ihO7Sy
cO ege I00 thmn   iebirh..                                                               RtiSa,ted uolnPvetbo s   rl(0$etal.a-urban sad  -eal
A-ne. to Oafs Wfatf loret of  asnia- tt l,uba..,s M rusa  - 0                                 bbslsn  ponrty inom   srli   ha   no    ee  balsa whiche   ill
-athr ofpol   ttl   ra,an   so)ct   aoal  acrst   so                                         artoa    adofnte diet plus enete   n-fond tegiatesata ia rot
aacrspyly l-ieodea .tretd aefcetars orautrna-d ou  dostmnan                             of f. -ah
strr soul us thot fros  poterted borbhle..eong,ad aA.aywln    00                          ~ fetiana  Releti-m Pr        I. tcm  lee  CIS$ -e  -cit.)  -b"rfs an  rspj 
peoear   f their  -epeeciv  PopsI.i-tlm . I  Os -rbea  vs   pofalt                   Nu-o  r-la-t- PovryIasols                   n-hr   faeaePerCpt
f-ati  or. -stadpoet  -trose    at mor  thor 700 narra hrs_ a horna may bn                  pesnl  t            aort, thc  cco'Or.  a   --rsirds darfe   teo  nb-  rera
-oanIdea  00ba'sg withi.a onor-bla scuan  of that haut.  10 rural sosa                      lee  with adjc.toen   too hIdfae  cot at lIvIng in 'ubanaes
_tu...able  ocosa  -aId hep ly that the h..ea-'f. rr nrbrca of the bruaholK               olae   ouahnOlaO,aoeNvnyIon  Le-e  (Varoet) - arha
do nut hove nops  a dtsptrp-tla-ai  parr. cf the day it, lettihg Oh                          n  rot   por-ea  of         .I yataacs    uban and rrl  who ate 'bsePar".
-uol  - Maeara icola (_totl   rbu           uraltl nomad tynsor__
dipoala  p--teeges  t their raspeonirs "popoltos.  fanoeta  Its-                                                      tsaloand OSala  Oars Dleisl
p .atImay i-lode shin               ..lettn  o  diepoee, wIth c- wloh-t tresn.-s,toa_ir Ansalysis int Prbojetlam   Osaperent
oh huss  eor.ta ad waste-wtr by -tar-borm   myn.tom  ar cbs _5  otf
pin privIes sod nabiso testaliatloss.



Annex I
TANZAN9IA                                                                                    Page 4 of 6
Econoic Development Data Sheet
1977
Actual                                       Provisional                       Pro iected                           Averag            7. Annual Growth gates        Share of
1972         1973          1974         1975          1976         197 7         198          17             90           1890                       197 2-77           97-3          1985-90          GDP
A   NAINLACCOONTS
(Milion DD   at  9197 Price)
1   0DP                                                  2773 9       26622         30D47         3119 4       3364 1        3542 4       3734 1        3890 2       4069 7        5105 8        6592 3           3D               4 7          4 9             100 0
2   Gales true Terme of Trade (TT)                       -161 0        -207 3       -348 9        -345 7        -69 9        -116 1       -135 2        -174 5       -223 4        -251 8        -277 4                                                          -3 3
3   ocea .DoMestic Income                                5612 9       24,547        2 655 6      2773 7        3294 2        3456 3       3598 9        37 19 6      3846 2        4t54 1        6223 9           5 6              4 4          5 1              96 7
4   Deports                                              1084 7        1019 8        895 4         939 4         751 0        902 4       1063 9         904 9         924 7       1102 8        1330 4          -5 9               4 1         3 8              22 7
5   DEports   Volume                                     1054 7        1004 5        741 3         734 5        924 5         686 3        674 7         700 8         746 4        907 0        1164 7           9 2               3 5         5 1               19 4
6   thspnmts-TIadiunted                                   89957        8033          5465          493 7        691 1         88. 3        559 5         52653        522 9         655 2         8865           -52              -0 6          6 2              19 4
7   Resource Gap - STTdjueted                             191 0        2075          3489          345 7         69 9         116 1        524 4         378 5        401 8         447 6         444 2                                                            33
8   Total Canusnptien                                    2163 0        198463       240,~1        2555 0       2654 9        2986 6       3404 5        3421 1       3540 6        4371 5        5448 3           668               4 9         4 5              84 3
9   Investment                                            640 9         682 2        755 7         669 3        655 7         671 9        718 9         673 1         707 4        930 9        1219 8           1I0               4 2         5 6              19 0
10   Nationaloavinga                                       430 4        4645          3041          314 2        676 4         537 1        325 0         412 0         416 6        617 9         951 7           11                198         9 0               15 2
11   Doa..atinls-ioge                                      449 9        4664          2527          2i8 7        639 3         439 7        194 4         294 6         305 6        482 5         775 6          -04                1 2        100                12 4
12   CUP at curr ent US                                   1564 1        1866 2       2259 1        2564 4       2761 4,       3542 4       4555 7        4686 4        5593 1       9941 7       18605 0          17 9              13 8        1533
8   StCTOR OUTPUT                    1
(sharo at GCOP at 1977 points)-'
1   Induetry                                               16 3          17 3         16 0          15 1          14 4         13 8          13 0         12 7          12 3          12 3         13 2           1 3               3 1         6 4
2   Agnicult'cre                                           St1           540          46 8          48 6          50 4         51 0          59 8         50 4          59 1         48 3          47 1           47                3 8         4 4
3   Servicee                                               32 7          285          37 2          36 4         35 3          35 2         36 2          3608          37 6          39 3         39 6           63                6 0         5 1
C   PtiCti
1   Export pcicelndex                                      36 4          433          64 2          63 6          76 7        100 0          91 0         95 9         102 5        142 2         190 8          226                4 5         6 0
2   Deport Prine Cndsm                                     43 0          54 1         87 1          94 6          92 6        100 0        113 8         127 7         146 3        196 9         250 7          18 4               8 8         5 0
3   Te-is ofTrade                                          84 7          800          73 7          67 2          82 7        100 0          80 0         75 1          70 1          72 2          76 1
4   GOP Deflator (US $)56 4                                              70 1          74 5         82 2          82 1        100 0         116 1        120 5         132 5         194 7        286 1          12 1               8 7         8 7
S   Averag  Exnhange Rat. (foaShtS$)                      7 143         7 021        7 143         7 414        8 379         8 274        7 6899
0   StLECTED INDICATORS                                                    1972-77       1978-95      1985-9-0
1   1108                                                                 440           3 93         3 72
2   Deport Ela. icity                                                   -0 22          0 11         0 77
3   Average Domes tic saviogs gate                                      17 2            7 3        11 4
4   Acetate National Oavin6s tate                                       19 0           10 9        13 9
5   Marginal Notional Savings Rate                                     -t, 24           0 27        0 25
6   Import/GD?                                                          3908          2352         20 9
7   Investment/GOP                                                       2 40          18 9        19 4
8   Rtaoora Gap/GDY                                                      7 8            9 4         8 0
2/                                                                                ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prov  Proem
E   PUNLIC PFlNANCE-/                                                                                                            Actual        Actual          Eta
(Milli.n TShillinge)                                     1965/66      1972/73       1975/74       1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78       1970/79
1   Current Ravanun-                                       716          2357          3023         3946         3919          525D         6082          6689
0.1 Tax Revenue                                            602          1927          2510         3161          3302         4644          5317         5859
2   Corret tEpnditturo                                     707          2223          2785         3961          3716         5022          5847         8907
3   Government Savings                                        9          134            238         -15           203          220           235        -2218
4   Pareign Grantu                                                        62            214         377           469          626           709         1250
S Scrplun Available tot FPs...ang o
6  Develepoent Enpeeditore                                           196            452         362           672          894           944         -969
6 Dovelop-et Oxpe-ditor                                  230           956          1642         2225         2253          2763         3585          4771
7   Overall Deficit                                                     -760         -1190        -1863        -1581         -1069        -2641         -5739
0   Pinancing of the Oef-ct
E.ternal Loane                                       83          456            467         661           564           777          660         1177
Domstic Borrowangu
Bankc-D  System                                               269           321          834          570                         464         3003
other                                                          25            202         369          447                        1517         1559
I/  In 1966 prices and 1977 s-deo -bane year                                                                                                    FAIDA
2/Cnta   Owr -ent                                                                                                                        January 3, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                  Page 5of 6
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(Million US$)
Act-al                                        Preliminary              Projection
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979         1980        1985         1990
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                       384.3       434.6       476.0       467.0       632.1       686.3        613.9       672.0       765.2       1289.4      2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                       466.1       546.8       779.8       793.8       697.1       802.4       1210.7      1155.3      1353.2       2170.2      3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                          -81.1      -112.2      -303.8      -326.8       -65.0      -116.1       -596.8      -483.3      -588.0       -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                  -5.9         7.4        -5.2         -7.3       21.5        -18.7       -24.6       -47.5       -66.5       -137.0      -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                         3.2        11.2         8.9        -3.1       -17.9       -16.4       -15.8       -37.8        -55.9      -119.8       -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                   (-11.1      (-12.5)     (-13.6)    (-16.2)      (-19.5)      (-22.1)     (-24.7)     (-27.8)     (-35.0)    (-121.8)    (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)             )                 -9.1       -18.6       -14.1        -4.2        -3.6        -2.3        -8.8         -9.7       -10.6       -17.1        -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                    -4.2         5.0        45.2        92.9         55.4       116.1       175.0       195.0       218.4        384.9       678.3
6.  Balance on Current Account                                -91.9      -114.6      -263.8      -241.2       -31.1        -18.7      -446.4      -335.8      -436.1       -632.8      -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         5.0         5.4         5.7          6.1         8.6        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                             14.0        18.6          6.5       34.9          2.9        13.9         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                          109.5       113.6       161.3       249.5       122.4        177.8       173.2       210.5
10.  Amortization 1/                                           -34.2       -23.7       -18.8       -18.0       -21.9        -26.4       -26.8       -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements I/                                       75.3        89.9       142.5       231.5        100.5       151.4       146.4       155.8
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                        0.0         0.0        60.3        25.2        23.7          8.8        17.0        30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                             7.2       -17.9          7.5        -5.1      -38.3         35.1        60.0       120.0
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                               54.8        49.0       -47.4       -30.1       -10.8        -26.0         0.0         0.0
15.  Change in Reserves (- - increase)                         -59.4       -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9       -169.5       229.0        24.3
B. Grants and Loans Commitment
1.  Official Gtants 2/                                          9.8        23.6        51.1       127.8       119.0        130.0       200.0       216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                        65.4       107.1       260.4       151.8        194.1       197.3       225.3       269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                   -           -          65.0        30.0        37.0         53.0        25.0        66.0
2.2  IDA                                                   10.8        22.6        61.2        10.0        52.0         49.2        73.5        63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                     3.3         1.8         7.1        18.0        10.8         33.5        27.6        18.2
2.4  Governments, of which:                                47.1        82.8       127.1        93.7        82.7         61.3        98.3        30.0
Centrally planned economies                         4.9         3.0        76.5         5.4          -           -           2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                              -           -           -           -            -           -           -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                 4.2         -           -           -          11.7          0.3         -          10.0
2.7  Bonds                                                  -
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                                -           -           -           -           -            -   -       -           2.8
3.  Other M & LT Loans (where available)                       26.4        18.6          5.6         2.9         6.0         -           -
C.  Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitments                         49.2        83.4         63.1       56.4         66.6        56.8        45.5         32.8
*. Average Interest                                             3.6         0.6          2.3         3.0         2.2         3.2         4.5          5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                   28.1        47.8         32.2        31.9        38.8        35.1        32.8         25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                              EAIDA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                             January 2, 1980



Annex I
IANZANiA                             Page 6 of 6
I/
Debt- and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972        1973        1974         1975        1976         1977        1978
A   Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(Us $ Million)
I   Total Ocbt Outatanding (DOD  End of Period)                 441 7       551 1        728 3       917 1       1029 2      1123 4       1213 1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                       835 5        987 3      1280 5      1359 0       1555 9      1649 3       1806 4
3   Public Debt Service                                          43 3         39 3        32 4        34.1         41 6        48 4         49 6
3 1 Interest                                                     11 1         12 3        13 6        16 2         19 5        22.1         24 7
4   Other M & LT Debt Service
B   Debt Burden
I   Debt Service Ratio                                           11 3          9 3         6 8          73          6 6          7.1         7 8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                              2 8          2 1         1.4          13          1 5          1.4         1 1
3   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                       14 7         10 3         6 6          64          7 6          7 0         5 8
C   Terms
I   Interest oil Total DOD/Total DOD                              2.5          2 2         1 9          18          1 9          2.0         2 0
2   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                  9 8          7 1         4 4          37          4 0         4 3          4 1
D   Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
I   Gross Disbursements/lmports (incl  NFS)                      23 5        20 8         20 7        31 4         17 6        22 2         14 5
2   Net Transfer/Dmports (iocl  NFS)                              6 2
3   Net Transaer/Gross Disbursements                             68 8                                 2992 28      82 I        B            HA
E.  Exposure
1.  tBRD Dibburauseuts/Gross Total Disbursements                 16.9         19.1        10 4        21 0         14 0        17.2         17.8
2   Bank Group Disburseisents/Gross Total Disbursements    19 4               21 8        14 0        28.2         37.2        37 8         31 6
3   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           12 2         13 4        12 4         15 4        15 1        16 3         17.3
4   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     23 1         23 8        21 1         24 2        25 7         29 3        31 3
5   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         10.2         15.3        20 4        26 4         34 1        33 1         40 5
6   Baink Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                  11 1         16 3        22 5        28 4         36 5        35 5         43 5
Outstandint December 31, 19tZ
Amount              Percent
(US $ Million)
F   External Debt (Disbursed Onily)
I   IBtD                                                                     209 9                      173
2.  Bank Group                                                                379 2                    313
3   Other Multilateral                                                         61 2                      50
4   Governments                                                               714 1                    589
of which Centrally Plained Economies                                  317.3                     26 2
5   Suppliers                                                                  16 5                      14
6.  Financial Institutionis                                                    18 8                      1.5
7   Bonds                                                                     20 3                       1 7
8   Public Debt, n.e i         1/                                               3 1                      6.3
9   Total Public M & LT Debt1                                               1213 1                    100 0
10   Total Public Debt (incl  undisbursed)-                                  1806 4                    148 9
G   Debt Profile
I   Total D,bt Service 1979-83/Total DOD t5nd of 1978                         60 5%
1/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 40% of EAC debt                                                                                                          ElIDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit                                                                                         January 2, 1980



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.         Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed               77.20         96.76
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                 10.80     0.55
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                               10.30      1.15
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                       18.50     1.01
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                          17.50     5.95
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                         21.00                   1.31
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                               8.50     0.82
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                            10.20      1.73
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                               10.00     3.27
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                              9.00                   0.27
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                          10.00      5.66
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                           15.00                   1.74
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         15.00                   1.37
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                             6.00     1.82
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                          18.00     9.06
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                 11.00     5.83
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                   30.00             0.80
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                           7.00                   2.70
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                        9.00     6.86
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                               8.00     1.09
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                15.00                   6.04
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex             11.50             2.57
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex   11.50                       1.92
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                      7.20      5.22
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                      12.00    10.78
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                       15.00    10.19
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         15.00                   2.01
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                               27.50      9.42
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                               14.00    12.04
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                  12.00      8.77
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                  25.00                  24.71
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                               20.00    17.62
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                          14.00    13.17
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                 12.00    11.87
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                         30.00    22.05
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper           30.00                   29.65
876-TA    1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                  20.50    20.50
1745-TA    1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.             11.00                   6.70
1750-TA    1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         25.00-/                21.32
S-24-TA    1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                  2.50     1.67
987-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                       10.00    10.00
1007-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                      10.00    10.00
1015-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                        43.00    43.00
1037-TA 4/ 1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                 14.00    14.00
S-27-TA    1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum                          30.00    22.29
1056-TA    1980  Tanzania  Education VII                                   25.00    25.00
1060-TA6/  1981  Tanzania  Second Technical Assistance                    11.00    11.00
1070-TA4/6/1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot                                   6.80      6.80
Total                                                   276.70 41.50 581.06
of which has been repaid                              13.67    -    8.34
Total now outstanding                                263.03 41.50 572.72
Amount sold                          .09
of which has been repaid           .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                       263.03 41.50 572.58
Total undisbursed                                        99.74  3.37 330.19   433.30
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.20 million of which $5.63 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of approximately US$4.2 million equivalent.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/ Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.
6/ Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1981
(US$ million)
Loan                                               Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower        Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.40
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours             35.00              0.52
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways             42.40              0.03
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours             26.50              0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.50               0.53
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.00               3.38
Total                                          244.80              4.81
of which has been repaid                    63.02
Total now outstanding                          181.78
Amount sold                     24.36
of which has been repaid      24.36            0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                      181.78
Total undisbursed                                4.81               4.81
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(as of February 28, 1981)
There are currently 44 projects under execution in, Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project:  US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea Authority
(TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing and this has
had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved control over
field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all factories.
Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha
of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and
yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976 survey of the
tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and effective rehabili-
tation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba area. Recommenda-
tions of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry techniques, field organi-
zation, TTA structure and extension activities are also being implemented. In
general, progress on the project is improving.  Since eligible disbursements
will be completed within three months of the closing date, this date was
not postponed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. In the meat processing component,
the settlement of a dispute between the Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
and the contractor enabled completion of the meat plant in Kawe; the two new
meat plantsin Shinyanga and Mbeya will be completed by June 1981. There is
little change in other project components, where major difficulties remain to
be resolved. Since the Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within three
months of the Closing Date of December 31, 1980, this date was not postponed.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project has continued to show good progress. However, in view
of the failure of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the
project must now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research
project rather than an agricultural production project. A major objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The
most significant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well
distributed and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruit-
ment of staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. However, the project continues to face problems
arising from a sharp decline in the marketed production of raw nuts. The
producer price has been recently increased and the Cashewnut Authority (CATA)
is considering the introduction of additional incentive and tree-planting
schemes for farmers, but these measures are not likely to have a significant
impact for several years. As a result, the completed cashewnut factories are
expected to operate well below capacity for a number of years.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Despite senior staff changes in the Region and continuing procure-
ment constraints, construction of agricultural and other training facilities,
as well as water supply and feeder roads, is proceeding satisfactorily. The
coffee rehabilitation and expansion program, and the land-use surveying and
mapping, are also making reasonable progress. While the keeping of crop
records is not yet regular or systematic, there has been a substantial increase



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
in maize, bean and cotton production in the Project area. However, the
village fertilizer trials have yet to produce conclusive results, and
recommendations for recasting the trials are under review. The Project is not
likely to be completed before June 30, 1982. Consequently, the closing date
has been p.stponed to December 31, 1983.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Physical work on the project has been completed.  The 1979/80 planting
campaign had a difficult start owing to excessive rains between November 1978
and May 1979, and sugar production was twenty percent lower than the targetted
level. Production is likely to decline even further during 1980/81, owing to
a shortage of equipment and spare parts in the older of the two estates (not
covered by the project) and poor planning. There has been a general deteriora-
tion in management of the Kilombero Sugar Company, which the Government is now
trying to correct. The sugar survey has been completed and discussions were
recently held in Dar es Salaam to explore a possible follow-up project centered
on the rehabilitation of the existing estates rather than on expansion of
existing productive and processing capacity. Ex-factory sugar prices were
recently raised and are expected to be increased again very soon to permit some
improvement in the financial situation of sugar producers.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow pace.
There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial
Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and
a postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities (pending adequate
fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). However, engines for the coastal vessels
have been received and are being assembled for installation. Loans to five
villages have been approved by TRDB under the Ujamaa Village Program.
Agreement has been reached with the Crown Agents of the U.K. for the pro-
vision of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some progress with regard to village
participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high potential maize
regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome if the
project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm review of



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft proposal for a
three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential for increasing
production exists, extending the project period from July 1979 to June 1982.
The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify the project
activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the project has been
agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
There was a marked improvement in project implementation during 1980.
The technical and financial situation of most of the project beneficiaries
improved as a result of better cost control, increased Government equity
financing, and a substantial increase in the milk price. Dry mid-season
weather somewhat reduced projected yields for 1980, but nevertheless total
annual milk yields from all parastatals under the project have increased by
about 50% per annum since 1976. The rate of total yield increase naturally
shows signs of flattening out as farms approach their carrying capacities and
as cows near their productive potential under existing environmental and
management conditions. Disbursement for Ujamaa villages has improved and 55
smallholder loans have been made.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
After a slow start and serious management problems during the
first year, project implementation has improved considerably and is now
ahead of schedule. Plantation targets have been exceeded in spite of labor
shortages, a lack of equipment and a prolonged drought during the last
planting season. All key staff have been appointed and there are no serious
procurement or disbursement problems.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT-s financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC-s accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result of
severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel fuel.
These shortages have affected all components, except land-use planning which
is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply programs have been
the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages of technical staff.
The agricultural trials and production program, too, appears to have been
disrupted by the recent drought. Project management is attempting to resolve
the materials shortages by increasing the use of local substitutes. However,
overall progress in institution-building is likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory con-
struction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However, the
appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at exist-
ing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the First
Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full capacity
are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Closing
Date - December 31, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of October 24, 1080; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
All facilities have been completed with the exception of three
Community Education Centers. The project is expected to be completed and
the credit fully disbursed within three to four months after the revised
Closing Date of December 31, 1980. This date was, therefore, not postponed.
All completed facilities are in operation with the exception of the Bagamoyo
College of National Education which will be used for the in-service training
of primary school science teachers.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. The Village
Management Technicians' training program was completed on schedule in
July 1980 with 1,500 technicians trained. The primary education subsector
review and the secondary education facilities survey are in progress. Prepara-
tion of diversified curricula for general secondary education and staffing
plans for the project secondary schools are also in preparation. There are
reasonable prospects that the project will be completed by its Closing Date.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The Ministry of Labor has appointed a representative to the Project
Unit and is working with the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating
project implementation, is still largely in the design phase. Due to the
rapid increase in construction cost, the cost of civil works to be financed
under the project is estimated to be at least 40% above appraisal estimate..
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Education Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
This credit became effective on December 29, 1980.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of
a project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the rehabi-
litation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. It was necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to
address the problems which have been encountered in its implementation; these
changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway Project. The
previous Closing Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31,
1982 to allow for completion of the project and the disbursement. The
technical assistance contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in
November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting individual experts to
complete the project.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on December 3, 1980 and will involve
follow-up to Credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of the national trunk
road system. All three key advisers and six key local staff are now in post.
In addition, ten individual specialists for various other technical assistance
positions have been recruited.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
August 13, 1980 Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit became effective on August 13, 1980 and is progressing
well.  The consultants have submitted a number of reports and drawings to the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) for its review and comment. The only
major problem is the need for sound planning and coordination in commissioning
the new oil jetty, to ensure that the necessary pipeline link to the refinery
and the existing network will be completed and ready for use at the same time
as the jetty. This matter has been discussed with THA, and it has been asked
to decide on who will prepare the design of this associated work, carry out
the actual site work, and provide the foreign exchange financing required.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. As the remaining balance under
the Credit of US$1,713,650 is expected to be fully disbursed within three to
four months after the December 31, 1980 closing date, this date was not post-
poned.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates.  These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods priot to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Project construction is on schedule-at all sites. TANESCO has



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost is
US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost over-
run of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. An EEC Special Action Credit (No. 55-7A) in the amount of US$7.0
million, to be administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
This Credit became effective on September 12, 1980 and most bidding
documents have been received and approved. Drilling of the onshore well began
in January 1981, slightly behind schedule because of shipment delay. Drilling
of the offshore well has not started because no bids were received. Both
the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and the drilling manage-
ment consultants are actively pursuing all avenues for the acquisition of a
contract rig capable of meeting the requirements.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
This loan is fully committed. However, because of slow implemen-
tation of some of the sub-projects financed by TIB under this project, the
closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 in order to finalize
disbursement. The undisbursed balance remaining under the loan to date is
US$1,463,031.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Total commitments as of March 31, 1980 were US$4.74 million (net of
cancellations) for consultancy services, training and project unit services.
The procedures for processing proposals have been streamlined and are working
well. The credit will be fully committed by December 1980. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1981 in order to complete disbursement.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of
this project is being administered by IDA.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - April 15, 1980
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Site preparation and procurement have been proceeding satisfactorily,
with the contract for the main civil/structural work signed and most of the
major equipment packages awarded. Good progress has also been made in arranging
construction of the necessary railway spur and escarpment roads. As a result
of currency fluctuations, delays in infrastructure development outside the
project (such as a power line and the new township), and unanticipated
Government taxes, the project cost has increased by about 15%. This overrun
is to be met by contingent financing from the Nordic Investment Bank and from
savings achieved by the Government on equipment packages. Preparation has
begun for implementing a training program and obtaining technical assistance
for operating the mill.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project:
US$11 million credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981: Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been com-
pleted; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage of
the project-s completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$31.89 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$10.13 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF February 28, 1981
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing        3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.97    0.69    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.70    0.55    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            0.58      _      0.58



- 55 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Presentation to IDA:           March 1980
(b)  First IDA Mission to identify
and prepare project                  March 1980
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission       October 1980
(d)  Completion of Negotiations           March 1981
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness        April 1981
Section II. Special Association Implementation Actions
Provision is being made in the proposed credit for US$5 million
in retroactive financing to help the Government expedite orders to agri-
cultural packing materials, which are needed to allow clearance of stockpiled
cotton and cashewnuts from up-country storage facilities.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government will complete a study of its agricultural producer
price system by August 31, 1981, and on the basis of this study,
as well as its annual reviews of such prices, adjust them to
provide appropriate incentives for producers (paragraph 49).
(b) The Government will maintain a Special Agricultural Account at the
Bank of Tanzania to meet the import requirements of the agricultural
sector (paragraph 52).
(c) The Government will implement an export credit guarantee program
by December 31, 1981 (paragraph 56).
(d) The Government will recruit an External Trade Policy Manager and
an Export Promotion and Publicity Manager by December 31, 1981
(paragraph 56).
(e)  The Government will formulate by September 30, 1980, and thereafter
implement, a satisfactory action program to strengthen its
agricultural support services (paragraph 61).



EXPORT PROJECTIONS
(Volume in '000 tons; Unrt value in US$/ton, Value in US$ million)
1980                              1981                               1982
Volume   Unit Value   Value       Volume   Unit Value   Value        Volume   Unit Value   Value
Coffee                             41         3600        146         52         2500       130         55          2650        146
Tea                                16         1500         24         17         1400         24         18         1500         27
Cotton                             38         1700         65         36         2000         72        40          2100         84
Tobacco                             8         1800         15          8         1800         15          8         1800         15
Cashew Nuts                        15          700         11          6          700          4          4          700          3
Cashew Kernels                      5         3000         15          8         3000         24         10         3000         30
Sisal Fiber                        65          700         45         65          700        45         65           700         46
Cloves                              6         7500         45          3         8000         24          5         8000         40
Cereals and Animal Feed                                     5                                -                                   10
Vegetable Seeds                                            15                                 15                                 15
Sugar                                                       6                                  8                                  8            1
Other Primary Products                                     20                                 22                                 25           un
Total Primary Products                                    412                                383                                449
Sisal Cordage and Twine            25         1300         33         30         1300         39        32         1380          44
Petroleum Products                                         28                                 20                                 22
Diamonds                                                   45                                50                                  55
Textiles and Garments                                      20                                 22                                 30
Leather Products and Shoes                                  4                                  6                                 10
Other Manufactured Goods                                   20                                 25                                 32
Total Manufactured Goods                                  150                               162                                 193
Re-Exports                                                 10                                10                                  10
TOTAL EXPORTS                                             572                               555                                652
Source:  World Bank estimates



N
Graph 1: PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS OF MAJOR CROPS
(in '000 tons)
COFFEE                                                  TEA                                                 COTTCN#
ilO                      --3 (-                                                  r-                        t60
290    i 93          t9' '      197t7     t9 9        1066      193        1975       19717      19 '9      t96         1975- 1951977                  1i9'9
SISALA                                               CASHEWSbi                                             TOBACCOC
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                           30 L      t:
C.0
IN,t-t- 1                                0/T    w.-1   2,.rzf - C
4/ Extports Include fiber                           i JE.por is Include nu1             ,\.-
adcordage and tgin                                    and Inut ttriuvabn)      '   '                        r; PIIoduction ha  been
l   l                                ~~~~~~~     ~      ~     ~~~~kerr/eei   | ,              lagged one year
Sti40t i ^ ; I l 50 si i_ 1 1 1 # ' O it j                                                                                               I
t96B   V  1973        t1975     1977      1979        1966       S 1973   1975       1977       1979       1966       1973       1975       tY71       1979
SOVAfCES Slatistial Appnix Tables 3.4 and 7. t                              Productior, ty Crop Year 
.I- -          *', El-                    PrJrIS l5V Calendar Ysia(rWorld Bank - 72028
. C



MARKETED PRODUCTION OF FOOD CROPS, 1974/75 - 79/80
( OOO's of tons)
Crops                  Previous       1974/75       1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79       1979/80
Max.
Maize                    186.9           23,9          91.1         127.4         214.2         222.3         161.5
Paddy                     93.6           22.7          18.3          22.4          52.3          52.0          46.5
Wheat                     56.8           14.4          24.5          23.0          35.0          27.5          26.5
Groundnuts                 3.5             .5            .5            .4           1.4           2.6
Sesame                     8.2            5.8           5.9           5.9           6.6           6.6
Sunflower                  9.5            7.0           6.9           5.9           7.1          12.0             ..
Sorghum                    n.a.           1.9           2.9          10.1          33.6          58.6          20.7
Millet                     n.a.           2.5           2.2          10.8          39.1          39.7          16.9
Cassava                    n,a.          17.-3         16.5          19.9          36.9          63.8          44.2
Source:  Marketing Development Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture.
Not available.



- 59 -
Annex VII
AGRICULTURAL PRICE INDICES
(1969/70=100)
In Current T.Sh.          In 1969/70 T.Sh.A/
1975/76   1978/79   1981/82  1975/76  1978/79
Official Producer Price Indices
Maize                             286       304        429      142      107
Paddy                             192       231        385       96       81
Wheat                             175       219        333       87       77
Sorghum/Bullrush Millet b/        250       333        333     124       117
Cotton (AR)                       182       218        336      91        77
Ca.hew Nuts (SG)                  111       179        316      55        63
Tobacco (flue)                    136       144        234      68        51
Tea (green leaf) b/               130       220        220       65       77
Pyrethrum (grade 3)               140       167        367       70       59
Average Export Unit Values
Cotton                            271       311                157       134
Cashew Nuts                       132       259                 66        91
Tobacco                           210       267                104        94
Tea                               185       180                 92        63
Pyrethrum Flowers                 112                           56
a/  Calculated by deflating official producer prices by National Consumer
Price Index.
b/ Index is based on 1972/73.
Sources: Bank of Tanzania, Economic Surveys; Ministry of Agriculture,
Marketing Development Bureau; Customs Department, Annual Trade Reports



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
TANZANIA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Special Agricultural Account
List of Eligible Enterprises
Coffee                                     Food Crops
Coffee Authority of Tanzania               National Agricultural and Food
Tanganyika Coffee Curing Co.                 Corporation (NAFCO)
Bukop Ltd.                                 National Milling Corporation
Kilombero Sugar Co.
Cotton                                    Kagera Sugar Co.
Mtibwa Sugar Estates
Tanzania Cotton Authority                  Tanganyika Planting Co. (TPC)
Sisal Fiber                               Vehicle and Tractor Dealers
Tanzania Sisal Authority                   State Motor Corporation
Amboni Limited                            Agricultural and Industrial
Karimjee Jivanjee Estates                    Supplies Corporation (AISCO)
Tea
Tanzania Tea Authority
Brooke Bond Liebig Tanzania               Others
George Williamson Tanzania
Mufindi Tea Co.                           General Tyre East Africa
Tanzania Tea Blenders                     Metal Box Tanzania
Tanzania Bag Corporation
Cashew                                    Ubungo Farm Implements
Tanzania Fertilizer Company
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania           General Agricultural Products Export
Tanzania Cashew Co.                          Corporation (GAPEX)
Mtwara Cashew Co.                                                                          A
Tanita Co.
Tobacco
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
Tanzania Tobacco Processing Co.
Pyrethrum
Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
Tanzania Extract Co.



