DoCumENT S
DIT NUMBER 1133 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Export Rehabilitation Program)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       p    h                  , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1133 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ph    ;.ZL(    , 1981, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has taken measures to strengthen its export
sector, including, inter alia, the following: adjustments in the
producer prices for coffee and sisal and the removal of the
production tax on tobacco; establishment of a special agricultural
account; improvements in the foreign exchange allocation system;
preparation of a time table for the updating of the financial
accounts of major agricultural parastatal organizations; and
introduction of measures to promote non-traditional exports;
(C) the Borrower intends to take further measures to support
its export rehabilitation program and to prepare structural
changes in its economy, which measures are summarized in the
Memorandum of Understanding of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "BOT" means Bank of Tanzania, the Borrower's central
bank;
(b) "BET" means Board of External Trade, established by
the Board of External Trade Act, Cap 5 of 1978, which is respon-
sible for advising the Borrower on external trade matters;
(c) "Tanzanian Shillings" means the currency of the
Borrower; and
(d) "Special Agricultural Account" means the account estab-
blished on April 15, 1981 by the Borrower in the Bank of Tanzania.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 40,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement bet'ieen the Borrower and the Association
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods
included in such Schedule and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods costing more than $5,000,000 equivalent
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of procedures that include broad international
tendering amongst suppliers from the Bank's member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan and contract award to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. Before requesting a withdrawal of proceeds of
the Credit on account of any such contract, the Borrower shall
cause the Association to be furnished with a brief report, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the procedures
followed in procuring such contract. If the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procedures followed in procuring
such contract are inconsistent with the procedures set forth or


﻿-3-
referred to in this Section, no expenditures under such contract
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. The Associa-
tion shall promptly inform the Borrower of, and state the reasons
for, any such determination.,
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1991, and ending
March 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BOT is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall entrust BOT with responsibility for
the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and the
preparation of withdrawal applications for the Credit. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, each of such applications
shall include evidence satisfactory to the Association of the
importation into Tanzania of the goods for which financing is
requested under such application and of the date of such
importation.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action,
including the expeditious granting of import licenses, as shall be
necessary or convenient to facilitate the timely importation of
the goods to be financed out of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the Project
Account) with BOT and shall, upon each withdrawal from the Credit
Account, deposit or cause to be deposited in such Project Account
in accordance with appropriate financial procedures the equivalent
in Tanzanian Shillings of the currency or currencies withdrawn
from the Credit Account (such equivalent to be determined as
of the respective dates of such withdrawals). The amounts so
deposited in the Project Account shall be used exclusively to
finance the local currency capital or recurrent costs of rural
development related projects being carried out by the Borrower
and included in its central government budget.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to
be insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the point of entry into
Tanzania, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the purchaser or importer to replace
or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to examine any relevant records and documents in connection
with the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning


﻿- 5 -
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credkt and the
goods financed out of such proceeds and their procurement.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project Account
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not later than September 30,
1981, establish within BOT and thereafter maintain a unit,
which shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) monitoring and
reporting on (A) all grants received from governments, public
agencies and international organizations and (B) all external
debt obligations undertaken by government ministries, parastatal
organizations and private borrowers and (ii) annually preparing
and updating of projections of the foreign exchange estimated to
be needed in the following 10 years to service such external debt
obligations.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than June 30,
1981, furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a
draft export credit guarantee program and shall, not later than
December 31, 1981, implement such export credit guarantee program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BET (i) by Decem-
ber 31, 1981 to fill the positions of External Trade Policy
Manager and Export Promotion and Publicity Manager with qualified
and experienced personnel and (ii) in case of any vacancy in any
of BET's professional staff positions after such date, promptly
fill such vacancy with qualified and experienced staff.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall not later than September 30,
1981, formulate and thereafter implement an action program
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, to streangthen
its agricultural support services.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall (i) maintain the Special
Agricultural Account established with BOT to meet the import
requirements of the agricultural sector and (ii) ensure that, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, it
will make available to the said account (A) during the period
April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1982, from its own resources, an
aggregate amount in foreign e-change equivalent to US$50 million
and (B) during the period April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983 and
during each subsequent twelve month period, an aggregate amount in
foreign exchange of not less than 15 percent of all receipts from
the sale of its major export crops (i.e. coffee, tea, sisal,
cotton, tobacco and cashewnuts) during such period.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall (i).-not later than
August 31, 1981, in accordance with terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, complete a study of its system of setting
producer prices for food and export crops, taking into account
especially the effect of fuel, transportation and other marketing
costs in the determination of such prices and (ii) based on this
study and on the annual reviews of its producer prices, adjust
such prices to provide adequate incentives for agricultural
producers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BOT to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project and the
Project Account.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BOT: (i) to have the Project
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) a certified
statement of the Project Account for such year as so audited and


﻿-7-
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the Project Account and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date                I         , is hereby
specified for purposes of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05, 3.07, 3.09 and 3.10 (ii) of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam


﻿- 8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By   5     Pa         (3   oc*04,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By ~~ (s  09Q;      PR. 4)            0444Q4~c
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the alloca-
tion of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                          SDR Equivalent)
(1) Agricultural                         14,720,000
equipment and
machinery,
replacement
parts and spares
(2) Unprocessed                          12,260,000
rubber and agri-
cultural packing
materials, in-
cluding tin
plate and jute
bags
(3) Agricultural                           1,660,000
chemicals,
including coffee
fungicide
(4) Vehicle replace-                     12,260,000
ment parts
TOTAL           40,900,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 10 -
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b) t)ayments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(c) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
$5,000,000 equivalent may be made on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after November 15, 1980;
(d) payment for contracts of less than $10,000 equivalent;
or
(e) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or any
other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of (i) the rehabilitation of the
Borrower's agricultural export industries and support for food
production by improving the operation and maintenance of existing
productive and processing capacity in the agricultural sector
through the provision of foreign exchange for the importation into
Tanzania of essential equipment and materials and (ii) the streng-
thening of the Borrower's institutions and procedures to monitor
and control its foreign exchange resources and obligations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    4L      day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


