Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
gZ~ /9S A3 - MAV
Report No. 7213-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
June 28, 1988
Pop lation and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.0 - UM 72.6
MEASURES
1 m = 1.09 yd.
1 m2 - 10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
BOM       -    Bureau of Organization and Management
CAFM      -    Center for Apprenticeship and Training
CET       -    Technical Education College
CFPCEG    -    Teacher Training College for Lower Secondary School
Teachers
CFPM      -    Maritime Training Center
CFPP      -    Vocational Training and Upgrading Center
CSET      -    Center for Higher Technical Education
DP        -    Personnel Directorate
DPC       -    Directorate of Educational Planning and Cooperation
DREF      -    Regional Inspectorate for Primary Education
EDF       -    European Developme~ Fund
ENS       -    Secondary Teaches araining College
FIAP      -    Federation des 1dustries et Armements de POche
ISS       -    Higher Institute of Science
IPN       -    National Pedagogical Institute
LEP       -    Lycee of Professional Training
MEN       -    Ministry of Education
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
SCS       -    School Construction Service
SNIM      -    Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
ZEE       -    Exclusive Economic Zone
FISCAL YEAR                              SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                      October - June



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY        .............i
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................         1
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR ................................         1
A. Educational Structure        ..1......... 
B. Main Education and Manpower Issues ..............           1
1.  Low and Inequitable Development of Primary
Education .................................          1
2.  Poor External Efficiency of Secondary
and Higher Education ......................          2
3.  Poor Quality of Education .................           4
4.  Severe Financial Constraints and High
Unit Costs ................................          5
5.  Weak Planning and Management Capacity .....           7
C.  The Government's Sectoral Strategy .............           7
D.  The Bank Group's Role ..........................           8
III. THE PROJECT .........................................         9
A.   Project Objectives and Description .............          9
1.  Sectoral Adjustment Program ...............          9
2.  Expansion of, access to, and improvement
in the quality and relevance of primary
education .................................         11
3.  Improved internal and external efficiency
of secondary and higher education .........         14
4.  Strengthening of planning and managerial
capacities of key Ministries responsible
for education and training activities .....        19
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan       .      .           21
C. Project Implementation            .         .             21
1.  Project Readiness, Management and
Institution Building ......................        21
2.  Procurement, Disbursement and Special
Account ...................................         23
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................         25
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............         26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mauritania in January/February 1988. The mission members were Birger Fredriksen
(mission leader; sr. economist/education planner); Bernard Abeille (architect/
implementation specialist); Steve Berkman (technical/vocational training
specialist); Diana Risen (operations assistant); Alain Mingat (economist/
consultant); and Jmrn Mygind (science education/consultant). This report was
drafted by the mission members and completed by Hr. Fredriksen. Ms. Sabrina
Mazza was responsible for the processing of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
ANNEX
1-1 Basic Data
1-2 Selected Documents Available in the Project File
2-1 Structure of the Educational System
2-2 Statistical Profile of the Education System
2-3 Comparative Education Indicators
2-4 Enrollment and Graduates in Secondary and Higher Education
2-5 Financial Implications of Educational Policies
2-6 Trends in Scholarship Budgets for Secondary and Higher Education
2-7 Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Education
3-1 Criteria for Review of Sectoral Adjustment Program
3-2 Primary School Construction and Maintenance Program
3-3 Textbook Development Program for Primary and General Secondary Education
3-4 In-Service Teacher Training for Primary and General Secondary Education
3-5 Experimentation with Double-Shift Teaching in Primary Schools
3-6 Strengthening of Regional Inspectorates (DREP)
3-7 Science Teaching in General Secondary Education
3-8 Science Teaching in Higher Education
3-9 Restructuring of Technical Education
3-10 Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP)
3-11 Maritime Training Center (CFPM)
3-12 Summary of support to Strengthen the Planning and Management
Capacity of the Ministry of Education
3-13 Summary of Support to Strengthen the Human Resources Divisions
in Ministry of Economy and Finance and in the Ministry of Fisheries
3-14 Project Cost and Financing Plan
3-15 Summary of Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Savings Generated
by the Project
3-16 Project Management and Responsibilities for Project Coordination
3-17 Implementation Schedule
3-18 Summary of Civil Works
3-19 Summary of Local and Foreign Specialist Services
3-20 Summary of Local and Foreign Training
3-21 Procurement Procedures
3-22 Disbursement Profile
3-23 Government and Local Contributions
MAP IBRD 20862



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:   Ministries of Education, Fisheries, Labor and Finance
Credit Amounts SDR 13.2 million (US$18.2 million equivalent)
Termss         Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect
Descriptions   The project would assist the Government to implement reforms
designed to correct distortions in costs and resource
allocation in the education sector and to improve the
quality and relevance of education. In addition to thereby
helping lay the foundations for long-term development of the
education system consistent with economic and fiscal
realities, the project would help Mauritania maintain an
acceptable level of investment in the education sector
during this period of financial stringency. To ensure
attainment of project objectives and help finance recurrent
costs entailed by project investments, the Government and
IDA have agreed on a sectoral adjustment program that would:
(a) control and redirect enrollment growth in secondary
general and higher education in line with expected resource
availability and labor market demands, and to increase the
share of the education budget allocated to primary
education; (b) promote more efficient use of existing
education resources; and (c) stimulate increased private
financing of education. Within the framework of this
adjustment program, the project woulds
1.   Exvand access to. and improve the quality and relevance
of, primary education by:
(a)  assisting local communities, through provision of
matching contributions, to (i) construct 250
classrooms using low-cost building techniques and
designs to be developed under the project; and
(ii) rehabilitate 50 classrooms;
(b)  improving the efficiency of the learning process
through (i) strengtheni'%, if the national capacity
to develop, procure and     ribute low-cost
textbooks and teachers'  -. s; and (ii) provision
of in-service trainiig f - teachers; and
(c) promoting a more efficient ,se of existing
resources through (i) introducing the use of



multi-grade teaching in rural areas and double-shift
teaching in urban areas; (ii) strengthening the
capacity of the 13 primary school inspectorates to
manage resources and monitor the quality of
instructiont and (iii) transferring one of Mauritania's
two primary school teacher training colleges to an area
of the country where enrollment ratios are lowest,
especially for girls.
2.   Imorove the internal and external efficiency of
secondary and higher education bys
(a) improving the quality of science teaching in
general secondary education through revision of
programs, provision of in-service teacher training
and science textbooks, creation of pilot science
blocks in three lycees, renovation of about 100
classrooms, and provision of a kit of basic
science equipment to all secondary schools;
(b) strengthening the teaching of natural sciences in
higher education through (i) rehabilitation and
construction of supplementary facilities, and
provision of pedagogical equipment and materials
for the Higher Institute of Science CISS); and
(ii) provision of pedagogical equipment for the
Secondary Teacher Training College (ENS);
(c) restructuring and improving the quality and
relevance of technical education through
(i) revision of training programs in technical
secondary schools (by upgrading entry requirements
from completion of primary to completion of lower
secondary education, shortening programs from
three to two years, and reorienting their content
to respond to demands for trained manpower in
growth sectcrs in the economy); tii) reinforcement
of the two existing technical secondary schools
(by introducing the new programs, reorienting
enrollments in line with labor market demands and
providing equipment and training materials);
(iii) establishing two new schools -- one
providing programs for the comercial sector and
the other, programs to support the rural economy
in the south; and (iv) strengthening the Center of
Higher Technical Education (CSET);
td) strengthening and diversifying vocational training
programs to upgrade skills of workers in the



- iii -
industrial and commercial sectors through
reinforcement and expansion of the Vocational
Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP); and
(e) establishing vocational training programs for the
fishing sector through expansion of the Maritime
Training Center (CFPM).
3.   Strengthening 2lanning and managerial canabilities of
kev Ministries responsible for education and training
bys
(a) developing the capacity of the Ministry of
Education to plan and manage resource use and to
develop and implement policy reforms through
reinforcement of the services of the Ministry in
charge of planning, budgeting, personnel
management and cost control;
(b) developing the Government's capacity to better
coordinate the provision of training programs with
demand for trained manpower through reinforcement
of the Human Resource Divisions in the Ministries
of Finance, Labor and Fisheries; and
Cc) maintaining the Government's capacity to prepare
and implement education projects through continued
support to the existing Project Coordination Unit.



- iv -
Summarv and Proiect Cost Estimates
(net of taxes and duties)
Local Foreign Total
(US$ million)
1.   Expansion and Improvement of Primary Education
(a) Construction of 250 clsss.'ooms and
rehabilitation of 50 classrooms                 2.1     1.4      3.5
(b)  Provision of textbooks end teacher training   0.6       2.3      2.9
(c)  More efficient resource use                     1.2     2.8      4.0
Sub-total                                  4.0     6-.5    10.4
2.  - Improved Internal and External Efficiency of
Secondary and Higher Education
(a)  Science teaching in secondary education         0.3     1.8      2.1
(b)  Sciesice teaching in higher education           0.7     2.7      3.4
(c)  Restructuring and improvement in quality
and relevance of technical educttion            0.6     3.7      4.3
(d) Strengthening and diversificationn of
vocational upgrading programs                   0.1      0.7     0.8
(e)  Creation of vocational training pro-
grams for industrial fisheries sector           0.5     4.7      5.2
Sub-total                                  2.1    13.6    15.7
3.   Strengthen Education Sector Planning
and Management Capacity
(a) Development of Ministry of Education's
capacity to plan and manage resource use        0.2     1.7      1.9
(b) Improve coordination of provision of
training with labor market demands              0.0     0.6      0.6
(c)  Project Coordination Unit                       0.6     1.3      1.9
Sub-total                                  0.8     3.6     4.4
Total Base Costs                                          6.9    23.7    30.6
Physical Contingencies                                    0.6      1.9     2.5
Price Contingencies                                        1.5     2.9     4.3
Sub-total                                  2.1     4.8     6.8
Total Project Costs                                       9.0    28.4    37.4
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                  4.8    13.4    18.2
AfDB                                                 2.1    14.9    17.0
Government                                           0.7      0.0     0.7
Local Communities/Private Sector                     1.4      0.2     1.6
Total                                                9.0    28.5    37.4
cm_=   __        - s
Note: Totals may not add up due to roundings.



v 
Estimated Disbursementss
IDA Fiscal Year
1989       1990      1991      1992       1993     1994
----------------------USS million---------------------
Annual          1.3         1.5       1.8       3.2        6.3      4.1
Cumalative      1.3         2.8       4.6       7.8      14.1      18.2
Economic Rate
of Return:       Not applicable.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks.       The sectoral adjustment program would help reallocate
education resources in favor of primary education, thus
ensuring an adequate level of investment in basic
education services during this period of overall economic
adjustment, and a redistribution in favor of the less
well-off social groups of the benefits generated by
public education spending (between school years 1986/87
and 1993/94, the primary enrollment ratio would increase
from 551 to 74Z, and the share of girls in total enroll-
ment from 401 to 44Z). Together, the project's investment
and adjustment measures would help increase the social
returns at all levels of education by improving skill
levels of the labor force, thereby increasing its contri-
bution to growth in the fishing, service and informal
sectors, and improving its mastery of the technologies
needed to exploit the country's meager agricultural and
water resources. Most students would benefit from the
project through more relevant programs, improved
availability, relevance and quality of pedagogical
materials and equipment, better trained teachers, and
improved school buildings. The main risks aret (a) the
Government's ability to contain growth of secondary and
higher education and hence to provide the resources
required to achieve the targets for growth in primary
education and for quality improvements at all levels of
education, and (b) the capacity of the economy to generate
gainful employment for technical and vocational education
graduates. To address the former risk, the sectoral
adjustment program includes specific measures to redirect
growth in enrollment and expenditures in general secondary
and higher education in line with future resource avail-
ability and labor market trends; implementation of these
measures would be monitored through joint Government/IDA
annual reviews. To minimize the latter risk, investments
are directed towards sectors where there are demonstrated
skill shortages, programs would be kept flexible to
respond to changes in labor market demands, and employers
would participate in the development of training programs
and in their financing. Also, the reinforcement of the
Government's capacity to plan and monitor the development
of the country's human resources would help minimize these
risks.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Mauritan;a has requested IDA assistance in
financing a project designed to help implement reforms designed to correct
distortions in costs and resource allocation in the education sector and to
improve the quality and relevance of education. Total project costs are
estimated at US$37.4 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of US$28.5 million. The Government would
contribute US$0.7 million, the private sector US$1.6 million, the African
Development Bank (AfDB) would cofinance with US$17.0 million, and the
remainder, US$18.2 million, would be financed by IDA.
1.2       The project would be IDA's third contribution to the development
of education and training in Mauritania, and the first in support of
structural adjustment in this sector. The adjustment measures and
accompanying investments were developed through a sector policy dialogue
conducted with the Mauritanian authorities over the past two years.  The
Basic Data Sheet is found in Annex 1-1.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.  Educational Structure
2.1       A six-year primary cycle is followed by general secondary
education comprising two three-year cycles, and by higher education at the
University of Nouakchott, five post-secondary professional schools, or
abroad. While still important, the Koranic schools have seen their
traditionally important role decline during the last decade following the
rapid urbanization brought about by the drought. Primary school teachers
are trained in two teacher training colleges, and secondary school teachers
are trained at the University and at the Secondary Teacher Training College
(ENS). Technical education is provided in two schools at the secondary
level and in one at the post-secondary level. At all levels of education,
instruction is provided in two separate streams, Arabic and bilingual
(Arabic and French). The Arabic stream accounts for 81Z of primary school
enrollment and 712 of secondary school enrollment. While the Ministry of
National Education (MEN) is responsible for most formal education, several
technical ministries run their own training programs. Annex 2-1 shows the
structure of the educational system.
B.   Main Education and Manpower Issues
1.   Low and Inequitable Development of Primary Education
2.2       Given its weak natural resource base and acute ecological
problems, Mauritania needs to give the highest attention to the development
of its human resources, starting with primary education. While enrollment
at this level has grown rapidly in the 1980s (8.92 annually between 1980181



- 2 -
sad 1986/87 -- 9.9? for girls and 8.22 for boys , Mauritania's enrollment
ratio of 552 (442 when repeaters are excluded) is well below the African
average (about 80?) and masks marked regional disparities (in the 13
regions, the ratio ranges from below 252 to above 90?). In part, these
disparities reflect differences in the ability of local communities to
finance classroom construction, and regional differences in teacher supply.
Girls constitute 40? of primary enrollment. Further enrollment expansion,
especially in urban areas, is severely constrained by limited capacity as
evidenced by overcrowded classes (average class size is 55; 422 of the
pupils are enrolled in classes that have more than 70 pupils), and severe
restrictions on new admissions at the start of each school year (more than
50? of all schools have only one classroom and admit children only once
every sixth year). The recent drought has caused a sharp increase in rural
to urban migration and in sedentarization of the nomadic population. This
has accentuated the pressure on the limited available capacity in urban
areas. In many rural areas, the migration has caused even lower population
density and thus rendered provision of education more costly (19? of
existing classrooms have less than 30 pupils). Severe budgetary
constraints for the education sector, combined with a marked decline in the
share of the education budget devoted to primary education (from 46Z in
1975 to 32? in 1987), makes it difficult to expand supply to meet demand.
Annex 2-2 provides basic education statistics for Mauritania, and Annex 2-3
shows comparative education indicators for other countries.
2.   Poor External Efficiency of Secondary and Higher Education
2.3       The contribution of Mauritania's secondary and higher education
to national development is threatened by several interrelated weaknesses:
enrcllment growth has been too rapid in relation to demand for skilled
manpower and has diverted resources away from urgently needed investments
to improve education quality, and from primary education; output mix is not
well adjusted to labor market demands; quality of output is low and costs
are comparatively high. The following paragraphs highlight the urgent need
to correct these distortions, and to restructure and consolidate existing
programs in order to develop institutions that are economically and
pedagogically viable, and that respond to skill shortages in the economy.
2.4       Excessive growth.  Between school years 1980/81 and 1986/87,
enrollment in secondary aeneral education grew by 76Z (9.9? annually) and
in higher education (excluding students abroad) by 556? (37Z annually). At
the secondary level, growth was particularly high in the upper cycle
(141?), resulting in an enrollment ratio for that cycle which is almost
three times that of Senegal and four times that of other Sahelian
countries. With about 7,424 students in 1987/88 (including 1,857 abroad),
Mauritania now has the highest tertiary enrollment ratio in sub-Saharan
Africa (52). Most of this growth took place at Mauritania's only
University, which opened in 1981/82 (in Nouakchott) with 434 students, and
grew to 3,937 in 1987/88 split between two faculties: Humanities (1,861),
and Law and Economics (2,076). Annex 2-4 gives data on enrollments and
graduates for secondary and higher education.
2.5       The above rapid enrollment growth has resulted largely from two
factors. First, development of post-primary education in Mauritania is of
recent date, and the system has not yet established the selection
mechanisms common to other African countries. As a result, almost all
those who successfully complete one cycle can continue to the next.



Second, a generous scholarship policy has stimulated demand (para 2.15).
As a consequence, the number of higher education graduates will increase
sharply in the next few years. This comes at a time when the Government
has practically frozen new recruitmenit (except for teachers), the
para-public sector is compressing its labor force, and the possibilities
for employment in the formal private sector remiain very limited. Total
modern sector employment is about 46,000 (7? of the economically active
population), of which almost 601 is in the public and para-public sectors.
2.6       If no corrective action is taken, the magnitude of Mauritania's
unemployment problem among university graduates is likely to become even
more severe than in other countries in the region. In 1906, the country
had 4,208 civil servants trained at this level. The same year, there were
84 vicancies for this category, 75 of which were for teachers. This
compares to 795 graduates from national post-secondary institutions. As
the age structure of the labor force is very young, replacement needs are
minimal (about 20 annuelly for post-secondary g-aduates). A 1987 study
estimates the total public and private sector demand for such graduates at
about 250 per year during the next five years; this is less than the number
of Mauritanians who return each year from training abroad (320 in 1987).
While the Government's efforts to bring about adjustment and economic
growth should help stimulate private secto. demand for post-secondary
graduates, employment prospects for the type of graduates trained at the
University (humanities and social sciences) are likely to remain modest in
the foreseeable future. Therefore, given the country's low development of
primary education and severe budgetary constraints, training of graduates
from these fields of post-secondary education should in the future, and to
a much larger extent than in the past, compete for public funds on the
basis of labor market demands, and not on the notion that such education is
a privileged activity largely exempted from economic considerations.
2.7       Output mix.  In addition to containing overproduction of
graduates in fields of study where employment prospects are poor, there is
a need to better adjust the type and level of training provided to labor
market demands, as excess supply in some areas coexists with severe
shortages of key techni6al and managerial skills. Mauritania's modern
sector labor force comprises a high share of persons who are either trained
at the post-secondary level (12Z), or who are illiterate (28?), while the
proportion trained at the secondary level and holding positions as
middle-level cadres/technicians (18Z) or skilled workers (22?), is low (the
remaining 202 are primary school graduates). Three recent studies have
found shortages of middle-level technicians and skilled workers. Estimates
of annual demand until 1995 range from 1,300 to 1,600 for skilled workers
(normally lower secondary education graduates) and from 1,000 to 1,200 for
middle-level cadres/technicians (normally holding the baccalaureat).
2.8       While current enrollment trends would produce a number of
graduates that would exceed the above estimated demands for trained labor,
a very small part of this enrollment is in technical or scientific fields
of study. In higher education, almost all students studying in Mauritania
are enrolled in humanities and social science programs. Training in
natural sciences and mathematics has, until recently, been limited to
teacher training programs. The main objective of the newly created Higher
Institute of Science (ISS) is to provide science programs that address
skill shortages in the Hauritanian economy. However, while enrollment in
national institutions is largely in the humanities and social science



- 4 -
programs, 812 of the 1,763 students studying abroad in 1986/87 were
enrolled in medical (562 students), engineering (721), or natural science
programs (147). Therefore, any manpower shortages in these areas are only
partly due to a paucity of trained Mauritanians. As regards secondarv
education, only 4? of enrollments are in technical schools, which provide
rigid industrial programs that do not reflect changes in the structure of
the Mauritanian economy -- hence the need to restructure and diversify the
training of middle-level technicians and skilled workers away from
traditional technical schools, towards short-term vocational programs that
better respond to training needs in rural areas and in the informal sector.
However, since technical programs are more costly than general education
and because of the limited size of the labor market, such programs should
be developed in close consultation with prospective employers, and they
should be of short duration and flexible enough to allow for change when
the market for a particular skill is saturated. There is also a need to
strengthen and diversify programs designed to upgrade the skills of those
already in the work force.
3.   Poor Quality of Education
2.9       The quality of education in Mauritania is poor as evidenced by
low and declining internal efficiency and examination pass rates at all
levels of education. In primary education, the level of repetition is
14-212 in Grades 1-5 and 392 in Grade 6. Almost 302 of pupils drop out
prior to the final grade, and only about 352 of those who took the primary
school leaving examination in 1986 passed. The low efficiency is explained
by factors such as overcrowded classes (para 2.2), severe shortages of
training material (about three pupils per textbook for Arab language
classes in urban areas; even higher scarcity in rural areas and for
bilingual classes), and low quality of, and lack of support to, teachers
(teachers' guides are scarce and those available are outmoded; in-service
training is practically nonexistent and the inspectorate staff lacks the
physical means to conduct school visits).
2.10      In general secondary education, the most obvious indication of
declining quality is the falling pass rate for the baccalaureat, from 50.2?
in 1980 to 25.8? in 1987 (21.5? in the natural science stream). This low
quality of general secondary education -- which accounts for 94? of total
secondary enrollment and consumes 292 of the education budget -- severely
limits the overall contribution of education to social and economic
development. Because general programs are less costly than vocational and
technical programs, and because they provide skills that have both broad
vocational relevance (e.g., language, mathematics, science) and enhance
students' future trainability, good quality general secondary education is
of crucial importance in the development process.  In higher education, the
internal efficiency is low in all institutions, but especially at the
University where only about 222 of those who enter graduate at the end of
the four-year cycle. This low internal efficiency in post-primary
education is largely caused by low achievement levels of primary school
leavers, lack of selectivity in entry to the two cycles of secondary
education and the University, and scarcity of pedagogical materials and
equipment.  Annex 2-4 provides data on examination results in general
secondary education.



- 5 -
4.   Severe Financial Constraints and High Unit Costs
2.11      Severe budaetary constraints.  Measured in constant prices, GNP
per capita and the government budget declined during the last ten years.
The share of the government budget devoted to education increased from 182
in 1975 to 25Z in 1983, but declined to 22Z in 1987. The financial squeeze
in the education sector, arising from rigid budget ceilings and rising
costs, is likely to become even tighter in years to come. On the one hand,
the modest prospects for economic growth in the medium term and the many
competing claims on public budgets leave little room for additional public
funds foi education. On the other hand, as the school age population
increases by about 3Z a year, and the aging of the teaching force implies
an automatic annual increase in the salary budget, continuation of present
policies will necessitate more funds even to maintain present enrollment
ratios. Thus, the prospects for the expansion of and quality improvements
in primary education depend largely on the extent to which the Government
-- through increasing primary education's share of the education budget,
and more efficient use of available resources and increased private
financing -- can reallocate resources in favor of this level of education.
Simulations indicate that, if the education budget were to increase (in
real terms) by 3? a year and primary education were to maintain its present
modest share of this budget (32?), the primary enrollment ratio would
decline from 55? in 1986187 to 46? in 1993/94 (Annex 2-5).
2.12      High unit recurrent costs.  In the early 1980s, education costs
in Mauritania were among the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. 'While measures
taken by the Government in recent years have caused costs to decline, they
still remain comparatively high in secondary and higher education. In
secondary education, the high costs are largely due tot (a) generous
provision of non-teaching staff (252 and 19? of all salary costs in the
first and second cycle, respectively); and (b) high share of expatriate
teachers (28? in second cycle general, 34? in teacher training, and 69? in
technical education). In 1987, 337 foreigners taught in secondary schools
(20? of the secondary teaching force), 239 of whom were recruited through
bilateral assistance and 98 on local contracts. The costs to the
Government of using a foreign as compared to a national teacher is only
about 1.1 times higher for a technical assistant but 2.4 times higher for a
teacher recruited on a local contract. Unit costs in hiRher education,
which in 1983 were well above the sub-Saharan average, declined by 40?
during the three-year period 1983-86, when enrollment increased by 106?
compared to a 24? increase in the nominal recurrent budget. However, the
comparatively low average costs (US$1,600 in 1986/87) are largely due to
low unit costs at the university (about US$950); costs at some of the
professional schools are three to five times higher, and there is
considerable scope for savings through restructuring and consolidating
existing programs. Annex 2-2 provides data on unit costs.
2.13      High unit capital costs.  About 45? of existing primary school
classrooms have been built and financed by local communities; the remainder
has been built by the MEN and financed by foreign donors. The MEN no
longer finances classroom construction in primary education, and all 214
classrooms built in 1987 were financed by local communities. Classrooms
financed by donors a few years ago -- made from cement blocks and 'hard'
roofs -- cost about US$17,000 (US$300 per pupil place). This high cost is
due to the use of imported building materials, inappropriate design and
inefficient procurement procedures, and is about four times that of



- 6 -
classrooms built by local communities using local materials. However,
because of poor technical knowledge among local builders and lack of
maintenance, these classrooms require frequent repairs and replacement.
Therefore, the annual amortization costs for the two types of classrooms,
taking into account costs of maintenance, repairs and replacement over a
25-year period, are quite similar (about US$18 per pupil-year). This high
cost impedes expansion of primary education. A pilot study indicates that
use of simple, low-cost/low-maintenance construction techniques, based on
local materials and using l_cal labor supported by trained technicians,
would enable communities to build good quality classrooms for less than
US$8,000. While this is about double the investment costs for classrooms
presently built by local communities, because of the lower maintenance and
replacement costs, the annual amortization costs would be halved (about
US$9 per pupil-year).
2.14      There is considerable scope for reducing unit capital costs
through more intensive use -- in some cases combined with renovation -- of
existing facilities. In primary education, this may be achieved by
introducing double-shift teaching in urban areas and multi-grade teaching
in rural areas. In general secondary education, many former dormitories
are now vacant following the recent closing of boarding schools, and many
classrooms are either unusable, or risk becoming unusable shortly, due to
lack of maintenance. The degree of dilapidation of the Rosso Lyc6e (the
largest and oldest in the country) is such that, if not repaired, the
buildings will become totally unusable in the next few years. In
vocational education, the ENFACOS (National School for Administrative,
Commercial and Social Training, built in 1979 with a capacity of about 350
students) stopped operating last year, and SNIM's large Center for
Apprenticeship and Training in Nouadhibou is only partially in use. In
higher education, a first step towards utilizing existing facilities more
efficiently was made in November 1986, when the MEN decided to eliminate
excess training capacity for secondary school teachers by merging the Lower
Secondary Teacher Training College (CFP/CEG) with the Secondary Teacher
Training College (ENS). The new ENS resulting from this merger was set up
in the buildings of the CFP/CEG, while the newly created Higher Institute
of Science (ISS) has been temporarily set up in the buildings of the former
ENS, awaiting its future transfer to Rosso (para. 2.18).
2.15      High student subsidies.  Despite more restrictive eligibility
criteria for scholarships introduced in 1984 and the reduction by about 30?
in the monetary allocation per scholarship, the level of student subsidies
remains high. In 1988, subsidies accounted for 18Z of the budget for
secondary education, 52? of that for higher education (about half of which
was for students abroad), and 202 of the total public education budget. In
1986, the share of scholarship holders in secondary education was 16? in
the first cycle of general education, 43? in the second cycle, 75? in
technical education, and 10O? in teacher training. In higher education,
59? of the students received scholarships, ranging from 45Z at the
University to 100Z in the professional schools. Considering the bleak
prospects for gainful employment for new graduates and the fact that many
of those who benefit from these subsidies belong to the better-off social
groups, a gradual reduction in the share of public resources devoted to
scholarships would seem justified from an economic as well as an equity
point of view. Annex 2-6 provides statistics on scholarships.



- 7 -
5.   Weak Planning and Management Capacitv
2.16      The MEN employs more than one-third of Mauritania's civil
servants and manages 222 of the Government's recurrent budget. The
Ministry's ability to use these resources cost-effectively is hampered by
its weak capacity for planning, personnel management and supervision of the
quality of instruction. For example, its planning unit is understaffed;
the school construction service lacks the staff and equipment required to
ensure optimal locations of new schools and to assist local communities to
improve the quality of the classrooms they build; the service responsible
for personnel management lacks proper records and control systems (it is
estimated that 5-10Z of the annual salary budget is wasted through
incorrect payments of salaries and indemnities); and regional staff lack
the meanp needed to perform their control and supervisory functions. Annex
2-7 gives the organizational chart of the MEN.
C. The Government's Sectoral Strategy
2.17      As part of its Economic Recovery Program, the Government defined,
in January 1986, an education sector strategy addressing most of the issues
outlined above. The strategy recognizes that there will be little room for
extra resources for this sector in the years to come; consequently, it
includes a number of cost-efficiency measures. The strategy gives highest
priority to primary education, where it aims to raise the enrollment ratio
by 8-12 percentage points between 1985 and 1988 and improve the quality of
education at this level. The improvements are to be partly financed
through a more efficient use of existing teachers and classrooms, cost
recovery for training materials, financing of school construction and
maintenance by local communities, and promotion of private education. In
secondary education, the strategy aims to: (a) introduce more selective
criteria for admission to the two cycles of general education;
(b) strengthen science teaching and shift a larger share of new students to
restructured technical/vocational programs; and (c) reduce costs to the
Government by replacing expatriate teachers, suppressing boarding
facilities, and recovering costs for training materials. For higher
education, the main objectives are to direct more students towards
scientific fields of study, and to reduce unit costs through a reduction in
student subsidies, replacement of expatriate teachers, reduction in lodging
indemnities for teachers, and more efficient use of existing
infrastructure.
2.18       The initial measures taken by the MEN to use existing facilities
more efficiently (para. 2.14) have been considerably extended during the
preparation of the present project. In secondary education, former
dormitories will be turned into teaching space, the ENFACOS building will
be used for the Commercial Lyc4e to be created under the project (para.
3.24), and SNIM's Training Center will be used for the new programs for the
industrial fishing sector (para. 3.30). Furthermore, in order to:
(a) establish the newly created ISS in an environment more favorable than
Nouakchott for natural science teaching and research; (b) use more
rationally the extensive facilities of the Rosso Lyc4e and solve the
student transport problem faced by this school (located some 5km outside
the town) since the closure of its boarding facilities; and (c) accelerate
the development of primary education in areas where enrollment, especially
for girls, is low, the MEN will reorganize the present use of some existing
infrastructure. The measures to be taken in this regard include:



- 8 -
(i) setting up the ISS in the buildings of the Rosso Lycee -- this will
require the renovation of existing facilities at the Lycee as well as some
new construction, (ii) setting up the Lycee in the buildings of the Rosso
Primary Teacher Training College (ENI) -- this is one of Mauritania's two
ENIs; it is located in the center of town in modern facilities of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the Lycee; and (iii) transferring the
ENI to Aloun (located in the eastern part of the country where enrollment
ratios are particularly low) -- this will require construction of a new
school. The facilities freed in Nouakchott by the transfer of the ISS to
Rosso, used in conjunction with those recently vacated by the National
School of Administration (which has moved to a renovated former secondary
school dormitory), and a newly built library and student restaurant, will
allow the needs for extra space at the University to be met without making
new costly investments (a US$40-50 million project had been envisaged for
this purpose).
2.19      The Government's education strategy addresses the right issues
and deserves support as an integral component of Mauritania's broader
economic recovery program. The strategy recognizes the urgency of
correcting distortions in resource allocation and use in the education
sector, and measures to this end have already been introduced. However,
some of the more difficult measures still await implementation because
theys (a) necessarily need to be phased over several years (e.g., those
aimed at more selective admission to secondary general education or at
reducing scholarships); (b) would require major investments (e.g., those
aimed at restructuring technical education or at improving the quality of
science teaching); or (c) must be concurrent with improvements in the
managerial capacity of the education sector (e.g., those aimed at improving
the efficiency of resource use). A major objective of the present project
is to assist the Government to further develop and implement its education
strategy.
D.   The Bank Group's Role
2.20      IDA has supported the education sector in Mauritania through two
previous credits. The first (Cr. 459-MAU, closed in 1982) provided US$3.8
million in support of vocational training for the industrial sector,
manpower planning studies, and an experiment aimed at modernizing Koranic
education. The second credit (Cr. 1214-MAU, closing date June 30, 1988,
following two extensions) provided US$5.7 million (plus US$5.0 million
cofinancing from the African Development Bank (AfDB), US$3.0 from the
European Development Fund (EDF), and US$1.6 from the Government) to
financet (a) creation of the Lower Secondary Teacher Training College
(CFPCEG); (b) strengthening of the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center
(CFPP); (c) rehabilitation and extension of the Maritime Training Center
(CFPM); and (d) creation of a Bureau of Organization and Management in the
MEN. Except for the CFPM component, the project has been completed without
major problems. About 75Z of the CFPM component was to be financed by the
EDF. Following a three-year delay in the signing of the cofinancing
agreement with Mauritania, the EDF cancelled its cofinancing in April 1987
on the grounds that the constructions foreseen in the project were no
longer justified since SNIH's training facilities in Nouadhibou -- which
were fully used at the time of project appraisal -- are now underutilized
and should be used by the CFPM. This aspect was taken into account when
the training needs in the fishery Pector were reappraised for inclusion in
the present project.



- 9 -
2.21      During the last year and a half, IDA has conducted an active
dialogue with the Government to help translate the sector strategy outlined
above into concrete investments and policy measures. To this end, several
studies have been conducted to analyze key sector issues and to develop
policy options to address these issues. As a result, a broad convergence
of views has emerged on the approach to follow. In the coming years, the
Bank Group should focus its lending in the education sector on assisting
the Government to further develop and implement this strategy. In this
way, IDA would help Mauritania: (a) introduce important reforms that would
lay the foundation for long-term development in the education sector
consistent with current fiscal and economic realities; (b) maintain an
adequate level of well-targeted investments in this sector during this
period of fiscal stringency; and (c) coordinate donor assistance to the
education sector within a common framework.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1       The project would help the Government implement the education
strategy outlined above. The strategy comprises reforms that are expected
to gradually change Mauritania's educational system from a small, costly
and essentially elitist system to one that is more equitable, relevant and
efficient, where priority is given to quality improvement at all levels of
education and to expansion of primary education, and where enrollment
growth in secondary and higher education is controlled and redirected in
line with expected resource availability and labor market demands. To
attain this overall objective, the project would: (1) implement a sectoral
adjustment program designed to correct distortions in costs and resource
allocation in the sector; (2) expand access to and improve the quality and
relevance of primary education; (3) improve the internal and external
efficiency of secondary and higher education; and (4) strengthen planning
and managerial capabilities in the education sector. Each of these four
components are described below.
1.   Sectoral Adjustment Program
3.2       To ensure attainment of project objectives and help finance
recurrent costs entailed by project investments, the Government and IDA
have agreed on an adjustment program designed to (a) increase primary
education's share of the education budget, (b) reduce unit costs, and
(c) stimulate increased private financing of education. The program
comprises the following measures (all budgetary targets are in nominal
terms):
(a) Measures to increase primary education's share of the budget:
(1) Ensuring that, through FY1993, the total annual scholarship
budget for general secondary education, teacher training and
higher education does not exceed its FY1987 level (UM584
million);
(2) Ensuring that, through FY1993,the annual rate of growth in
the recurrent budget for higher education (excluding
scholarships) does not exceed 3Z. The base-year figure for



- 10 -
this indicator is UM400 million which corresponds to the
budget voted for FY1988. The agreed upon 3? annual rate of
growth includes effects of the new salary scheme for higher
education and of a gradual Mauritanization of the teaching
force;
(3) Ensuring that, through FY1993, the annual rate of growth in
the recurrent budget for first cycle general secondary
education does not exceed the rate of growth in the total
public recurrent budget for education;
(4) Ensuring that, through school year 1992/93, the number of
new entrants to the first grade of second cycle general
secondary education does not exceed the 1987 level (5000
pupils);
(5) Ensuring, through FY1993, an annual rate of growth in the
recurrent budget for primary education of at least 92; and
(6) Ensuring that, through school year 1992/93, the annual
enrollment at the Higher Institute of Science (ISS) does not
exceed 600 students.
(b) Measures to reduce unit costs:
(7) Improving the control and management of Ministry of
Education's staff to eliminate current waste (para 2.16);
(8) Reducing the share of foreign teaching staff in secondary
and higher education, and the number of non-teaching staff
in secondary education (para 2.12); and
(9) Increasing the internal efficiency at all levels of
education (paras 2.9-2.10).
(c) Measures to stimulate increased private financing of education:
(10) Introducing new incentives to encourage the development of
private education (e.g., tax exemptions, facilitate access
to sites and train teachers for private schools, promote
inclusion of non-religious subjects in Koranic schools to
increase their contribution to literacy and numeracy); and
(11) Increasing private sector contributions to the financing of
public education (e.g., contribution of parents to training
material, of local communities to school construction, and
of employers to technical and vocational education).
Asuming a 3? annual real growth in the Government's budget as well as in
the total education budget, measures (1) - (4) would increase primary
education's share of the latter budget from 32? in FY1987 to 38? in FY1994.
?his would maintain the primary enrollment ratio slightly above its 1986/87
lewel of 55? during this period, while maintenance of the present budget
sbare would imply a decline to about 46Z in school year 1993/94 (Annex
2-5). Adding measures (7) and (8) to the above, and assuming that all
sawings are allocated to primary education, would allow an increase in



- 11 -
primary education's share of the education budget to about 442 in FY1994,
resulting in an enrollment ratio of 66Z. Finally, the further resource
increase for primary education implied by measure (5) would permit
achievement of an enrollment ratio of about 74Z in 1993/94. Assuming that
primary education's share of the education budget remains at 442 in PY1994
(the average for sub-Saharan Africa is 432), this would necessitate a
gradual increase in the share of the Government budget devoted to
education, from 22.4Z in FY1987 to 24.6Z in FY1994. However, introduction
of measures (9) - (11) would help minimize the need for such an increase.
3.3       The above measures would be implemented by the MEN in
consultation with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. By ensuring
adequate growth of primary education during the economic adjustment process
and redirecting enrollments in post-primary education towards fields of
study that offer greater promisc for employment, the adjustment program is
expected to help redistribute the benefits of education in favor of the
less well-off social groups. Prior to negotiations, the Government
provided IDA with a policy statement containing the above sectoral
adjustment program approved by the Council of Ministers on March 23. 1988.
At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will, prior to
October 30 of each year, starting in 1989: (a) organize a meeting to
review with IDA progress in achieving project objectives including those of
the adjustment program; and (b) furnish to IDA (i) the draft recurrent
budget for education for the upcoming fiscal year, and (ii) the draft
investment budget for the education sector for the coming three years.
Both draft budgets shall be acceptable to IDA as compared to the
commitments made by the Government in the Sectoral Adjustment Program.
Progress in implementing that program will be monitored in accordance with
the quantified indicators given above for measures (l)-(6), while progress
for measures (7)-(11) will be monitored in accordance with dated covenants
listed ui.der the relevant project components and specific actions agreed
upon with the Government. The criteria are summarized in Annex 3-1.
2.   Expansion of, access to, and improvement in the quality and
relevance of primary education
3.4       To attain this objective, the project would:  (a) develop designs
and techniques for building low-cost classrooms and assist local
communities to build 250 such classrooms, as well as renovate 50 existing
classrooms; (b) improve the efficiency of the learning process; and (c)
promote more efficient use of existing resources in primary education.
3.5       Classroom construction and rehabilitation.  To alleviate the
constraints on access to and quality of education caused by the severe
shortage and overcrowding of primary school classrooms (para 2.2), and to
reduce unit capital costs (para. 2.13), the project would improve the
capability of local communities to construct their own classrooms by:
(a) developing low-cost construction designs and techniques for such
classrooms, relying largely on local materials and labor; and (b) assisting
local communities, on a cost-sharing basis, to build 250 classrooms using
these designs and techniques. A prototype of a low-cost classroom is under
development outside Nouakchott. The walls are constructed from
locally-made bricks, and the roof is based on a vault structure of plaster
made from locally-available gypsum. The design minimizes the need for
timber and other imported materials, and can be used by local communities
with technical support from the School Construction Service to be



- 12 -
strengthened under the project (para. 3.33). The design is expected to
allow for a 25-year economic life with limited maintenance, and to lower
unit capital costs to about half the present level. Other prototypes will
be developed -- largely based on improving designs already used by local
communities -- for regions where gypsum is not available or where climatic
conditions differ from those in Nouakchott.
3.6       The sites for new classrooms have been identified through a
survey conducted for this purpose. To develop the local communities'
ability to use the new construction technique, masons and supervisors would
be trained, prior to launching the construction program, through a pilot
program involving the construction of two classrooms in the capital of each
region involved in the project. To participate in the construction
program, communities would need to: (a) provide local inputs (construction
materials, masonry, labor, sanitary facilities and fencing); and (b) have a
catchment area for the school sufficiently large to allow at least 35
pupils per class. Under these conditions, the project would provide
complementary construction elements, technical support to ensure good
building standards, school furniture, and a kit of basic classroom
supplies. School furniture would be manufactured by local artisans based
on existing designs. The project would also rehabilitate 50 classrooms in
schools included in the construction program. Annex 3-2 describes the
construction and rehabilitation program.
3.7       The project would finances  (a) civil works for (i) the
construction of 250 classrooms using the low-cost designs developed under
the project, limited to about 50Z of total costs and comprising
superstructure, joinery, painting and transport, and (ii) renovation of 50
classrooms (maximum of US$1,500 per classroom including repair/replacement
of school furniture); and (b) school furniture manufacturing materials and
equipment for the MEN workshop in Rosso, and a kit of basic classroom
supplies. At negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on criteria for
the location of the classrooms to be built during the first year of the
construction program. At the annual review meetings (para. 3.3), the
Government would discuss and agree with IDA on the annual construction
program for the coming year, including site selection.
3.8       Improved efficiency of learning Rrocess.  The quality of primary
education is adversely affected by a critical shortage of pedagogical
materials and lack of support for and supervision of teachers (para. 2.9).
The IPN (National Pedagogical Institute) is responsible for the development
and procurement of pedagogical materials and for retraining teachers. A
National Textbcok Committee approves the contents of the materials
developed by IPN and tested through classroom use during one school year.
Many manuscripts are at an advanced stage of development, but IPN lacks the
resources required for their editing, publication and distribution, as well
as for retraining teachers. To ensure a sustained supply of low-cost
pedagogical materials adapted to the Mauritanian culture, and giving
adequate attention to environmental and health topics, the project would
provide for: (i) completion of 24 textbook titles in mathematics and
reading for primary education (one book in Arabic and one in French per
grade and per subject); (ii) printing of about 350,000 books from these 24
titles; (iii) development and printing of about 60.000 teachers' guides in
reading, grammar, mathematics, local environment studies, oral expression
and physical education; (iv) renovationi of equipment at IPN; (v) construc-



- 13 -
tion and equipping of storage facilities at IPN and regional inspectorates;
and (vi) in-service training of teachers, inspectors and pedagogical
advisors in areas such as the use of textbooks and teachers' guides,
multi-grade and double-shift teaching, school maintenance, and management
and timetabling.
3.9       Until now, most textbook manuscripts developed by the IPN have
been edited and printed abroad.  The project would strengthen IPN's
capacity to do its own editing.  Moreover, when the print shop currently
under construction at the IPN is operational (in 1990), it would be
economical to print locally some of the materials produced under the
project.  The textbooks produced under the project (including those for
secondary education, cf. para. 3.17) would be sold at affordable prices,
and the proceeds from the sales would be placed in a revolving fund to be
used for textbook renewals. The average book life is estimated at three
years. As the price charged would be below cost, the Government would
contribute the difference to ensure that the fund has sufficient resources
to renew the textbooks on a regular basis. Annex 3-3 provides details on
titles by subject and grade level, and on production schedules. Annex 3-4
gives details on the in-service training programs.
3.10      The project would finances  (a) civil works to build a storeroom
at 1PN and at each of the 13 DREFs (para. 3.13); (b) furniture, equipment
and two vehicles; (c) printing of about 350,000 textbooks and 60,000
teachers' guides; (d) 14 man-months of specialist services; (e) in-service
training of primary school inspectors and pedagogical advisors, and a two-
week in-service course for all primary teachers (about 3,000); and
(f) cperating costs. At negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the
regulations governing the sales of textbooks and use of the revolving fund.
The Government gave assurances that it will: (i) open and maintain a
Special Treasury Account for the renewal of textbooks on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA; (ii) replenish this account by March 30 of
each year, starting in 1990, with amounts sufficient to cover the costs of
developing and printing school textbooks during that year; and (iii) ensure
that (a) the proceeds of all textbook sales shall be deposited into this
account, and (b) all funds deposited into the account shall be used only to
defray costs of printing textbook titles for primary and secondary schools.
3.11      More efficient resource use.  To increase the efficiency of
resource use in primary education, the project would:  (a) promote
multi-grade and double-shift teaching; (b) strengthen the regional
inspectorates (DREFs); and (c) transfer one of Mauritania's two primary
teacher training colleges from a 'high' to a 'low" enrollment region.
3.12      To promote multi-grade teaching, the project would train teachers
in use of this technique and help introduce it in areas where class size is
below 35.  During negotiations, it was agreed that any studies and
specialist services required to test and implement this method would be
financed through the funds reserved for studies under the Project
Coordination Unit (para. 3.36). By enlarging single-classroom schools, use
of this technique would permit their operating as multi-grade schools that
would admit new pupils every year instead of every sixth year as is now the
case (para. 2.2). To develop a suitable system of double-shift teaching,
the project would provide for experimentation with such teaching in 30
urban classrooms during one school year. The project would finance: (a)
ten man-months of specialist services to help design the experiment,



- 14 -
develop training material and evaluate the results; (b) training of
teachers for the experimental schools; and (c) incremental operating costs.
At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would: (i) by
December 31, 1989, agree with IDA on the detailed program chosen for the
experiment with double-shift teaching; (ii) start the experiment no later
than October 31, 1990; and (iii) discuss with IDA the final results of the
experiment no later than September 30, 1991, and implement the
recommendations of the review in a manner acceptable to IDA. Annex 3-5
describes the experimentation with double-shift teaching.
3.13      To improve the capacity of the MEN to monitor resource use at the
regional and school levels, support teachers and monitor the quality of
instruction, organize in-service training for teachers and headmasters, and
supervise school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, the project
will strengthen all 13 regional primary school inspectorates (DREFs). The
project would financet (a) civil works to renovate/extend buildings for
the DREFs in Atar, Nouadhibou and Akjoujt, and construct new buildings for
the ten remaining DREFs; (b) furniture and equipment for the 13 DREFs
including one vehicle for each! and (c) incremental uperating costs related
to the vehicles. Annex 3-L# provides details on project support for the
DREFs.
3.14      One reason for Mauritania's marked regional disparity in the
development of primary education (para. 2.2) is that teachers trained at
the country's two primary teacher training colleges (ENI) -- located within
2OOkm of each other in "high enrollment areas (Nouakchott and Rosso) --
are reluctant to relocate to teach in the interior of the country.
Therefore, to train teachers among residents of the two regions that have
the lowest enrollment ratios -- Hodh el Charghi (29Z for boys, 19Z for
girls) and Hodh el Gharbi (46Z for boys, 36? for girls) -- the MEN has
decided, within the context of restructuring educational institutions
described in para. 2.18, to transfer the Rosso ENI to Aloun, the capital of
Bodh el Gharbi. The capacity of the new ENI would be similar to that of
Rosso, i.e., about 500 students of whom about two-thirds would be graduates
from lower secondary education and would follow a three-year program; the
rest would hold the baccalaur4at and would follow only the last year of the
three-year program. The project would finance: (a) civil works to build
the new school in Aloun; and (b) furniture and equipment for this school.
Details on the civil works for the new school are given in Annex 3-18.
3.   Improved internal and external efficiency of secondary and higher
education
3.15      To attain this objective the project would:  (a) improve the
quality of science teaching in general secondary education; (b) help create
science programs in higher education; (c) restructure and improve the
quality and relevance of technical education; (d) strengthen and diversify
skill-upgrading programs for industrial and commercial sector workers; and
(e) establish training programs for the industrial fishing sector.
3.16      Science teaching in secondary education.  Quality decline in
general secondary education (para. 2.10) is particularly marked in the
natural science stream (41? of lycee enrollments). It is caused by factors
such as low relevance of programs, severe textbook shortages, theoretical
bias of teaching (reflecting similar bias in teacher training and lack of
equipment and supplies needed for students to perform practical



- 15 -
experiments) and lack of selectivity in entry to secondary education. To
remedy this situation, the project would: (i) revise science programs;
(ii) develop and print 12 textbook titles in Arabic in physics, chemistry,
mathematics and natural sciences for lycee students (one book per grade and
per subject); (iii) provide three science blocks (each containing one
laboratory for physics and one for chemistry and natural sciences) in three
lycees, in order to test the conditions under which laboratories can be
provided in a sustainable manner to all lycees in the future; (iv) provide
a basic kit of science equipment to all the remaining secondary schools;
(v) train science teachers in the use of textbooks provided; and (vi)
renovate classrooms that are in a particularly serious state of disrepair.
3.17      The project would finance:  (a) civil works to construct the
three science blocks and to renovate about 100 secondary classrooms;
(b) equipment and supplies for these three science blocks, as well as a
basic kit of equipment and supplies for the remaining 17 lycees and 23
colleges; (b) specialist services to help revise science curricula;
(c) printing of about 120,000 science textbooks; and (d) retraining of all
science teachers (about 220). Annex 3-7 details the project's support for
science teaching !n general secondary education.
3.18      Science teaching in higher education.  As part of its strategy to
channel a larger share of tertiary enrollments into science programs, the
Government created, in November 1986, the Higher Institute of Science
(ISS). The ISS was temporarily set up in buildings freed through the
merger of the CFP/CEG and the former ENS (para. 2.14). Its programs --
currently being developed by ISS staff assisted by the University of Nice.
France -- would focus on applied sciences in three main areas:
(a) exploitation of Mauritania's natural resources; (b) problems related to
food security and the environment; and (c) communication and information
sciences. The training would be provided through two two-year cycles.
Later on, a third cycle would be established for post-graduate studies
while qualified students would go abroad to follow doctorate programs.
Total enrollment at the ISS would not exceed 600 during project
implementation (para. 3.2).
3.19      The project would help set up the ISS in the buildings of the
Rosso Lycee (para. 2.18). To this end, it would finance: (a) civil worke
to renovate existing buildings at the Lycee (about 7,000 m2 of mainly
teaching space, but including boarding and restaurant facilities), and to
construct some additional facilities (about 1,700 square meters);
(b) equipment and supplies for eight laboratories; (c) printing of two
natural science books on Mauritania, and purchase of about 3,000 textbooks;
(d) six man-mor,ths of specialist services to install laboratory equipment;
and (e) 24 man-months of training abroad. At negotiations, the Gover=ment
gave assurances that it will, by June 30, 1989, agree with IDA on measures
to ensure that beneficiaries of boarding and restaurant services at the I88
bear the cost of such services, and implement these measures when said
services have become operational.
3.20      To avoid the present duplication at the ENS of courses already
provided at the ISS and the University, ENS programs would be limited to
providing: (i) pedagogical training to University and ISS graduates for
them to become secondary school teachers; (ii) training in subject matters
pertaining to management of education resources and facilities; and
(iii) in-service training for education sector staff. The new ENS is



- 16 -
located in recently constructed buildings that are well maintained and
equipped, and only a limited amount of supplementary pedagogical materials
and equipment needs to be provided under the project to support the
implementation of this reform. At negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that, by June 30, 1989, ENS programs would be changed as
described above. Annex 3-8 details the project's support for the ISS and
the ENS.
3.21      Technical education.  Mauritania's technical education is largely
limited to rigid programs geared towards the needs of the mining sector.
As future employment creation in this sector is expected to be limited, the
Government has decided to restructure technical education to increase its
relevance to potential growth sectors, i.e., fisheries, service industries,
economic activities related to the two new dams on the Senegal River, and
small-scale enterprises. Recent studies have found shortages of
middle-level technicians and skilled workers in these sectors (para. 2.7).
3.22       Mauritania has two technical secondary schools, one in
Nouakchott providing both lower cycle (Technical Education College -- CET)
and upper cycle (Lycee) programs, and one CET in Nouadhibou. Created in
1964, the former school has 1,069 students (1987) in overcrowded facilities
meant for 600 to 700 students. The Nouadhibou CET (opened in 1984) has 94
students, enrolled in marine diesel engines and refrigeration studies
designed for the fishing industry. At the post-secondary level, the Center
for Higher Technical Education (CSET) was set up in 1981 to train technical
education teachers and instructors for the mining industry through two-year
programs. It has 42 students and shares the buildings of the lycee.
3.23      The Government's program for restructuring technical education
has four main elements. First, quality and relevance would be improved by:
(a) upgrading the entrance requirements to the CETs from completion of
primary to completion of lower secondary education. This would ensure more
mature CET students with a better general education base, which would
permit shortening the CET and the lycde programs from three to two years,
while increasing the part of the 36-hour weekly program devoted to
professional training from 14 to 26 hours (i.e., 251 more such training
during the new two-year prog:am than during the former three-year program);
(b) development of curricula for the new programs; and (c) provision of
equipment and training materials. To reflect this increased professional
emphasis, the technical schools will be renamed, respectively, College and
Lycde of Professional Training (CEP or LEP).
3.24      Second, provision of technical education would be diversified and
decentralized by: (a) reorienting existing programs -- this would imply
reducing enrollment in the Nouakchott CEP/LEP, whose industrial programs
presently account for 92Z of technical education students, from 1,069 to
675, including 180 in new programs for the construction trades and in small
appliance repair, while enrollment in the Nouadhibou CET, in programs
designed for the fishery sector, would increase from 90 to 180; and (b)
creating two new schools -- one CEP and one combined CEP/LEP.  The CEP
would be placed in Boghe and would supply trained manpower to support the
rural economy along the Senegal River, including activities generated by
the two new dams on that river. It would enroll 210 students in courses in
automotive mechanics, gas/diesel engines, maintenance and repair of
agricultural equipment and of public works vehicles, rural building trades
and small-scale vegetable farming. The new combined CEP/LEP would provide



- 17 -
training for secretarial, accounting and office management jobs in the
commercial sector. It would be installed in Nouakchott in buildings freed
by the closing of the ENFACt.3 (para. 2.18) and would accommodate 240
students split between the two two-year CEP and LEP cycles. Presently, no
institution is responsible fqr providing pre-employment training in these
areas, although there is a high demand for such training, especially from
women (while all students in existing technical schools are male, women
make up 732 of those enrolled in commercial skill upgrading courses).
3.25        Third, to minimize the need for additional budget allocations
to support the two new schools, the }EN woulds (a; gradually replace
foreign teachers (para. 2.12) with nationals trained at the CSET;
(b) compensate for increased costs brought about by the need to hire more
technical teachers (to increase from 78 to 113) by reducing the number of
general education teachers (from 42 to 17) and the number of support staff
(from 87 to 59); and (c) promote private sector participation in the
financing of technical education. The restructuring program would result
in increases of about 122 (from 1,163 to about 1,305) in total enrollments
in technical secondary schools, about 602 (from 400 to about 650) in the
number of graduates per year, and about 202 in the annual recurrent budget.
Fourth, to enhance the graduates' chances of finding gainful employment,
employers would participate in the design and financing of training
programs. Measures in this regard would include; (i) the establishment of
a National Council on Vocational and Technical Education (on which key
Ministries, and employers' and workers' associations would be represented)
to advise on issues related to course offerings, iabor market demands, and
ways of increasing the pcivate sector's financing of such education; and
(ii) giving employers who pay the training tax (which brings in about UM 30
million annually to the national budget) the option of using these funds to
finance the training of their employees at existing schools. Moreover,
annual admission to each program would be monitored to reflect changes in
labor market trends.  The Government's capacity to conduct such monitoring,
e.g., through regular labor market surveys and tracer studies of graduates,
would be strengthened (paras. 3.33 - 3.35). Annex 3-9 describes the
restructuring program and details the project's support for that program.
3.26      The project would finance:  (a) civil works to construct the CEP
in Boghe, to extend and renovate the CEP/LEP in Nouakchott, and to renovate
the CEP in Nouadhibou as well as the buildings that will house the
Commercial CEP/LEP; and (b) furniture and equipment for the CEP in Boghe
and for the Commercial CEP/LEP, and supplementary equipment for the CEP in
Nouadhibou and the CEP/LEP in Nouakchott, as well as for the CSET,
including equipment needed for new courses at the Nouakchott CEP (in small
appliance repair and building trades) and at the Nouadhibou CEP (in metal
boat repair). At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that, by
June 30, 1989: (i) the two new schools would be legally established with
curricula and conditions of admission acceptable to IDA; and (ii) measures
designed to involve employers in decisions on course content and in
financing parts of technical schools' operating costs would be discussed
and agreed with IDA.
3.27      Skill upgrading programs.  Such programs are provided at the CFPP
(Vocational Training and Upgrading Center), which opened in 1981 and was
supported by the First and Second Education Projects (para. 2.20). The
CFPP operates under the aegis of the Ministry of Labor, and its primary
function is to upgrade skills of already employed commercial and industrial



- 18 -
manpower. Most courses last for nine months; students attend classes three
to four hours a day and work a half day. However, since no institution
provides pre-employment training for the commercial sector (para. 3.24),
the CFPP has enrolled students seeking such training in its upgrading
courses. As a result, the share of employed students fell from 80Z in 1981
to 45Z in 1987; the remaining students were either unemployed (30Z) or had
varying degrees of commitment for employment (25Z). In 1987, the CFPP had
665 students (up from 400 in 1986 due to the opening of Arab-language
commercial courses) of whom 80? attended commercial courses.
3.28      The CFPP has been successful in several respects:  its courses
are developed in close consultation with employers and are kept flexible to
respond to labor market demands; 407 of the Center's operating costs are
financed through cost recovery; and unit costs are low (about US$400 or
one-third of those of technical schools) due to the double-shift system and
the fact that all 17 teachers are nationals. However, the trend towards
providing pre-employment training has overextended the Center's capacity,
and the quality of training has suffered.  T7 aM4ress this issue, the
Government has decided to restore the main thrust of the Center's training
to its criginal purpose of manpower skill ievelopaent, and to diversify its
program to include four new courses: air-co.adit.oning and refrigeration,
industrial electricity and electro-mechanics, data processing, and
management of small and medium-size enterprises. In support of this
effort, the project would finance: (a) civil works to construct about
600 m2 of teaching space; (b) furniture, pedagogical equipment and one
vehicle; (c) 12 man-months of specialist services to help develop training
programs; and (d) training of teaching staff for the four new courses.
Annex 3-10 details the project's support for the CFPP.
3.29      TraininR programs for industrial fishing.  In 1986, fish products
accounted for 652 of Mauritania's export revenues, and the fishing sector
employed about 10,500 persons, 1,600 on shore and 8,900 in the fleet (of
whom 6,900 in industrial fishing). Mauritania's Exclusive Economic Zone
(ZEE) is one of the richest fishing zones in the world with an estimated
potential annual capture of 600,000 tons. Of the 324 modern vessels
fishing in the ZEE in mid-1987, 176 were Mauritanian-owned, 78 chartered
and 70 fished on license. The national fleet is owned by 20 companies
(nine have state financial participation) which are *L mesented by the FIAP
(F4ddration des Industries et Armements de Peche). q1- fishing sector's
contribution to the economy is constrained by lack of qualified local
manpower; two-thirds of those employed in the industrial fleet are
foreigners. Therefore, in April 1987 the Government adopted a new sector
strategy aimed at conserving resources and increasing the value added from
both industrial and artisanal fishing. Accelerated skill development is a
cornerstone of this strategy in order to improve surveillance of the ZEE,
to replace foreigners employed in the fleet, and to increase the
productivity of artisanal fishing. A recent study estimates a need to
train between 2,000 and 3,100 persons (officers, engineers, deck seamen) to
replace foreigners in the national fleet, and 1,600 for jobs on shore. Due
to the high cost of foreign manpower and recent labor unrest, there is a
growing interest among shipowners to replace foreigners. In addition, the
skills of more than 2,000 existing seamen should be upgraded.
3.30      The Maritime Training Center (CFPM) in Nouadhibou (run by the
Ministry of Fisheries) is the only institution designed specifically to
train manpower for the fishing sector. Expansion of the Center (in



- 19 -
operation since 1981) was planned under the Second Education Project, but
did not take place (para. 2.20), and training at the CFPM has been limited
to three-month upgrading courses for deck seamen (about 600 have been
retrained). Therefore, the present project would assist the Government to
strengthen and expand the training capacity of the CFPM. The original plan
of constructing a new CFPM has been abandoned. Instead, the CFPM will rent
SNIM's Center for Apprenticeship and Training (CAFK) which is underutilized
(para. 2.14). Located 12 km from Nouadhibou, the CAFM has excellent
facilities which would allow 110 students per year to be trained in
one-year pre-employment courses for deck seamen, motor and refrigeration
engineers, and 205 in skill upgrading courses (two four-month courses each
for 60 deck seamen, and one two-month course for 85 officers). Students
for engineering courses would be selected through tests among CEP graduates
who, prior to admission, would spend seven weeks at sea to test their
aptitude for industrial fishing. The CFPM would have one boat where
students would receive practical training under conditions comparable to
those prevailing in industrial fishing. A part of the costs of operating
the boat would be covered through the sale of its catch. The CFPM's
governing board includes representatives of shipowners and workers. The
FIAP has participated in the initial design of the training programs and
will contribute towards the Center's operating costs. Also, employers
would contribute towards the cost of the skill upgrading courses, and would
accept trainees free of charge to undergo periods of practical training.
3.31      The project would finance:  (a) minor civil works to rehabilitate
workshops; (b) materials and equipment including one training boat; (c) 96
man-months of specialist services; and (d) incremental operating costs on a
declining basis. At negotiations, the Government provided IDA with a copy
of the contract it has entered into with the SNIM for lease of the CAFM;
the costs associated with this lease would be financed by the Government.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that, by June 30, 1989,
it will review with IDA: (i) CFPM's draft curriculum; and (ii) measures
for securing the financing of all CFPM's operating costs by the Borrower
and potential private sector contributions, and implement these measures by
September 30, 1989. Annex 3-11 details the support to the CFPM.
4. Strengthening of planning and managerial capacities of key
Ministries responsible for education and training activities
3.32     To attain this objective the project would:  (a) improve the
capacity of the Ministry of Education (MEN) to plan and manage educational
development; (b) develop the capacity of key ministries to coordinate their
provision of training programs with trends in labor market demands; and
(c) reinforce the existing project coordination unit.
3.33     MEN.  To improve the MEN's planning and managerial capacities
(para. 2.16), the project would strengthen the Directorate of Educational
Planning and Cooperation (DPC) and the Personnel Directorate (DP). In
addition, all 13 Regional Inspectorates (DREF) will be strengthened under
another project component (para. 3.13). The project would strengthen the
DPC's capacity to: (a) compile, analyze and publish education statistics;
(b) establish and maintain a country-wide school map; (c) monitor the
development and implementation of measures to promote (i) more
cost-effective resource use -- including use of multi-grade and double-
shift teaching (para. 3.12), (ii) expansion of private education (para.
3.2) and (iii) a higher share of female enrollment; (d) plan and supervise



- 20 -
school construction; (e) and establish a community-based maintenance
system. To achieve the laet objective, the DPC's School Construction
Service (SCS) would develop a maintenance manual, train teachers in
maintenance procedures, and provide kits of basic tools to schools. The
DP's capacity to manage MEN staff and control personnel costs (para. 2.16)
would be strengthened by updating and computerizing personnel records, and
by providing training and equipment. The MEN's Bureau of Organization and
Management would assist in organizing training activities included under
this component. Annex 3-12 details project support for this component.
3.34      The project would finances  (a) furniture and equipment for the
DPC and the DP including one vehicle for the SCS; (b) 96 man-months of
specialist services for the DPC (36 months for an educational planner, 24
months of short-term consultants to assist in the preparation of studies,
and 36 months for an architect) and 12 man-months for the DP; (c) 72
man-raonths of training abroad for the DPC and 12 months for the DP;
(d) funds for organizing local training related to SCS activities, school
mapping and yearly seminars for DREF staff; and (e) incremental operating
costs for the DPC and funds for the DP to conduct a complete census of MEN
staff. At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(i) by June 30, 1989, determine the modalities for transferring school
maintenance responsibilities to local communities, develop in agreement
with these communities a school maintenance system satisfactory to IDA, and
implement this system as from September 30, 1990; and (ii) by September 30,
1990, develop an action program satisfactory to IDA for promoting private
education.
3.35      Coordination of training with labor market demand.  To enhance
the Government's capacity to coordinate the provision of trained manpower
with labor market demands, the project would strengthen the Human Resource
Unit in the Ministry of Finance, and the Human Resource Directorate in the
Ministry of Fisheries. The for.er Unit would conduct/promote studies on
the supply of and demand for different types of qualified labor, and ensure
that investments in the education and training sector respond to these
demands. The newly created Directorate of Human Resources in the Ministry
of Fisheries would do similar work pertaining to the fishing sector.
Outside the project, the UNDP would establish a Manpower Planning Unit in
the Ministry of Labor. The project would finance: (a) furniture and
equipment; (b) 27 man-months of specialist services for the Unit in the
Ministry of Finance and 12 man-months for the Directorate in the Ministry
of Fisheries; and (c) studies and local seminars. Annex 3-13 details
project support for this component.
3.36      Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU).  To enhance the institution-
building effects of the project, its various components would be executed
by the services concerned. However, as the project involves four different
ministries, the PCU created under the Second Education Project and located
in the Ministry Finance would be maintained and strengthened to ensure
overall coordination of project activities and to serve as liaison between
the Government and IDA. The unit is headed by a full-time director,
responsible for supervision and coordination of project activities; it
would support implementation of all project components in the areas of
procurement, financial administration, documentation, monitoring and
reporting. The current small staff (i.e., director, administrator and
support staff), would be strengthened by an architect (for the first three
years of the project) to assist in implementation of hardware components,



- 21 -
and by an accountant. The project would finance: (a) furniture and
equipment; (b) 85 man-months of specialist services (36 months for project
architect, 30 months of short-term consultant services for pre-investment
studies (including any studies/experimentation required to introduce
multi-grade teaching, cf. para. 3.12), and 19 months for preparation of
bidding documents, evaluation of project achievements and for project
audit); and (c) operating costs. At negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that the PCU will be staffed as described above.
B.   Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.37      The total project costs over the five years of implementation is
estimated at US$37.4 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a
foreign exchange component of US$ 28.5 million (76Z). Base cost estimates
are at January 1988 prices. The project would be financed by IDA (US$18.2
million or 49Z of total costs), AfDB (US$17.0 million or 45Z), contri-
butions by local communities to primary school construction and by the
private sector to operational costs of vocational training (US$1.6 million
or 42), and budgetary allocations from the Government (US$0.7 million or
2X). The AfDB would finance printing of textbooks for primary education
(paras. 3.8-3.9), and all investment costs related to science teaching in
secondary and higher education (paras. 3.16-3.20), technical education
(paras. 3.21-3.26), and vocational programs for the industrial fishing
sector (paras. 3.29-3.31). The major assumptions in arriving at the cost
estimates, as well as the detailed project costs by component, cost
category and source of financing, are given in Annex 3-14.
3.38      Recurrent cost implications.  Project investments would generate
net incremental operating costs estimated at about US$6 million over the
five-year implementation period; expressed as a percentage of the 1988
education budget, the costs range from 1.4Z in 1989 to 4.3Z in 1993.
Salaries for teachers for the primary schools to be built account for 48X
of these costs; the remainder is accounted for by increased recurrent costs
in technical education (112) and in vocational programs for the fishing
sector (41Z). The sectoral adiustment program (para.3.2) is estimated to
generate cost savings of about US$20 million over the five-year
implementation of the project; these savings would roughly equal the
additional recurrent costs implied by the adjustment measure aimed at
increasing the budget for primary education by 92 per year through FY1993.
In summary, incremental recurrent costs generated by the project's
investments and adjustment program are comparatively low, especially when
compared to the many benefits the project is expected to generate. Annex
3-15 analyzes the cost savings and incremental recurrent costs generated by
the project.
C.   Proiect Implementation
1.   Proiect Readiness. Management and Institution Building
3.39      Project Readiness.  The Government has provided IDA with a policy
statement containing the Council of Ministers' approval of the Sectoral
Adjustment Program (para. 3.3). Implementation plans and schedules have
been prepared for each component and are found in the Annexes. Suitable
sites for all classrooms, schools and office buildings to be constructed
have been identified, and a survey of all construction activities has been
completed (civil works under the project are summarized in Annex 3-18).



- 22 -
The Government, assisted by UNESCO, is finalizing a prototype of a primary
school classroom. Final site selection for the annual school construction
program will be reviewed by IDA each year. Furniture, pedagogical material
and equipment requirements have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable.
Most construction, furniture and equipment designs/specifications, and bid
documents would be available at the time of credit effectiveness.
Selection of key experts and training institutions were discussed at
negoti&tions. The Government has already transferred the ENFACOS from the
Ministry of Labor to the MEN (para. 3.24). At negotiations, the Government
agreed with IDA on the items listed in paras. 3.7 and 3.10, and provide IDA
with a signed copy of the contract mentioned in para. 3.31. The cross-
effectiveness condition for the AfDB credit is not expected to cause any
delays as the AfDB intends to submit the project to its Board in May 1988.
3.40      Implementation responsibility and schedule.  Implementation
details of each component are given in Annexes 3-1 through 3-13.
Implementation responsibility for each component rests with the relevant
Ministry Directorate. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would act as
liaison with IDA Cor all matters related to project execution and would
support the directorates in the areas of procurement, financial
administration, documentation, monitoring, reporting and preparation of
annual reviews. Project execution has been cautiously planned over a
five-year period. Annex 3-16 describes the PCU and indicates
implementation responsibility ior each project component. At negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that the project would be implemented
according to the arrangements and schedules agreed to at appraisal and
summarized in Annex 3-17.
3.41      Specialist services and training.  The project would provide a
total of 151 man-years of specialist services (of which 70% by local
staff), and a total of 2,155 man-years of training (of which 93% locally
arranged). During negotiations, terms of reference for the specialist
posts would be agreed upon. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit
would be that an education planner has been employed in the DPC and that an
architect and an accountant have been employed in the PCU. Details
regarding specialist services and fellowships are given in Annexes 3-19 and
3-20.



- 23 -
2.    Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account
3.42         Procurement.   The following procurement arrangements would apply:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS million Including contingencies)
Cat eory of Exp nditure                           ICe           LCB       OTHER        N/A     TOTAL COST
1.  CiviI Works
a.  General contracts                            -          8.80 sJ     -           -           80
(Parts A,D)                                     -          (3.43)                             (8.43)
b.  School construction contract.               -           1.39        -           -          1.89
(Part A)                                        -          (1.89)       -           -         (1.89)
c.  Com_unity input/private sector               -           -          -          1.43 (1)    1.43
2.  Furniture and Non-Podagogical Equipment
a.  Furniture and Equipment                     2.B  i/      -          -           -          2.09
(Part. A,D,F)                                 (1.46)         -          _           _         (1.46)
b.  Furniture for schools                                   1.23 d      -           -          1.23
(Part. A,D)                                     -          (1.09)       _           -         (1.09)
8. Pedagogical Materials
a.  Textbooks                                   1. 78 d/     -          -           -          1.78
(Part A)                                      (0.02)         _          _           _         (0.02)
b. Pedagogical equipment                       8.40 e/       -          -           -          8.40
(Parts A,D)                                   (1.11)         _          _          -          (1.11)
4.  Specialist Services                              -           -          68 fl    0.21 (2)    7.07
(Parts A,D,F)                                   -            -        (4.84)      (0.21)      (6.06)
S. Training                                          -           -         0.71 g/    0.87 (8)    1.68
(Part. A,D,F)                                   -            -        (0.48)      (0.87)      (1.30)
8.  Operating Costs                                  -           -          4.04       0.14 (4)    4.18
(Part. A,E,F)                                   -            -        (3.36)       (-)        (3888)
Total Costs                                        12.27       10.92       11.61       2.64        37.44
Total Financed by IDA                              (2.57)      (5.62)      (8.63)     (1.08)      (18.19)
_ _ _    _      _     _     _        ====~~~-    =         ==               -           =__
Not.s:   Capital letters and figures In parentheses show the components and amounts financed by IDA.
Footnotes represented by small letters indicate amounts financed by AfDB and procured under Its
procedures (in USa million): (a) 4.88; (b) 0.64; (c) 0.18; (d) 1.76; (e) 7.29; (f) 2.02; (g) 0.28.
Part A:  Expension and Improvement of Primary Edu-ation -- financed by IDA, except printing of textbooks (AfDB).
Part , :  Science Teaching in Secondary/Higher Education -- financed by AfDB.
Part C: Restructuring of Technical Education -  financed by AfDB.
Part D: Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP) -- financed by IDA.
Part E: Maritime Training Center (CFPM) -- financed by AfDS, except operating cost. (IDA + private).
Part F: Strengthening of Management and Planning -- financed by IDA.
(1)  Represent. local communities' contributions for the school construction program (labor, local building
materials, sanitary facilities, fencing and cash contributions).
(2)  Represent. services from Volunteers.
(8)  Represent. local training Including most In-service training.
(4)  Represents Industrial fisheries" contributions to support the operating costs of CFPM.
Figures maw not add i p to total d a *  roundi



- 24 -
3.43      Goods, including pedagogical materials, guides and textbooks
(totalling US$2.58 million equivalent), representing about 682 of the total
vasue of goods financed by IDA, would be procured through international
coi.petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines and grouped, to
the extent practical to facilitate competition in bidding, into bid
packages of at least US$150,000 equivalent. 'Where ICB procedures are used,
domestic manufacturers would be given a preference margin, in accordance
with IDA guidelines, of 152 for goods manufactured locally, or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less. Other contracts for civil
works and school furniture financed by IDA (totalling US$5.9 million
equivalent), which are small in size, labor intensive, involve widely
dispersed sites, and are not likely to attract foreign bidders, would be
awarded through competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that: (a) all bids shall be
opened in public and bidders' representatives shall be allowed to be
present; (b) no preference margin shall be granted to domestic
manufacturers or suppliers; and (c) foreign companies shall not be required
to be incorporated in Mauritania in order to participate in the bidding.
Items purchased under the category of operating costs which cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least US$15,000 equivalent, provided the
aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$4 million
equivalent, would be procured through international and local shopping on
the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three foreign or local
suppliers to ensure competitive prices, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Specialist services and training abroad financed by IDA
(totalling US$5.3 million equivalent) would be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Bidding packages (announcement, bid documents and proposed
contract awards) estimated at more than US$150,000 equivalent, representing
about 772 of the total value of IDA-financed contracts, would be suoject to
prior review by IDA. The remaining 232 of contracts would be subject to
either: (i) post review for contracts estimated at between US$15,000 and
US$150,000 equivalent; or (ii) random review by IDA supervision missions
for contracts estimated at less than US$15,000 equivalent. Procurement of
contracts for components financed by the AfDB on a parallel basis
(totalling US$17 million equivalent) would follow procedures acceptable to
the AfDB. During negotiations, the Government would give assurances that
it will apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above.
Procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 3-21.
3.44      Disbursement.  The regional disbursement profile is eight years.
However, in view of the fact that an experienced Project Coordination Unit
is already in place and that most IDA-financed activities are scheduled to
be completed during the first three years of th'.e project, the IDA credit
would be disbursed over a period of five and a hal.f years on th= oasis of
the categories shown in the table below. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1993. The estimated quarterly disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 3-22, while Annex 3-23 provides a summary of
national contributions to the project.



- 25 -
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Proposed IDA        X of Expenditure
Category of Exnenditure              Allocation          Financed by IDA
1.   Civil works contracts               4.3                  100?
2.   Furniture and non-pedagogical
equipment                           2.3                  1OOZ
3.   Pedagogical material                1.0                  1OOZ
4.   Specialist services                 4.7                  100?
5.   Training                            1.2                  lOOZ
6.   Operating costs                     3.1                   80?
7.   PPF                                 0.5
8.   Unallocated                         1.1
TOTAL                              18.2
3.45      Snecial Account.  To facilitate disbursement, US$1.2 million
equivalent, denominated in convertible ouguiya, would be advanced from the
IDA credit and deposited in a local commercial bank. The amount is
estimated to cover about three months of expenses for all IDA-eligible
project expenditures. Replenishment applications to IDA would be
aggregated into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent and would be
fully documented except for expenses related to contracts and/or
expenditures valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent, which would be
reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs), and for
which documentation would be retained at the Project Unit for random review
by IDA supervision missions and for semi-annual audits. Reimbursement
applications would also include a statement of account movements since the
last application, with the balance certified by the bank holding the
account, and a reconciliation showing that the balance represented is the
original amount less payments await'ng reimbursement of small working
advances. Given the availability of the Special Account, the minimum
application for direct payments would normally be for the equivalent of
US$20,000.
3.46      Accounting. auditing and reporting.  The Project Director would
maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit, the AfDB credit and
Government counterpart financing. These accounts would be further
subdivided into expenditures incurred for each component. At negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that: (a) all project accounts, including
disbursement against statements of expenditures (SOEs), will be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (b) the Government
will submit the reports to IDA for review by March 31 of each year,
beginning in 1990; (c) the audit reports will certify that the funds were
used for the purposes for which they were provided; and (d) the Project
Director will submit to IDA semi-annual reports on project implementation
and expenditures by June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning in
1989, and a completion report within six months of the IDA credit closing
date.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The sectoral adjustment program would help reallocate
education resources in favor of primary education, thus ensuring an



- 26 -
adequate level of investment in basic education during this period of
overall economic adjustment, and a redistribution in favor of the less
well-off social groups of the benefits generated by public spending on
education (between school years 1986/87 and 1993/94, primary education's
share of the education budget would increase from 32Z to 44S, allowing the
enrollment ratio to increase from 55t to 742, and the share of female in
total enrollment from 402 to 442). Together, the project's investments and
adjustment measures would help increase the social returns to all levels of
education by improving educational and skill levels of the labor force,
thereby increasing its contribution to growth in the fishing and service
industries, and improving its mastery of the technologies needed to exploit
the country's meager agricultural and water resources.
4.2       Most students would benefit from the project through more
relevant programs, improved availability, relevance and quality of
pedagogical materials and equipment, better trained teachers and improved
school buildings. Better quality primary education would increase the
utility of this level of schooling to those who cannot continue and would
lead to greater efficiency at subsequent levels. The restructuration,
diversification and quality improvement of technical and vocational
education would help reorient enrollment in line with skill shortages in
potential growth sectors in the economy. Improved quality of science
teaching in secondary and higher education would help correct the current
literary bias in general education, while consolidation of the higher
education sub-sector would help develop institutions that are economically
and pedagogically viable.
4.3       Risks.  The main risks area  (a) the Government's ability to
contain growth in general secondary and higher education and hence to
provide the budgetary resources required to achieve the targets for growth
and quality improvements of primary education; and (b) the capacity of the
economy to generate gainful employment for technical/vocation education
graduates. To address the former risk, the sectoral adjustment program
includes specific measures to control growth in enrollment and expenditures
in general secondary and higher education; implementation of these measures
would be monitored through joint Government/IDA annual reviews.  To
minimize the latter risk, investments are directed towards sectors where
there are demonstrated skill shortages, programs would be kept flexible to
respond to changes in labor market trends, and employers would participate
in the design and financing of training programs. Also, the reinforcement
of the Government's capacity to plan and monitor the development of the
country's human resources would help minimize these risks.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       Prior to negotiations, the Governments  (a) provided IDA with a
policy statement containing the Council of Ministers' approval of the
Sectoral Adjustment Program (para. 3.3); (b) transferred, from the Ministry
of Labor to the Ministry of Education, the buildings of the former National
School for Administrative, Commercial and Social Training (ENFACOS) to
house the new commercial Lycee (para. 3.24); (c) identified suitable sites
for all classrooms, schools, and office facilities to be built under the
project; and (d) reviewed with IDA the furniture, pedagogical material and
equipment to be procured (para. 3.39).



- 27 -
5.2       During negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on:
(a) criteria for the location of the classrooms to be built during the
first year of the construction program (para. 3.7); (b) the regulations
governing sales of textbooks and the use of the revolving fund resulting
from such sales (para. 3.10); and tc) terms of reference for the specia >1t
posts (para. 3.41).
5.3       During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
(a) by October 30 of each year, starting in 1989s (i) organize an
annual meeting with IDA to review progress in achieving project
objectives, including those of the sectoral adjustment program
(para. 3.3); and (ii) furnish to IDA (a) the draft recurrent
budget for education for the upcoming fiscal year; and (b) the
draft investment budget for the education sector for the coming
three years. Both draft budgets shall be acceptable to IDA as
compared to the commitments made by the Government in the
Sectoral Adjustment Program (para. 3.3);
(b) open and maintain a Special Treasury Account for textbook renewal
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; replenish this fund
by March 30 of each year, starting in 1990, with amounts
sufficient to cover the costs of developing and printing school
'extbooks during that year; and ensure that (a) the proceeds of
all textbook sales shall be deposited into this account, and (b)
all funds deposited into said account shall be used only to
defray the costs of developing and printing textbook titles for
primary and secondary schools (para. 3.10);
(c) by December 31, 1989, agree with IDA on the detailed program
chosen for the experiment with double-shift teaching; start the
experiment no later than October 31, 1990; and review with IDA
the final results of the experiment no later than September 30,
1991, and implement the recommendation of the said review in a
manner acceptable to IDA (para. 3.12);
(d) by June 30, 1989, agree with IDA on measures to ensure that
beneficiaries of boarding and restaurant facilities at the ISS
bear the costs of such services, and implement these measures
when said services have become operational (para. 3.19);
(e) by June 30, 1989, restrict the function of the ENS tot (i)
provision of pedagogical training; (ii) training in subject
matters pertaining to management of education resources and
facilities; and (iii) in-service training for education sector
staff (para. 3.20);
(f) by June 30, 1989: (i) establish the new CEP in Boghe and the new
commercial CEPILEP in Nouakchott with curricula and admission
criteria acceptable to IDA; and (ii) discuss and agree with IDA
on measures designed to involve employers in decisions on course
content and in financing parts of technical schools' operating
costs (para. 3.26);
(g) by June 30, 1989, review with IDA CFPM's draft curriculam and
measures for securing the financing of all CFPM's operating costs



- 28 -
by the Borrower and potential private sector contit'r: !'.- ;nd
implement these measures by September 30, 1989 (pPerai i.'
(h) by September 30, 1989, determine the modalities for tru-s ferv:Xng
school maintenance reponsibilities to local cornunities; Ao0vQ1e;.
in agreement with these communities a se)ool oiaintenance systeL
satisfactory to IDA; and implement this cystem as fronL Septinher
30, 1990 (para. 3.34);
(i) by September 30, 1990, develop an action program satisfactory to
IDA for promoting private education (para. 3.34); and
(j) implement the project according to the arrangements and schedules
agreed upon during appraisal, including the procurement
procedures and the arrangements for project management,
accounting, auditing and reporting (paras. 3.36, 3.40, 3.42, and
3.46).
5.4       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be thats  (i) an
education planner has been employed in the DPC and that an architect and an
accountant have been employed in the PCU (para. 3.41); and (ii) conditions
for effectiveness of the cofinancing by the African Development Bank (AfDB)
have boen fulfilled.
5.5       Subject to the conditions set forth in paras. 5.1 to 5.4 above,
the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$18.2 million
equivalent on standard terms.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1-1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Basic Data
Gence.al
GNP per capita                           US$420 (1985)
Land area                                1,031,000 km2
Population                               1.7 million (1984)
of which urban                           31S
Population density                       1.6 per km2
Population growth rate                   2.12 (1980-85)
Crude birth rate                         45 per thousand (1985)
Crude death rate                         25 per thousand (1985)
Infant mortality rate                    170 per thousand (1985)
Life expectancy at birth                 45 (1985)
School Enrollment          Enrollment                     Pupil/Teacher
(1986-1987) a/           Ratio (2)      2 Female           Ratio
Primary Education              55             40              50
Secondary Education            16             29              23
Higher Education              4.8             23              21
Education Expenditures (FY87) a/
Public recurrent expenditures on education as 2 of total Government
recurrent budgets 22.02
Distribution of public recurrent expenditures by level of education:
Primary Education              322
Secondary Education            392
Higher Education               252
Central Administration          3S
Other                           12
Public Recurrent Expenditures per Student (1984)b/
US$
Primary Education              123
Secondary General Education   502
Higher Education             1,600 (1986/87)
a/ More details are provided in Annex 2-2.
b/ Cost estimates include expenditures on central administration.
bs annim.txt
(min)



- 30 -                      ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   "UNESCO-FADES Feasibility Study on the Development of Low-Cost
Education Buildings and Facilities: Mauritanie -- Etudes
Pr4liminaires", UNESCO-BREDA, Dakar, November 1984.
2.   "Qualification et formation en Mauritanie", ILO, Geneva, 1985.
3.   "CoOt et financement de l'education et de la formation en Mauritanie",
MinistOre de l'Education Nationale, BOM, mai 1984.
4.   'Annuaire des Statistiques Scolaires", 1982/83 to 1986/87.
5.   "Prograume de redressement economique et financier 1985-1988:  Secteur
Education/Formation", Ministare de l'Education Nationale, janvier
1986.
6.   'Efficacit4 interne de l'enseignement fondamental en Mauritanie",
Ministare de l'Education Nationale, BOM, janvier 1985.
7.   "CoUts, financement et politique de l'education en Republique
Islamique de Mauritanie', Alain Mingat et Jean-Pierre Jarousse,
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, novembre 1986.
8.   "Structures, coftts et financement de l'enseignement sup6rieur en
Republique Islamique de Mauritanie", Jeanne Lamoure, Ministere de
lVEducation Nationale, mai 1987.
9.   "Projet de Restructuration du Secteur de l'Education en Republique
Islamique de Mauritanie". Project preparation document prepared by
the Ministere de l'Education Nationale, June 1987..
10.  "Etude sur l'adequation entre l'emploi, l'education et la formation en
Mauritanie", Baccar Taoufik, Ministere de l'Education Nationale,
septembre 1987.
11. 'Transformation de l'Ecole Normale Superieure en un Institut Superieur
des Sciences", Universite de Nice, 1987.
12.  "Etude de la formation dans le secteur des pOches:  Partie I -- Etude
Globale, et Partie II -- Centre de Formation Professionnelle Maritime
(CFPM) de Nouadhibou", Ministere des P#ches et de l'Economie Maritime
(Study prepared by RDA International), octobre 1987.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 2 of 2
13.  'Centre de Formation Professionnelle Maritime de Nouadhibou:  Volumes
I et II", Ministbre des POches et de l'Economie Maritime (Study
prepared by SODETEG), septembre 1987.
14.  "Le systame educatif mauritanien a travers son evaluation, son
contenu, son efficacite et son coat', Abdoul Sow, IIEP, 1984.
15.  "Islamic Republic of Mauritanias  Investment Climate Assessment and
Private Sector Survey', USAID/Mauritania, August 1986.
b:annl-2.txt
(sar)



- 32 -                                             ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 7o  2
MAURITANA
CURRrNT STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION 5TM
AWC       h ft. lok on
___   1SPwn Secandwv.
a cwicu ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~  lqs&d*poc
O-U -  _
C.P - CuIUaot dAoflhj ~~~WEVSRuRM                                      do 
PE  Rabltd  TtugwitYtli
M - Mtu~ (Wi~fhIywm.)
MEnowb SWoI gabo (FinaLnudfamxit
CA -kgb 4omc.widwuftttwf                                                              In b
MS-i MT _
I  -mom" ax*-vft    me)                                __
l~ ~~Cfdlrvcl  dwtWdm*WtC"                                                         PER_EONO



- 33 -                                ANNEX 2-1
Pale 2 of 2
MAURIAA
POPOSED STRUCR OF 1KE EDUCATION SYSIEM
W  anIC                     .  .
2   d b        m          1  31_
mwmv~ ~ ~~Ei    _   E E R 
*1 2j X 4 Z 4 4 ~~~~~4  4 zI
6~1- I WNOWO  ANQ00Aoc
1.P -    b      at                   Mo(c4   
MM* r _QTWT0vl                    M - r,
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01f" .""I 



- 34 -
AhNEX 2-2
Pasg 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Statistical Profile of the Education Syst
This annex provides the following statistical Information on the development of
education In Mauritania:
Tablo 1: Enrollment and Enrollewnt Ratios by Levol of Education
Table 2: Primary School Teaehers by Qualification
Table a: Pupil/Teacher Ratios In Primery and Ceneral Secondary Education
Table 4: Staffing Ratios In Higher Education
Table S: Public Recurrent Experditures on Education by Level and Type of
Education
Table 6: Decompositio" of Recurrent Unit Costs by Level and Type of
Education
Table 7: Unit Costs In Higher Eduentlon by Institution
Note:    More detailed data on enroll_mnt and graduates In general
scondary and higher educotion are given In Annex 2-4.
In *11 table, the following eymbole apply:
- = nil or nogligible
,   data not available
Table 1: Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of Education
Primary Education      Secondary Education     Higher Education zJ       Enrollment Ratios (N)
School                    s                        I                     x        Primary  Secondary Higher
Year     Enrollmnt    Female    Enrollment  Female   Enrollment   Female    Education Education Education
1970/71    31,945        28          3,4?1        11       ...    ...                14        2
1976/76    60,945        35          7,179        16       927   (713)               26        4       0.9
1980/81    90,112       g8          22,102        20    2,420 (1,600)                o8       10       2.1
1984/86   126,866        40         33,196        27     5,039 (1,410)     22        49       16       3.6
1986/86   1406871        40         36,482        28    6,314 (1,473)      22        58       16       4.3
1986/87   18W,443        40         36,991        29     7,141 (1,763)     23        S6       16       4.8
y Includes students abroad; figures In parenthese s how their numbr.
Source: Enrollment data: Supplied by Ministry of Education.
Populotion data: World Bank estimates.
b:2-2t1.txt (SAR)



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 5
Tablo 2: Primary C:hool Teachors by Qualification
-----------Porcentnae Distribution----------
School                                          Instituteurc
Year         Total        Total  Institut*urn   Adlotnts    Moniteura
1976/79      1,659         uS          82           8o          a8
low/el       2,172        1t6          42           as           28
1904/65      2,783         10          79           2            15
1965/68      2,786        1to          76           16            8
1988/67      8,019        le          69           1J            7
Source:  Ministry of Education.
Table 8: Pupil/Teacher Ratios In Primary and General Secondary Education
Primary          General Secondary
School Year         Education             Education
1970/71                24                    22
1975/76                86                    27
1980/81                4i                    32
1904/85                46                    26
1966/8"                51                    24
1966/67                s9                    23
Source:  Ministry of Education.
Table 4:  Sttffina in Higher Education 1986-67
ENA   ENS/ISS  CFP/CEO   ISERI   CSET    UNIVERSITY    TOTAL
Teaching Staff
1) Prmanent               23        68       so       18      18        96          268
of which:
-  nationals               12       26       15       18       4        61          181
-  expatriates             11      657       1         -       9        35          127
2) Part-tim                10       24       27      21        3        63          148
TOTAL                   88     17        57      84       16       169         406
Administrative
Personnel                  68       48       47       27      16       101          U 2
Ratio Admin.
Personn-l/
Teaching Staff            1.9      0.4      9.0 8     .6     1.2       9.6          6.7
Source:  Jeanne Lamoure: Structuree, coOta et financment do l enxeignement sup6riour
on R6publique Islamiquo de Mauritanle, Ministry of Education, May 1967.
sLgend:  ENA     *  Ecole Nationale d'Administration
ENS     -  Ecol- Normls Sup6rioure
ISS     a  Institut Sup6rlour do Sciences
CFP/CEO =  Centre de Formtion des Profenssura de Coll4ges d'Enseign_ment Q6n6ral
ISERI a Institut Sup6risur d'Etudes at de Recherchen Iolamiques
CSET    a  Centre Sup6ri.ur d'Enseignmemnt Technique
b:2-fr,2-4.txt(ssr)



- 36 -                                    ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 5
Table 5: Public Recurrent Exponditures on Education
by Lovol and Type of Education
I                                  I      FY 19UY 1                                 FYf 1918
I     Level/Tye of Education              ------- I                     ----------l_ __
I                                  I Voted  I Executed  I  Voted  I Executed  I  Voted
I-------       ------------     ---- ------ ---------
Central Services                   I  102.8  I   107.5  I   101.6         165.9  1   112.1
IPrimary Education                     0 87.0  I   891.1  I   936.5  I   997.4  I 1,0368.2  I
C onornl Secondary Education       I  775.9  I   795.2  1   942.4         8 683.5  I 1,031.9  1
of which: Pedagogical Costs         159.2  I   688.5  I   832.4  1   773.6  I   921.9  I
Scholarships           I  106.7  I   106.7  I   110.0  I   116.0  I   116.0  j
Teaeher Training                   I   96.6  I    97.2  |    86.2  1    84.6  1    85.4
of which: Pedogoghcal Costs      I   86.9  I    S7.8  I    40.4  I    40.3  l    43.4
Scholarships               60.7        69.4  I    45.8  I    44.5  I    42.0  I
Technicol Secondary Education      I  116.8  I    96.7  I   112.7  j    90.7          1 117.4  |
I of whtch: Pedsgogical Coats      I   42.8  |    45.3  1    48.0  l    48.0           5 60.2  l
I           Scholarships (local)   I   16.0  t    11.7  I    18.0          1 18.6  I    16.0  I
l           Scholarships (abroad)         . 86.6  1    25.2  I    88.0  I    16.8  I    38.0  I
l           Transport Costs             14.2  I    18.5  1    18.7  I    12.9  I    14.2  I
IHIgher Education                  j  745.2  I   744.1  j   769.5  j   760.4  |   834.9  |
of which: Pedagogical Costs         824.0       3 824.0     3 828.9  I   323.9  I   898.4
Scholarships (local)   I  248.0  I   246.0  I   260.1  I   260.0  l   281.0
!           Scholarships (abroad)  I  128.7        128.1  I   148.8  I   126.8  I   146.0  I
j           Transport Coste             44.5        44.0  I    62.8        5 60.7  I    60.6  I
-----------------------------------
ITotnl Ministry of Educotion       I 2,718.8  I 2,780.8  I 2,948.9  I 2,912.6  I 8,217.9
Technical Ministries 1/            I  183.0  I   168.0  l   168.0  I   168.0  I   127.7
-              -                      -- -                    -----------------_-----_ 
ITotal Eduetion Sector 2/         I 2,881.8     2,898.9  I 8,116.9       0 8,80.5  3 ,345.6 
i   An percont of (Government budg t    1 22.3%   |  22.3X    22.7X i    22.4X   I  23.13 1
! ---- -- - - - - - -- -- -- - -- -- -------------------- 
Soure : Various Government budget documents.
1/  Includes ENFVA, CFPP, ISERI, ENFACOS, CNFCJ, ENISf;
does not Include CFPM (UM 24 millon In 1988).
2/ Figures do not Include overnment payment of lodging for
national and foreign toachers, estimated at U 5768 million
In FY 1988.
b:2-2tg.wkl
(min)



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-2
Pogo 4 of 5
Table 6: Decoeposltion of Recurrent Unit Costs, by Level
and by Type of Education, 1964-06
(million UN)
Genernl                      Technical       TOTAL          TOTAL
Primary        Secondary      Teacher       Secondory      Secendary      Higher
Education      Education      Training      Education      Education     Education
Enroll ent                        126,S86        89,640          1,137          1,079       38,106          4,121
Teacher Salarie                     ew0.1         644.1           26.8          48.6          10S.6            ...
Techer Housing Allowance.          (122.0)        (281.6)         (9.6)         (21.8)       (202.7)
Non-teaching Staff Salaries          86.1         257.8           20.0            6.2         286.6            ...
Housing Allowances                  (16.6)         (80-.)         (65.)          (1.6)        (67.4)
Total Expenditures
on Personn-l                        916.2         866.9           46.9          51.0          994.6         288.6
Materiel                        22.9          39.4            1.0          10.8           57.5          60.5
Transters                        -           104.1          80.2           14.6          190.9         818.7
Imputation for Expenditures
on Centrol Administration            28.2          17.6            1.1           2.9           21.8           -
Total Pubilc Expenditures           "95.6 (1)     990.2 (2)      189.0           65.6        1265.6 (2)    6ee.6
Unit Recurrent Costs (in UM)
(excluding Technical Assistance
Personnel)                          7,860        82,100       10,56M         79,8W 0        U,400        168,900
Technical Assistance (8)
Assesment A                         -            60.4            9.7          17.1           06.2          23.9
Assossmnt B                         -           104.6           21.4          82.7          168.6          65.9
Total Recurrent Unit Costs (in UM)
(including Techical Assistanco)
Assessmnt A                       7,650        84,600        117,766        95,200         29,609       174,700
Assessment B                      7,860        85,500        127,661       199,690         41,200       184,999
NOTES:
(1)  Includoe UM 28.8 million spent on primary education by local authorities and expenditures for
maintenance financed out of the budget of the Ministry of Equipment.
(2)  Includes UN 28.6 million spent on general secondary education by local authoritite  and expenditures for
maintennce financed out of the budget of the Ministry of Equipment.
(8)  The imputations made for the cost of technical assistance (T.A.) have been a*ssesd In two ways.
Asseso ment A:  Cost Is estimated equal to that of replacing T.A. by Mauritanian personnel with comparable
qualifications (i.e., salaries and housing allowances for Mauritanian personnel minus housing allowances
paid by the Government to T.A. whose salories are paid by donors). Assessment B: Cost Is estimated
qual to that of replacing T.A. by expatriate personnel recruited on local contracts. As housing allowances
*r  equal for the two types of expetriat  personnel, the additional costa represent the salaries
of expatriates recruited on local contracts.
Source: A. Mingat and J.P. Jarousse, Couts, Financoment et Politiquo
de I'Education en Republique de Mauritanie, Ministry of Education,
November 1986, p.46.
b:2-2tU.wkl (SAR)



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 6 of 6
Table 7:  Unit Costo In Hlgher Educatlon, by Institution
(million UM) 1/
TOTAL
Higher
School Year        ENA    ENS/ISS    ISERI     CSET   CFP/CEG  University  Education
-----     -  ----  ---    ---- ----- ---- --- --
S980/81           448         174      183      --          --                  175
1981/82            327        189      207       --        --                   144
1982/88            483        268      206       --         --           69     176
1983/84            964        364      140      868         --           76     198
1984/86            638        257       77      S00        196           83     169
19851W             a9w        248       93      389        19o           71     126
I/ See Annex 2-2, Table 4 for school acronyms.
*  not applicable since Institution did not exist.
Source: Jeanne Laoure; op.clt., Annox Table 18.
b:2-2t7.wkl



- 39-
ANNEX 2-3
COiWAAATtVI EDUJCATION ISOICATOISPae 1 o                                                            2
APIOL 1, 1988a i                                                                    Io      
I                2    S       2       5soll OUCATIOS SIICUSSWIT    SAOULt   I                       IRATE FOR  :         'UNIT' COST :PROGRESISSONS
I         l oIp PUSI           ASA  PERCENT   :EXPOWITUNgS SLTliAACYPR18AMYPEINA*    59*1511? : P11l*1y   -RATE FROM  -SSCmSAST:SECmHD**?HtGmI 
s                MMl  POP. sCAPITA SPEMCOIT GNP3TOTAL CENTALALzSLOCAT'8O TOsIRAT9    :SUO"...2CI40L            tS87UDENS,EDUCA1ZON :005A1Y TO :EIROU..  :STUDENTS :E11ROU..S
2           2Y~~~~IEARIMILLS.2(USS)  :9*90119 TO IG0VERnI     :941L $CC  MlI S  (S)   21A110  5(77C.8    :98   ~ As PESCO12SILCOHOAY  I1ATIO    :91R                55*100 
s      s    2(1979)2(1979) z G~sEUCATION 2lXPtPITUhU           CZ)V     I (1976)   (2)   2   (V)    :TIACHI4II WH/ CAPITA:    (V)           ( C)    slEACNIA     (V
:(1)  S(Z)S         (3)    2      (4)      2    (5)       :(6)        (7)  I   (8)    I (9)   I   (O) I    (11)   2 (12):   (13)   (14)2
AUSTIALIA     *~a    146   8,870       6.31        14.6        - -        -      -        103'     100         21         -99                      75        13       20.90
CANADA             81    2*3.711  9 6500    7.7'       18.Sa1       50" 344? 23?"   9*        1061      100         21        19.9?.       100          921       18      22.801
6811MW  F.1.       79    61.2  12,200       4.6         9.9.          -       -       9911     so       100'        -         -            100'         94'       -       12.1041
NETHERLANDSS       79    14.0 10,490        7.9          5.1       2035s25            9911     96        9          Is1       15.3          99          82        13      12.40
IRV UEALAND        60      3.2b  6,0611    5.5W         13.4        3?   31   28      99b     100       100         24        11.6         100          82        1S      25.80"4
$w18l              79     8.3  12,25        9.0         18.2        31   10   10      9*b      99'      100         1sa       19.9         100          791       10'?    56.50'?
1*818*5 APICCA
MOWg~-'            83      j*Q11    92ob    6.0         22.0        "1   s4   22      '0      icc        n7         32        10.0          40          20        21        1.80
60311W             61     4.2      235      2.0'        19.0       4328s27            25       29'       35         3?        20.2          12           3'       17       1.00
Comm          64~    0.4b1   545       3.8'        28.0        49  29  22        49       76        40         59        -             45          36        28       0.60
OJiUouTI           84     0.4      480      3.0         11.9       73  26  ...    10           42        66         40       67.0           40          10        9       0.60
ITNIOftA           85    43.0      110      3.60         9.5       in   28   17       39       37        30'        63        19.3          938         14        44       0.50
KONYA              82    17.4b1   42*    S.Skb          20. it     6.  16   11        4*      113        58         36        14.4          35          1s        26       -
1.18156            82      1.4b1   435b    5.5          16.9        38  3226          53      116X       41         48         9.6          46          21        21       1.30
HADAGASCAN         77     8.5      330      4.0'       24.0        53  2819           so       94*'      33         s511       8.0          38          14        23       3.10b?
SALAVI             81     6.111    23*b   3.5           11.4        58  14  25        250      62        23         65         5.8          12           4        21       0.40
PAIMITIUS          8a      1.0111,17Cl    4.3           14.0       46  36    7        so       93        72         23        13.0         100          s0        22       1.00
VWANA             83      S.9b1   271      3.6         27.4        71 1613           37o       85        30        40        16.0            9           5       16        0.40
SIYCHILLE8         79      0.6   1,770      5.9         22.4'       344 33410'                                      25        -                        -                  -
SOLIA              SI      4.5     280      1.5         10.5        so1  4411  611   So         2211     Sob        20         9.0h,        Bob         12b       22        1.00
SW0AN              80    19.2k    38*    3.0            -           66  39  ...    32           5lax     68         54         1.4     4                16        16       ..
SVA2I1.560         83      0.711    9401    3.          20.4        513415s           6511     93        so         33        1 1.          98          29        18        3.00
74512A82           80    18.       26       5.9         17.7        47  1016          791      9811      S7         43        11.0,          1*1         3        20'       0.30
UGANDA             60    12.6b    58011    -            16.1'       231137112011    48          54X      61         3&        -              17          5        23        0.600
LAM8               81    29.811    21*b   7.7           26.4        -   -1 0          5411      76       25         30        21.0          40           18       28        2.00
"MIAM              so      5.70,   56611    4.5p        11.1        48  2522          4411      95        o         48        12.9           19         16        22        1.30
ziNDASt            81      7.7b,   70b    5.1           19.5        62  32    6       4411      90       55         59        20.0          85          15        23        0.50
MESUS AFRItCA
Sint"            79      3.4b    32*b    6.5'         35.0        43  21           11jib      42        30         46       14.0           30          11       43        1.00?
95*525*            83      6.5     21011    2.1'        21.7        43  29  28        9         16        25        ST        24.3          16            3       24        0.03
CASSOCK            84    10.0      810o1    3.1P        -           33  3528         20         89       4511       so        -             -           23        28        2.70
C.A.A.             86      2.611    26*b   s.SAy        24.7'?      49   16   24    -           79       45         65'?      18             -           18       67        1.40I?
CHA"               76      4.4     120      2.4111y     21.7b1      - -           --1 s         25?       -         77        -              -           3'?      21        0.20?
cUow               73      1.5     670      9.0"?       27.?&Y                 -       -       -                    5611?b    --             30         -         43117     4.00'Y
160AT. GUtNEA      85      0.311    271     2.8          3.8        4?   24   ...   20b         is        10        80         5.2           40         25        17'? 
CAMO               77      0.6  3,420       3*71by       8.4'               -       -       -                       "by,      -              -           -        9117     2.80"Y
GAMIA              77      0.6     220      3.3"W        6.311      46   254   61   1011        4011      90'       279?      4.78          40          12111?    17        -
621AMA             76    11.3      400      4.0?        15:5b 11                     -          711y    -          2711,                    -           36111?    21       -
GUZINA             TO      5.3     2909    4.660        -           23' 28'12s&   20            3'        36        35        20.060        85          16        29        7.00'
6ulA8188AM         86      0.90    17       -            9.6        46  12-          15(?)      58       10         26         2.0          -            -        16        -
IVORY  587         83     9.311    72       7.3         42.8        51  40    9    35k?         72       79         37        29.0          49          22"2    30          1.88
LISOA              80      1.9     520      4.6         19.6        43  2524         50         52       32         35        20.0           76         22        20        2.90
mu1.               81      7.011    190     4.2*        21.?'       352111I    10               20       60         I4 5.7                  66           1        11        0.90'?
RIUMITAMIA         86      .711    410*    5.0         22.4        32  40  25       17         55       35         50        30.0          8416                  23        4.80
MIA5               84      5.2     3m       2.8         21.0        40  25  20       14         25       20         36        41.0          3?           6        28       0.50
NIGfZA             83    93.6b1   760       7.47        16.0        --1 13    36                93       70         36        19.5          47          23        30        2.00
SENES&l            84      6.4     380      5.01b       24.0        4* 35  111*28               32       59         46        26.0           19'        16'       24       2.20'
526381.19.         Tr      3.4     250      4.0b1       16.011      -    -    -      tgb        37'      -          35        23.011        84          15'       22       0.60w?
T060               78      2.4     400      6.54'       26.SQ       30' 28' 21'  18            74        40         5411?     38.0          52          3211w?    4*b       1.60*?
LATIN = tCA AND THE CAAIBUI*
'RGSWI             78    2.3   2,21         2.?         10.9        434  31' 18'  9311          89       S2         17        -             67          31         8      23.00
84A4AM4            TV      0.2  2,770       5.?         19.1        36  36  11       9311       99       97         24        -             97C         75        19       -
8*55*A08           76      0.2   2.680      8.5"?y      22.1'       434  31' 160   9911        100?      99'        277       19.94          "a'        TV)       20'     -
BOLIVIA            80      5.4      55      4.1'?y      30.50       -    -    -      63         747      -          20?       -             -           IS5?               12.60?
83*221             79   116.5   1,770       3.8          6.2        51   -    14    76          73'?     -          234?       4.5b1        61*         15*?      1497    12.6211
CHILI              76    10.9   1,890       3.2k'       13.01b      -    -    -      -        11911zy    -          5411?            -        -         S$by    a011y   11011y
COLOAMA            a0    26.71b1I1801b    3.3           25.0        3520D20          81ib      ?8        36         32         6.6          -           47        20      10.0)2'?
COTA RICA          so      2.2111,81011    8.4          31.1        4027?33          90         93       77         33         5.5          7740                  27      14.00
CtmA               is      9.8     -        8.0         11.0        -    -    -      96        112111?    98        1811      -             98          ?j11xy    15      19.02k?
DOOSMICAN UP.    OD        5.3   1,030      2.9         13.0        59  21  22       6811       so       31         59         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
1C51A865           80       5411  1,110     6.OP        36.7        45   31   16    81        105        -          36        12.6          86          47        16      29.00
EL IAVANI        7       4.4     640      3.4b1?      23.1by      6      827    62            82111     32        39        -              41         26111?    27117     7.90*y
SU LIIA        78      6.8   1,010      1.797       12.611b          -    -      -          6911w?    -         33117     -              69         15111?    191?      5.50?
OWANA         76      0.8     630    *S11by        13.611?        -      -      -          9911xy    -         321by     --             -          59'?       -        3.0011Y
HAM21              so      5.*b    230      3.4'         7 947      65    9    6    231         so       20         41        19.0                       4'       270       0.80
HONOUR"8           78      3.6    5SW       3*5117      14.311Y     62' 1$' 19.   60            g,11Y    3D&        4j11?     12.8'         68'         21'y      19       8.001
JSAICA             so      2.1   1,110      6.5         13.7        37  4320D    90             98       98         40         2.3                      al 8      22       8.00
502CC              60    65.5   1,88        4.7         17.0'       46  3915         92         98       53         44         9.3          86          36        17      10.30
HICARASIA          78      2.611    61*b    3.O0"       14.Ob       -    -    -      gob         5bx1    24         379       -             -           26*'      3*      -
PANANlA78             1.811  1,5501    5.s1wy      2I.811y     424  134  13    8211        9511?     -         25117      11.6         as5         50by      279?    20.40117
PARA6UAY           79      3.0   1,140      1.4'        14.2        42  1720         64         83        32        28         3.1"          76         22        12       0.70
PaRu               60    16.6  1,000        3.6         14.3        5315s19          60         83        56        39         9.8           89         39        22       14.40?
TRINIPAD STOI.   7         1.1   3,910      4.811y   ~ g.bY         48  3220         95         98       91         58        10.5?         49          62        24      -
URUUSAY            76      2.92,500         2.5          9.411      -    - -   94              105111    -          24*       -              -          6411               1'6097S
VE15U.*A           78    14.4   3,440       5.1?        18.911      -    - -   82              106D'      -         26        -              -          30'       17      21.10Y



40 -                                                     ANNEX 2-3
COSPARATt" WXATNR LOICATOS                                                  Page  2 of 2
MtL 1, im
te  M-ITM    .OMTION    I                        tcowLertat            ;IktCkdlW
I   ftKATtal togCUUM          :&W       s        -ARTS Om   I          ;UNIT cap  -.0106mstans
IGM pal                   peon    topMITUMA tLITUACTsMMAVtftUWv  SPISMA, Mt"l  AAT9 "    UCOWMVSStCOWART;NI642
-0193 POP. SCAPITA IPPCW    WITOTAL CJMSLlALLOCATO  10tivATI    :011OLL.110"                    -STUMITA.MuCATIRE OBSOLUT TO IOMOLL.  j$?UDVM   :VIROLL.:
IvMtNLLS z(uss)  :WOM    M  940NOMMI   int  MC  at i  (2)   2RATtO  tCVCLS                      spa       t as Potot:uco"v  'RATIO    ;PM                :RATIO
I    MIN; (WO) I CBWATton scomiTum   t                   (2)     t (I"G) I (2)          (2)    it"CNN  IGOICAPSTAS    (1)              (2)   tTgAcm"        (s)
s    ,                I            t                                                            t         I
(1)     (1)  I    01,   2         (4)     t    (5)        I  (4) I  (7)t   CS)    -  (0)   t    (10)                (III   s   (121        (13)    (14)
t-j-
la Am Tog Picirtc
3qr    3.1          ?.I         n    40   n       "D        TV        a         is          6.0         65           n         17       4.80
tu"MIA                "ISO.50    SW         I.,          9.3         10   26    6      no        96        61         v         11.0          ?4          v         la        3.?O
KIM                a      JR.    I           ?.VW       20.4         sh   36   II      96        99        IS         43        16.0          ST          F2        u         4.00
WALAYM             S6    16.1   1            6.7         16.3        is   40   a       70        qg        SO         n         16.0          a           F2        22        4.00
PARIS, e.g.        a       3.04    M         5.4         19.0        40   I?   22                60        ?v         W         ISA           35          IV        272
79    jab    #90         Le          14.0        44   36   -                 a         65                     r.1         0           51        SG
AftIwIMS                                                                                                              51                                                     , 00
Sti&PM             so      1.4   4AN        2.7           6'7        30   40   U       63        92        a          31         4.4          96          59        22        8.00
SOL        tK.    la      0.210   40       RAW          MiP         41   34   M       15        is        so         v         lo.$          40          go        IS        2.90
TmtLm              a      49.611   soop    3.*           20.3        M    14   10      "D       101        0          zi         9.16         44          46        Is        4.00
vmmtu              a       0.16    -        0.3          23.5        61   v      4     Is       iis        so         24        31.0          is          20        14        2.00
im        en       19    02.3b       go      1.10        10.14v      51   I?   so      Ub        63Y                  53         SA                       U         23        1.43
INWM               so   1.2   40   3.6                   11.0        -  -  -    to    It                              -
U&SA               77   659.6       210     2.9y          9.9vy      -        -     -  36        "a                   41                                  w         -         6.30SY
IMP&               a      15.00    ISO       1.4        -            -    -    -        so       M                    3B                                  21        23        S. ?a*
PAMPAN             a      47.11)    no       2.0          7.0        N    20   24      n         so        41         so          1.9         $6          21        Is        5.00
IE"T AND fAM ANICA
M      OM    11  17.7   -                    1.7          3.7    47  IS  15   la    sior   0                          RD         -            62           4        2207   I.ODY
ALMIA               79    10.5   I'"O        LOW         12.3        344  20   210    31         83Y       00         9           ?.CR        SS&         29Y       26        L?v
9401               U      43.34k    M&    4.ed            1.9        W    338  AAA               rs.       we         340         9.60        834         436       Ito      1?.OO
4meg                To     S      4,140      2.60        IO.Ab       v    26   ST                OIDY                 20          6.2?        -           ?on       27by    17.6or
mm                 79    3.19       -       9.78y        14.1ar      -        -     -  so       l0las                 no         -            -           44AR      240       4.900Y
am                 79    12.6   2,TIO       4.34W         6."y       -    -    -       -        IODY                  a                       -           458y      290      9.3cay
SILAS              In      3.40  4,40        6.3ey       11.881,     -        -     -  96        93        94         29                      go          41        14       11.00
JONM               41      LO   lAzo         4.9m        10.2        19   44   is       ?v       920                  u          13.1                     690       30        8.90
LNANN              19  2.3  -   -                        WASPY  -  -  -   -    w                                      19    -                             w    -   27.Rosy
floacc             44    21.00    610        6.05        22.9        2    43   It       n        $70        9         Si         19.1                     US        38        6.90t
NM                 as      1.20  6A900    3.1            II.?"       -        -     -   M"       ri"       654        254        -            go          110       140      ...
PO"Usft            a      10.20, Iqw         6.6         11.5        so   as   Is       so      123        to         Is         16.9         u           $9        16        8.00
NOWAU              74    U.1   2,100         S.           6.v        -        -     -  96       1060,                 IV         -                        44"       22yi    10.60by
Wm                 76  V.0 4,M    WY    16AW   -  -  -   -    98"                                                     to    -                             67ft   -   24.1ODY
MIA                is      S.6   1,110      6.40         10.3        30   as   a       S         WY        so         nD         --           68          4107      210     12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130       1.0p        14.0        42   it   Is      60       lw         0          so         Ili                      w         30       6.00
TVUM               a       47.5  IM         3.3         16.2         so   n    zi      To       110                   $I          6.0         55          26        11       8.00
"M    &.I.         as      9.30    $30       T.v         17.7        40   n    11      SIR       55        a          51         17.4         40           9        20        1.910
"M PAA.    a    L-   QO   1.6                             g.?    634 140  v   n                  0         36         a          U.09    46               17    20           Lso
WGUM1108                        66              03   70  0  67   61    92    68                           Of         65           Vs          91    as    $5
laws                                       (1.4-          Mr-  Wv-  to.  cs-    w             (12-      (la-        (it-       (1.4-        (lo.        (1-       (a-      (0.03-
10.0)          54.3)  961   461  33)    904        lit)      "I          IT)        $?.*)        100)        46)       W        29.0)
emmitats owl                                9.6           11.7      51    S        a  91        qs        a          43         10           v           47        26       11.0
ftdims                         4.0            16.1      43    a    It     $3        a         61         n          Is           as          26        22        W
Laws                           5.0            11.0      n    II   13      a         do        35         a           9           40          14        19        1.0
We"Itt "Octions                             1.3            9.4    6.S  7.5  4.5   U.0         104       MS          7.0        SA          0.5         16.9       5.3        S.0
ftent                                    .4.4             17.0      0        a     n  n         76        IS         36         16           AS          31        23        6.9
st&lmwd oftiat"at                           1.9            S.?      Is   10    r      it        v         14         II         Is           v           23         t        7.4
Melons                                     6.0            Wo        a        a    "   93        83        61         n          .$           Gs          a         22        SJ
ft 1,
MAW WAVAILNU                                                 A - "lw role lo on WM                              S - olkg$M W MMATIN UWII OILV
FAMLITM UL 0 WKWULA                                          9 - MW Ms macea tIL" an VIM                        I - OM M PATI OMNOW  OULV
t  SATW NoTtWAA                                                   a - CUBW Palen                                      0 o PUKU 9XPMITUNg ONLY
=CLLONS Pot-?=  slum&"                                      I - IMT MORLOW OVIO                                 s - INCLWU OWBI-M  guROM
v a am 90OLLOW auto                                     ungso SOOM
P *so
ISINICIII CatoM 1 And It LVrtd $W* Mtes or Idiscatten doetor fWd witelwa.
Catueft 3 to 144 V"td Saft fidnatieft tfttor aftellovs, Go""Mift OMW"s
swer the unno stotisticat yearbook.
toglW tive Idwonion Veto wo u"fut fA the evet"tten of vwlaw eftectlan wetm ad antrelt of retotive stem of
4dmcft= dm .. - between veriew amtri". mwwr, an tie onto of tte arew" dato, treat-66timm caawt"n
obsMtd be 4morewhedvith ~ tootion. 800 pr"eftod 44% tim dkm 146te hM OM cottooted targo(, by W* sistiom
trw  go   -- b swurgem; the remoulew  we Staff *Stleates or data frlm vm"eo.  affeng km    NW    asto to StAn"reig,
4MOiti0ft NW, witkts tillitS, to " I ft atcuMv of the date. ft -1 Notose, onk dna we nit% tow"nt In
moor f"onu a" tow um is "ftill To Igorq," tkm 0 Oro Rivets, ok too ocessun G# its apaposionaL "ft. in tm
am  of  -     dste, the fottoming gatifigstion  woutd In km   fA Winds
(1) 91*AMtW St 4bfiMO fm 00 UMS tfttudso att oteMiao SW troiniag, Wtll IOML ON rbw-f~.
(1)   "Oflow         adwarlaft refers, to  a.,  lo" St 00 fiftt Lovet, an' .20terAtwe  morAtion reform to GLL edwestlan
at tte "CARS" Wwt #-Oowano Of t"w (*.I., Oswret, teemicat, wicutbwail.
(3) 'Lluray ratte Cect. 61 am often obtaind fro  ry coftftn- gn Om COURtries tmy am anty
OPPMatedion NW  ft Is doubtfut That eV tmitore definition ot Ititerate  AAA bw    tot',    amittamty.
(4) -Pkibtle p  cup* 4ft sonalor ("kg. 4 ud 11 ftfft to att aeltat WM peculle" . jtvm dmtod 0
O&A"4410 by patts ad 4wai."tic Sonia.
(5)   IGW"         retlea' (Ootg. 7, It ON to  Wor to WhML VW    so  on  tie wremop  of ottelma, caltdmo
~    tod futt-tim  fA tow M    am          0  A, vAtIs ed ortwAo by WK.  Th"  mm  often awbJect u  o side
lmfoll of ww in tOo ds"LWeV cowittle anigg tp ear4atione in tft "OW40 of bait due ti.q.,
"P4PS44#44 OWW460 VA OWet    -6).  Imemitteaft  fipwn  frommety we Sloer oan the aviW    ot
tOtwdPft OftwttY is Icbmi- *W*r-SW st.01MRS eV It lfttWO to tkm fitim opd go tfffteft tft e0in.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Enrollment and Graduate. In Ooneral Secondary and Hlgher Educatton
This annox provid e the following statistical information on the development of enrollment and
graduates in General Secondary and Higher Education In Mauritania:
Table 1:  Enrollment In General Secondary Education, by Cycle and
Stream
Table 2: Distribution of Enrollment In Generol Secondary Education by
Language of Instruction (N)
Table 8: Bacholiers by Stream (success rate at the baccalour6at given
In parentheses)
Table 4:  Enrollment In Highor Education by Institution
Tabl- 5:  Origin of Now Entrants to Higher Education by Type of
Baccalour6at
Table 8:  Graduates from Higher Educatlon, by Institution
a   nil or negligible
Table 1: Enrollment In General Secondary Education, by CYCle and Stream
Distribution of Second Cycle
Total                                          Enrollment by Stream (X)
School                 Both         First        Second         Stream A:      Stream C:    Stream D:
Yer                  Cycles         Cycle         Cycle         Literary       Mathematics  Natural
Sciences
1976/77               7,995          8,654         1,441            52             81           17
1980/81              19,898         14,167         5,781            47             19           84
1984/85              80,849         19,601        11,339            45             16           40
1985/86              83,148         20,498        12,665            45             1S           49
1986/81              35,026         21,218        18,812            45             14           41
Soure-:  Ministry of Education.
b:2-4t1.txt (SAR)



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Distribution of Enrollment in General Secondary Education
by Language of Instruction
(percent)
School                  --      First Cycle -------        ------Second Cycle------
Year                    Total    Arabic    French          Total   Arabic    French
1976/77                    i00        22         78           100      19        81
1982/83                    100        60         40           100      42        58
1985/86                    100        72         28           100      64        36
1986/87                    100        72         28           100      69        31
Source: Ministry of Education.
Table 3: Bacheliers by Stream (success rate at
the baccalaur6at given in parentheses)
Stream A:  "Lettres        Stream C:      Stream D:  Stream T:
Year         Total         Literary   originales"   Mathematics   Natural    Technology
Sciences          ..
1976         161 (56Z)    90 (49Z)          -         29 (58Z)       38 (84?)    4 j44?)
1980         705 (50Z)   372 (48Z)          -          77 (56O)    225 (50?)   31 (72Z)
1984       1,234 (38Z)   632 (45Z)    22 (962)        92 (44Z)    419 (30?)   69 (46Z)
1985       2,004 (43?) 1,050 (51Z)   113 (88Z)    162 (45Z)    616 (33Z)   63 (41Z)
1986       1,612 (342)   627 (31Z)   167 (82Z)    156 (39Z)    599 (2S')   63 (45Z)
1987       1,556 (26Z)   599 (242)   168 (62Z)    191 (362)    539 (22?)   59 (43?)
Source:  Ministry of Education.
b:2-4t2-3.txt



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page a of 4
Tabl- 4: Enrollment In Hiaher Education by Institution 3/
-----University--------
iSJbse lof which
yeer        Total         ENA V/  ENS/ISS       ISERI       CSET      CFP/CEG     Totel       FSJE       FLSH
!"75/77        214          99        115           -          _           _          _           _
I/S            5 _ #|120   101        629          90          -           -          -           -          _
"9"4in5      S,029         171         665        525         76         260      1,748      1,126         823
I666/11      4,641         178        848         468         67         292      2,968      1,670       1,939
Is"O/57     65$76           82        785         648         52         296      8,613      1,939       1,874
See Annex 2-2, Table 4 for explanations of acronyms for name  of Institutions.  As regard. the two
fevitles of the University, FSJE a Faculty of Economics and Law, and FLSH a Faculty of Letters and
SHlmmltles.
V Tobtl tor lonq and short cycle.
Serses Miniastry of Education.
Table 6: Orldin of New Entrante to Highor Education by
Type of Baccalaur6st. 1986/87
sbrsms        Stream A:       Stream C:         Stream D:         Stream T:       Totel
Literary      Math emtics    Natural Sciences      Technology       (X)     Enrollment
!olwltlew
LlZ        ~100               ---                                              10          68e4
U                7E0              -                 B                  -           100         932
m/S#IlK           -              32                 e8                 -           100         268
XII.            1 W               -                  -                 -           100          15
CmlT                      -                          -               1se           10W          23
CW-M/ENS          -
bs4v Abroad       -              22                 68                10          1W          340
Csomsre          s8              12                 42                 8           10W         120
No uew a*dmssions In 1986/87.
Sbeos:  Jeanne Lamour, op.cit., p. 20.
bst-ft4-S.txt (SAR)



- 44 -                                                ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 4
Table 6: Graduates trom Hioher Education by Instttution
Year of Graduation      1976       198le     181       1982       1908      1984      198l      1986
ENA                       77         27        26        St        91         86        54        95
Sbv-t cycle NA*           77         10        10        87         81        49        82        C5
Long cycle  A              -         17        10        14        10         37        22 /      40
ENS/ISS                   40       l8        149       825       241        888       271       814
of which:
Lyc6e Teachers             -         51        87        le         76       128       120       123
- Humanitles Teachers                47        28        S1        66         77        64        es
- Science Tachers          -          4        14         9         10        46        56        G8
Assistant Inspectors       -         16         -        26                   20         7        12
First Cycle Graduate.    40         6a        112       230        166       182       144       179
UNIVERSITY                  -         -         -         -          -         -        95       173
Masters In Humanities       -                                                  -        24        67
Masters In Low and
Economic Sciences         -                                                   -        71       106
CFP-CEQ/ENS                -          -         -         -         -          -       100       128
'Low,r Secondary
School Teachers)
ISERI                      -         -          -         -        69         8o         -        GO
(Teachers In Iel-mc
Culture and Religion)
-  -  -  -  16     19/ V      21        S
of whieh:
U-nior Technicins          -          -         -         -        16         19        10        18
Tochnical Instructors     -          -         -         -         -          -        11        12
TOTAL                117        167       169       876       408       468        641       795
J  Estimted.
/ Including 5 OUT.
Source: Jeanne Lamoure, op.cit., p. 25.
b:2-4t6.txt



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Financial mDmlications of Educational Policies
1.        Background. To further the education dialogue between the
Government of Mauritania and the Bank Group, IDA organized in April 1987 a
three-day seminar in Nouakchott to review, together with Government
officials and staff of the various institutions of higher education,
alternative options for the development of education in Mauritania,
especially as relates to the tertiary level. As a background for these
discussions, simulations of the impact of alternative educational policies
were performed using the Bank's EDFISIMO Model. Further simulation
analyses were undertaken as background information for discussions of the
Government's education strategy held in June 1987, during the one-week
visit to Washington of a delegation of Mauritanian officials led by the
Minister of Education. These analyses and exchanges of views between IDA
and the Government served as important inputs into the formulation of the
education sector adjustment program that the Government has decided to
implement under the Education Sector Restructuring Project; they have also
served as basic elements of the Structural Adjustment Credit concerning the
Education Sector. The finalization of the simulation process was carried
out during the appraisal mission in January 1988, when the final numerical
valuea of the target policy indicators were determined on the basis of the
expenses effectively spent during Mauritania's 1987 fiscal year (ending
December 1987).
2.        AssumDtions behind the simulations.  The simulation model used
allows the analysis of the effects on primary school enrollments and
enrollment ratios of changes in the following parameterst
(a) Annual rate of growth in the Government's recurrent budget (GB),
(b) Share of GB devoted to education (EB),
(c) Annual growth rate of the first-cycle secondary education budget,
except for scholarships (BUD1),
(d) Annual growth rate of the second-cycle secondary education budget,
except for scholarships (BUD2),
(e) Annual growth rate of the technical secondary education budget (BUD3),
(f) Annual growth rate of the secondary education scholarship budget
(general and teacher training -- BUD4),
(g) Annual growth rate of the higher education budget. except for
scholarships for students in Mauritania and abroad (BUD5),



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 4
(h) Annual growth rate of the higher education scholarship budget, for
students in Mauritania and abroad (BUD6),
(i) Annual growth rate of the central administrative budget (BUD7),
(j) Number of pupils per class in primary education, and
(k) Growth rate in the purchasing power of teachers' salaries (PS).
3.        Parameters (a) and (b) govern the share of the country's
resources devoted to public expenditures on education; parameters (c) to
(i) govern the allocation of education resources between levels, whereas
parameters (j) and (k) affect teacher salary costs per pupil in primary
education. Schematically, the model works in the following way. For given
initial values and future annual growth rates of GB, EB, and BUDI to BUD7
budgets, the model computes, as a residual, the amount of resources
available for primary education. Next, for given values of parameters (j)
and (k), the model calculates unit cost per pupil-year in primary
education, taking into account (1) costs of training material and of
administration and, most importantly, (2) the distribution of the teaching
force by qualification and salary scale level of each qualification
category. There exist currently three categories (moniteurs, instituteurs
adjoints, and instituteurs), but it is assumed that all newly recruited
teachers are instituteurs, given Mauritania's traiiing and recruitment
policy. Division of the total recurrent budget for primary education by
the unit cost thus derived, gives the total number of primary school
students that can be accommodated for a given budget and unit cost.  The
model also gives other outputs, such as new entrants into the primary
cycle, primary enrollment ratios, teacher requirements and construction
costs. It also takes into account enrollment in private education and
permits the simulation of the effects of changes in teaching loads and
curriculum hours on teacher requirements and, hence, on unit cost and
enrollment.
4.        Lessons.  To study the scope for expanding primary school
enrollment through a reallocation of resources in the education budget, a
number of simulations were carried out. The results of seven of these
co.-mputations are summarized in Table 1. The base year for the simulations
is 1987 (i.e., school year 1986/87 and fiscal year 1987), and all
assumptions regarding growth rates in budgets are in real terms.
5.        Simulation I shows that if the policies governing intrasectoral
resource allocations and unit costs were to remain unchanged, even under a
3Z annual growth rate in the government budget and education budget, the
primary enrollment ratio would decline from about 55Z in school year
1986/87, to 46Z in 1993/94 and 432 in the year 2000. Simulation IV --
which takes into account the cumulative effect of the policies described In
Simulations II, III and IV, i.e., (1) the freezing of higher and secondary
education scholarships (general and teacher training) at their 1987 levels,
(2) the freezing of higher education operating expenses at a level
corresponding to the 1987 budget, plus an 112 increase to take into account



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 4
the new astatut des personnels" in higher education and a gradual
Mauritanization of teaching staff, and (3) containment of operating costs
in second-cycle secondary education resulting from the restrictions on new
admission to this level 1/ -- shows that the strategy decided upon by the
Mauritanian Government will allow primary enrollment to expand
substantially (from 150,443 in 1986/87 to 194,900 in 1993/94 and 266,800 in
the year 2000/01) and will prevent primary enrollment ratios from
decreasing in the medium term without increasing education's share of the
government budget.
6.        In order to increase primary enrollment ratios in the future,
additional actions need to be taken. The most effective measure would be
the reduction in unit costs. However, the scope for such a reduction is
limited, given the actual low quality of primary education and the fact
that the average class size is around 55. Simulations V and VI show the
impact of two measures through which increases in the primary enrollment
ratio can be obtained. Simulation V estimates the effect of an increase in
education's share of the government budget. It shows that a moderate
gradual increase in education's share of the government budget (from 22.42
in 1987 to 242 in 1993 and stabilization thereafter) can result in a
sizeable increase in primary enrollment ratios, if the extra resources are
allocated to primary schooling. Simulation VI shows that a decrease in
primary teacher salaries in real terms (22 per year for seven years and
stabilization later on) -- which means that salaries will increase over
this period but at a lower rate than inflation -- may have a substantial
quantitative impact on primary enrollment ratios, while maintaining
education's share of the government budget. It should be noted that a
decrease in teacher salaries is not among the measures included in the
Sectoral Adjustment Program agreed upon by the Government and the World
Bank (cf. Annex 3-1). However, it is a fact that during the last several
years the growth rate of teacher salaries has been below that of inflation.
7.        Finally, Simulation VII shows the impact of a 92 annual increase
in budgetary resources for primary education, which has been envisaged by
the Mauritanian Government.  The resulting impact on primary enrollment and
on primary enrollment ratios is substantial, creating enough places in
primary schools to accommodate the country's entire school age population
by the year 2000. The share of education in the government budget would,
however, have to increase from 22.42 in 1987 to 262 in 1993 and 292 in the
year 2000, coupled with a policy of constantly allocating almost all new
resources to primary education. Naturally, in the long run, a policy that
exclusively favors primary education is not realistic.
b:ann2-5.txt (min)
1/   Confer Annex 3-1 which describes the different policy measures
included in the Sectoral Adjustment Program agreed upon between the
Government of Mauritania and the World Bank.



Table 1: Summary of assumptions and their impact on prliary enrol lmente
I|                                        Enrollment In Primary      Enrollment Ratio In Primary (M) I X Education in Govt. Budget  1
ASSUWPTIONS            | After 7 yrear lAfter 14 years  After 7 yers  lAfter 14 years  I After 7 yearstAfter 14 years I
1993     I    2000            1998      I    2000             1998     I    20 
I NfITIAL CASE (School year 1986/87)             160,443                          66.1              I             22.4
| SIM I- 8% Increras  In all Ite s    |   159,650    1  187,800    |      48.0      1    48.8       |    22.4            22.4
SIM SI   -as SIM I * freezing of        180,8         229,900           62.2      |    68.2        I    22.4           22.4
Bursary In Higher Educa-   l
I         tion and in General        l              l              l                l               l
Secondary Education
I                                    I              I                               I              I                       I            I
SIM III - as SIM II  llX Increase  l   187,600    1  249,800      1     54.1      1    6                22.4           22.4      I
In operating costs in HE  l             l               I               I                l             l               I
In 198 then freezing     1              1               1               I                1             1               1
SIM IV - as SIM III   Secondary                                           56194,900  286,S  6.2  1    61.7  1    22.4  I    22.4   1
l         Second Cycl- operating     l              l                               I               l
cost growth 2% for three   l                                      I                                      I l
       ~years and lX lstor on
lSIM V - as SIM IV   gradual             2J8 87,200                1       8.8           71.1             24.0           24.0
lncrease of the share of    l             l
education In government
I                                                  I  t                            I
SIM VI - as In SIM IV + 2 per           280,400       3 818,800   |      8C             73|    22.4                    22.4
year salary decrease in                   l
real terms for seven years||||                                                          
SIN VII - as in SIM V * 9X growth       266,719       468,600           73.s            108.1           24.8           29.0      !t
per year In prlmary                                     ! 
___________________  budget _
b:tlann2-S.wkl (mTn) a)                                                                                                                      Jn
s0 4he



- 49 -
ISLAMIC oWrLC OFMMITAS
EUCATION SECTim RIS1KIEIN  PMOJECT
TOM  IO SCltARUIP UXl   ETS FP
sECM      A  HM 13 DOUCKATI
------------ -                                           1061  19S2    1u         19114   im     to l"  191"7    ini
I                      Scholarships                        9   1S2J  1S2.9 1.2.9  14.4  1
GENRAL SECONDARY                   _                     0                  114::
I                      Scholarships In         1turz    U.S   1S.1  1S.2   14.1  II I.
|                ~~~~Scholarships                   U.?    7S .1    U. 9   9.9   04.4    
ITEACHER TRAINING       ----------------------"                                      - - 
I                      X Scholarohipe In expenditures  I *2 1  796 S   n.S  94.4  71.1
Scholarships/Dometic etudit            I
1 1/                                    __ _ 119.5 112.   n9.0   6.2  70.4 _
ITECHNICAL SECONDARY    Scholarohips/Studieo abroad     j             I
I                       _________                -    .         __ __I  __
i% Scholarehtp. In expendituree o e.7  56.6  51.1  44.9  44.7 I
I      - ----_-                                                 _        _    _ -           _
Scholarships                    k2P.2 292.9  266.6 121  255.9 2
ITOTAL S-CONARY          I-_       _     _    _    _                                        -
X Scholarohips In expendIture     8 6.4  84.2  SU.6  27.9  26.0
Scholarships/Domestic studies 
-- -  -  ---------------------126 . 1871.8  568.4 1616.6 1876.8
INIOER EDUCATION       Scholarships/Studioe abroad OI 1
I                      ________                          __--   I
5 Scholarshipe in oxpenditure o  76.7   S9  S     .9 69.    6   .
1/ Until 1965, tho figurso for scholarships include  ENFVA and CPP, whil  thee.
*choole r. not taken Into account for 1S6 to 166.
o Tho flgure In the upper left eorn r Is the ratio of scholarships la RIM to Ot Il
expenditures in higher education In RIM.
The fi guro In the uoper rloht corner It the ratto of t4tol schola rship to
tot rl nxp ndtturs  for hightr adul tton.
Doe. not include the cost of scholarships awardd by donor countrtce, which
were estimated at UM 165  Ii on In 1965.
b:snn2-8.wkl
(Can)



-50             ANNEX 2-7
11
2
TzIrI
*iii !i=iE
88~ ~~j
ps __



ISLAMIC WA1UUC OF   IZTAN4A
EDUCATION SECTORt RESTRAUTURINo PROJECT
Revlow Criterla for Sectoral Adjustment Progrm
This Annex suarizes the crittria to be used for the review
of progress towards achliving objectives of the Sectoral Adjustm_nt
Program outilned In pars. 8.2 of this report.
_   _    _ _   _  _   _  _   _      _  _    _   _  _   _   _   __ _        _  _  _    _   _   _  _ _
I                   MEASURES AGREED UPON                                                   REVIEW CRITERIA
I-             ----                     -         --                      - --        -                                      -i
A. MEASURES TO INCREASE PRIMARY EDUCATION'S                  j                                                                            |
DSHRE OF THE EDUCATION BUDGET e                           I
II. Ensuring that, through FY1993, the total annual              Verify during annual reviow meeting that, respectively, ACTUAL
I   scholarship budget for general secondary education,          e expenditures for preceding fiscal year and PROPOSED spending            1    u
teacher training and higher education does not exceed        for upcooming fiscal yer are In accordance with target.                  1
Its FY198? levtl (1iM54 million).                                                                                                     |
12  Ensuring that, through FYI998, th  annual rate of            As for Measure I above.
growth in the recurrent budget for higher education
does not exced 8X. The base-year figure for this
Indicator (FY198) Is UM4U0 million.
a.  Ensuring that, through FY1998, the annual growth             As for Measure 1 above.
rate of the recurrent budget for first cycle general                                                                                  1
s secondary  ducation does not exceed the growth rate         I                                                                            I
of the total public recurrent budget for education.                                                                                   t
14.  Ensuring that, through school year 1992/98, the number      Verify during annual review meeting that now admission for
of new entrants to the first grade of second cycl        I  current year is In accordance with target.
1   genoral secondary education does not xceed the 1987                                                                                    I
I    level (UM  pupils).                                      I
6. Ensuring, through FY1993, an annual growth rate               As for Measure 1 above.                                                  i
in the recurrent budget for primery education
of at lest 9U. 9
6. Ensuring that, through school year 1992/93, annual        j  Verity during annual review meeting that total enrollment for             I
enrollment at the ISS does not exceed 00 students.       i  the current year is In accordance with target.
_ _                                                                                                                   ___   __ I   _  -------------------------_o
e  All budgetary figures quoted In this annex are In nominal terms.                          
'Al



IEASUES AMEED UPN                                                     REVIEW CRITERIA
1_______ __________                                       ___ ______                   __         _ __        _                          I
IS. MEASURES TO REDUCE UNIT COS
7.  Improve control and management of ME's staff            I   (a) Prior to Jun  80, 1989, complete census of MEN steff.
eto e lminate current wast.
(b) Prior to December 81, 1969, update pereonnel records,
*liminate  ncorrect pyamnte of salaries and Ind  ntles              I
I      *c) and establish a reliablo updating machani_m.
(c) Trrln central and regional staff In pereonnel
managmnt procedures (one sminar per year during
project Implementation).
S. Reduce (a) the share of foreign tsechbers to                  (a) Reduction in foreign teaching staff:
secondary and higher educatlon, and (b) the                     (I) establish plans and target dates for reductlon In                I
number of non-teaching staff In secondary                       foreign staff recruited on local contracts and for redi-
education.                                                      rection of technical assistance towards anr    where national               I
skill shortages hav  been deonstrated. The plan would be            I       n
discussed with IDA during the 1989 review meeting; and              I
I       (II) amonitor limplemention of the above plon in accordance
with agroed upon target dates.
I  (b) Reduction in non-teAching staff:  Prior to Sept.  0, 199,            1
(1) reduce from 87 to 59 the number of non-teaching staff
I       In technical education; and
(11) develop, discuss with IDA, and Implement measureo for
I      reducing non-teaching staff In geeral secondary education. 
9. Increas  the Interal efficiency at all                       (a) Provision of pedagogical materials: 
levels of education.                                             (i) provision of about 859,eeo primry school textbooks to           I
be monitored according to the production schedule glivn In
I  I   Table 2 of Annex 8-3;                                                1
I  I    (It) provision of about 120,000 scince textbooks for
general secondary educatlon to be monitored according to
the production schedule given in Table 8 of Annex 8-3;
(III) provision of 8,008 textbooks for the ISS by
I |    December 81, 1969;                                                   I
I |     (tv) provision of pedagogical equipDent for sclne teaching         I
T  I    In secondary and higher ducatlon, and for vocational and
technical education, to be monitored In accordance with time-       I
tables given In, respectively, Annexes 0-7, 3-8, a-9                I
and 8-10;                                                                 r 
(v) prior to Doc. 81, 12, conduct an evaluation of the                      z
textbook progrx wIth r gprd to off cts on (a) availability o 
of textbooks in schools, and (b) learning outcomes; and             I
(vt) prior to June Up 1092, conduct an *valuation of                I
pilot laboratories provided under the project, snd discuss          I    0 
and agree with IDA on follow-up actions.
I _____________________---_ -------------------                                       -------------__________----



| MEASURES AGREED UPON                                                                    REVIEW CRITERIA                                I
|                                                            |  (b) Improving the quality of th- teching force                           I
I                                                            I       (;) the provision of In-service training for all primary
l                                                            l       eshool teachers (about 8,616) at a rate of about 66  per yer
during project duration;
(;) establishment of a new teaeher training collg   n               l
I l    Aloun by the start of school year 1990/91;
(iii) provision of In-service training for all seondary             I
I                                                            I      education science teachers (about 220) (to be completed by           I
I                                                            I      the start of school year 199t/91);                                   1
(iv) prior to June 30, 1989. discussion with IDA on targts 
I  I   for training technical secondary school teachers at the CSET.        I
te) Reduction In the nutmbr of closse  with too few or too mny
I      pupils:                                                              1
I      (i) by June 30, 1998, establish a school map;                        I
(ii) conduct the experiment with double-shift teaching              1
according to the schedule given in pare. 12 of Annex  -5;           1
(lit) by Sept. so, 1991, disusos with IDA plans for
the reduction in over- and under-sized classes through a
combination of nw clasroom construction. especially In
single-classroom schools, and introduction of multi-grade
and double-shift teaching.
ll. Introduce -m Incentives to encour  the                   l  (a) By September 3a, 1996, measures designd to promote private           I 
i   delopment of private education.                                  edctAtion would be developed by the Governet di scuse                 
11. Increase privatetsectorrcontribotione ~                         with IDA, and introde. 
Il  tnostef pfivanci    tof poi ednribution  to                 (a) By March 81, 1969, establish the revolving fund for textbookh        5
to the financing of publice ducation.                           pommel. 
5   (b) By June a0, 1969, discuss end agree with IDA on proposals
for **lf-financing of the student boarding and restaurnt
facilities at the ISS and Introduce measurvia In this regrd
s           soon uch *factilities haveop nod 
I  tc) By March S1, 1969, establish a National Advisory Council
l  l   for Vocational and Technical Education (d. pars. 8 of
Annex 3-9);                                                          l
j;   (d) By Spte_r J8  1989 estabisoh a *system for :nitorlng
|  output from tchnic l/ pat rivon tl educton icn rolbtion to
|    lAbor                             spoe t  esnd, a
!  I( ) By iun U   199 dtcm    nd "pa red   with IDA on  anud           I
bInn1                                                        I       disug    t  Involv  tploy r  In fInoncin port o  tecnical
l                                          l       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~choolo* operating cot  (cf. per&. 18 of Anx    91
1                                           5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(f) by June Jt, 1989, sn re with IDA on measure  f or financing5
I  by the Borr"or -- Including private seCtor contributions --          
cm Ios tot l operating cost wh_ IDA'   c upport. ends  sod0 
begin I tpl_otingl t_"  measures by Sepebr SO  1989 .X 
|                                           | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(9) By S pt_br a0# 1990  pr p ro discuss wittJ IDA  andI
5                                          1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~introduco comttunity-bo ed echool mint nance procedures    0 o 
b:ann3-l .wkl



- 54 -
AJIWEXE 3-2
Page 1 sur 16
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DU SECTEUR DE LEDUCATION
Programme de Construction et d'Entretien des Ecoles Primaires
A. Diagnostic du contexte actuel
1.        Situation du reseau scolaire.  La Mauritanie, dot4e d'un des
taux de scolarisation primaire lee plus faibles d'Afrique (532), vient
d'enregistrer au cours des dix dernieres annees un accroissement accEldrd
du nombre de salles de classes, qui est passe de 927 en 1975 a 2.740 en
1987, atteignant une croissance de 175 salles de classes par annde, dont
une proportion croissante (environ 42Z en 1986 et 472 en 1987) est
rdalis4e par les communautes. La Mauritanie qui compte 2.740 salles de
classes en 1987 possede un reseau scolaire pour Ilenseignement fondamental
dont la caract4ristique est 1'existence de fortes disparites; en effet,
(i) si la moyenne d'ellves par classe a atteint 55 en 1987, on enregistre
cependant des ratios allant de moins de 20 a plus de 100 4lves par
classe; (ii) le pourcentage d'Xcoles & classe unique avec recrutement
tous les six ans se situe autour de 52Z pour l'ensemble du pays (voir
tableau no. 1 ci-dessous); (iii) les salles de classes realisees
entierement par l'Etat sur sources de financement ext4rieur selon les
techniques du secteur moderne sont fonctionnelles mais chares (1.250.000
UM soit 17.000 dollars par classe ou 25.000 UM soit 342 dollars par mitre
carri); (iv) tandis que celles construites par les communaut6s selon des
normes locales se caracterisent par un manque de qualit4 (fonctionnalitd
et durabilitd) et par une implantation mal 4tudi4e par rapport a la
demande scolarisable; (v) & l'exception des locaux qui ont dt# equipes en
mobilier scolaire par l'Etat, un echantillon du patrimoine a r6v6l6 un
deficit de 63Z pour lee tetles-bancs. de 50t pour les tables de maltres et
de 662 pour les moyens de stockage de mat6riel didactique; et (vi) dans
tous lee cas, cette situation est aggravEe par un manque d'entretien des
installations et des equipements scolaires. Sur la base de l'annuaire
statistique de l'annEe 1986-87 et d'une enquete aupres des directeurs
d'dcoles mende par la Direction de la Planification et malgr4 l'absence
d'une carte scolaire prdcis4e, il a 4t6 possible de dresser l'inventaire
du patrimoine (voir le tableau No. 2 ci-dessous).
Tableau 1: Evolution des ratios nombre de classes/ecoles
ANNEES
STRUCTURE DES ECOLES    77/78   80/81   82/83   84/85   86/87
1 CLASSE                  255      267     314     408      497
2 CLASSES                   77     109     116     134      165
3 CLASSES                  26      43       56      56       60
4 CLASSES                  21      23       21      26       32
5 CLASSES                  17      18       20      14      23
6 CLASSES                  18      50       63      69       74
7 CLASSES                  30      24       20      21       26
>7 CLASSES                 40      45       60      57       68
______________________________-____________________________
TOTAL                     464      579     672     785      945



- 55 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 2 sur 16
Tableau 2:  Inventaire du Patrimoine
AAITAwIE.1OJeT DE  s r nXTAAT8O  DU sBCT3   IXAT!MIAG=TIC h4%A5MUtTLEB _     n    _      o             AI    AL I
BSE AW6KE  SCATZSTIS,   1911-1187
C*E1rCTE ACTtlL
NO_E  NWM          PM     RATIO   WICrr       I        I       8       U       S        5    RATIO  2M          N       RATIO
CAITALM       NXW       8BEL     E8=        CAI L ES  .ELV   tY RIQ. SALUSALLE  SALLE   AIIS  SALLM  SAL1.  CLAS    C RTO  KArT                 ELEV
R    Bw                 SCOUR- EllST. EXIST    ALLES CLASSES  Of MA          SI   SAM    PVtIS CfCOMM          NON    EL   PDAOC                  AITRE
-IES                               (1)                                  COIt UTILIS
KMUITAJIE                130.463      94    2,740      as       48     338      B0      358      25     438      Ss       3    2.5,1   3,010         S0
N631A       MM  OYGZ  11,242          11i     232      48      (24)    163      218      6n      1i      Ws       48        2      223      24
AOUJ       H4 044fl1  10.080         10S     200      S0      (1      383       138     529     1i      64       to       2       198      216       47
KIFFA       ASSAM         10,721       95     199      54       (0)   29         168 S    33      23     8s       3S        2      194      223       4
KADZ        WOOL          14.231      10S     249      57       1s     293       13      Ss       SS     57s      42        2      232      272       s2
ALM         BRA"          18,86       108     2"       so        9     388      2"       32S      1S     6S      14S        a      2s7      309       54
Rosso       TRARA         20,792      179     448      4       (63)   395       448      11S      43     5s       63               410      456       48
ATMR        AIR .981                   36     126      47      (16)    33S      325      348      1      26       5s        3      120      132       48
Hr.IAADKIOU UMI.T MG    6.309          14     100      63       17    623       268      123      0s     148      7s        7       93      102       62
TDJIDJ      TAT            5.16        52     137      38      (41)   233       302      443     4*      S1       33       3       131      164       34
88.1*81    SSjUWAA         5.816       70     198      44      (37)    178      228      5u       78     77       68       3       169      224       38
W.AATE    T1IS 1      IIU   4,812      1o      so      60        9       3s     768      19S     o0       38     1ss 3          d 8          ss       57
KMSUJ       D041R1         1,692        9      52     3a       (17)    5s        17S    33s       oS    1i8       43        6       so      s5        33
NiJMO1T   1OSTICT WrT  54,162         45     424      9l      209     51       488       08      1S     in       es        9      423      s3        64
--   _- - -   - -- ----_ -- ----_- - --- --- ---_---  --_---   --_- ---     -- ----   -- ---_--- --- --- --- ---- --   --- ---_--- --- ---- --- --- ---
TOTAL                    150,488      94    2.740      U        4      338      308      36s      25     43S      6S        3    2.8s6   3.010        48
(1,): on *onont l'lpotl~m do 54 Slaves pop Salle de clse".
01-Apr-6
PRO*!T
N        NOQR       NOIE    N_E   TOTAL COEFF.           COUT
CAPITALES RtECIONS        SALcE   SALL         SAAEL   SALLES INV. 8.010              UN
REIONALES               A R8FL. A R84A8.    A R 1W. NELN    SALLE          3        N000
(o)      (b)        (c)     (d)                         72
NA.RITAINTE                    S        50          5     240     300            195.725
N63A       &"  C04514          0         6          0      so0    s6   1.40       42.409
Al0"       t411  C0ARBI        0         0          0      SO      30   1.38      23.409
KIPFA      ASSA8A              8         6    *            40      86   1.23      37.665
KAEDI r    OOOL                0         6          0      20      26   1.20      15.542
ALEC       BRAHA               0         6(1)       0      24      30   1.15      17.554
RO0        TRtAZA              0        13 (2)      0      24      37   1.10      16,577
ATAR       AWt                 0         6          0       0       6   1.23       1,740
NUADHMOU tXMeLT ND8            0         0          0       6       6   1.30       4,50S
TMOJD(JA   TAAT                0         7          0      10      17   1.40      10,8
SELrlA6V   oJrDDrA             0         0          0      10      10   1.30       7.514
ZOUERATE   TIRIS ZEMIUA        0         0          0       6       6   1.35      4,612
AKJOWUT    NX1CORI             0        0           0       0       0   1.20          0
NOUAKOI  DIST01r8 T NC T       0         0          0      20      20   1.00      11,560
TOTAL                          S       50           a     240     3O0            193.725
(1) 6 cleass"m Bosh*                                                         62.71n.40s
(2) dont 7 clas.. a *outilimit
(a): rorep _comnt de Structuroe  preov;oi r-e (pa.tlett"o) juatifi... -ea  la ded0 oolmir,.
(b): structure pe,mnent. durobl  correspondent su, nor_a min* mle. acceptse  den. Is Days done la contest.
dce rommurec- Ot du d"eso0l11Mnt; Go etrusctue proriegir qui sores un invoOtiseedet on reparation pemettrmit
do ruwner Is batimnt a un nive.u de norm. acceptable qu; lua  pomettra d'etro utlij-e pendant *u  oine di one.
():  tructure dito Pormnnte non semliorable pour un cout n'o*ced&nt pas is  itio d'un. cootruction nova.
(d). pour permttre do a-tio;d;r. la demands ecolaire.
01-Apr-66



- 56 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 3 sur 16
2.        Cadre institutionnel existent.  Au niveou central, 10 Service de
la Planification et des Constructions Scolaires (SPC) qui relive de la
Direction de la Planification et de la Coop6ration (DPC) du Ninistire de
lEducation National. (MEN). implique une restructuration fondamentale
pour pr6tondre atteindre ses objectife. Au niveau regional. les
Directions R6gionales de l'Enseignamnt Fondamental (DREF) pourraient, en
6troite relation avec los autorit6a rdgionales qui disposent des crddits
pour chaque secteur (noteammnt pour l'entrotion des 6coles), jouer un r8le
de charnire pour l'amflioration do lassistance auz comuunaut6s en
mat6re du patrisoin. et de son entretiens ceci no serait possible qu'& la
condition quo ls DRIF soient dynamisdos et quo lburn personnels recoivent
la formation ndcessaire pour uleux concentrer leurs actions vers les
dcoles. Au n1veau des collectivit6e et des dcoles, soules lea
Associations de Parents d'Eleves (APE) et les Communes interviennent dans
le domaine des constructionq scolaires do l'enseognement fondamental mais
rarement pour leur entretien; en 1986 et on 1987, 1002 des 214 nouvelles
salles de classes ont dtC construites par les collectivit6s locales, par
contre, un degr& tris inegal de responsabilitd en matiure de conservation
du patrimoine a dt# releve chez les responsables regionaux et les
directeurs d'dcole (voir tableau no. 3 ci-dessous).
Tableau 3S  RCoartition des locaux-clases realies par l'Etat
et les collectivites
AES
,_______________._
1985-86    1986-87    ACCROISSEMENT
-ETAT              1.434       1.394         -  40
-COLLECTIVITES     1.074       1.288        + 214
-LOCATION             57          58        +   1
2.565      2.740         + 175
3.        Analyse dconomiaue.  La prise en charge de la construction des
salles de classes par les comunautes est un element tres positif car,
d'une part cola d#charge l'Etat de cotte depense alors que la contrainte
budgetaire est treo forte et d'autre part, la construction par les
communautds est un signe qu'il exist. une demande effective de
scolarisation. Cette situation no presente toutefois pas que des aspects
positifs; deux points meritent d'etre soulign6st (i) l'utilisation de
mformules locales' en ce qui concerne les mat&riaux et les modiles
presentes des avantages, car l'utilisation de materiauu et de savoir faire
locaux facilitent la construction des classes et de leur entretien,
cependant cette initiative locale no peut correspondre qu'imparfaitement a
ce qui est fonctionnel, rentable et souhaitable pour une salle de classe
(notament en matibre d'amortissement de linvestissement aur une durne de
vie de 25 ans); et (ii) les modes traditionnels de construction
coanaissent des limites techniques, avec on particulier des difficultes de
realiser des bAtiments de taille suffisaont grande; slil n'y a pas de
difficultes de construire des salles de classes capables daccueillir 20 a
30 dl1ves, co n'est toutefois pas souvent le cas lorsqu'on envisage den
recevoir S0 ou plus; on observe alors que les classes spontandment
construites par les counautes sont de taille trop rdduite avec
l'lnpossibilite denseigner & un nombre d'onfants qui serait
dconomiquement souhaitable (on matiure de depenses recurrentes) et



- 57 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 4sur 16
pedagogiquement acceptable. Compte tenu du coat tres 6lev4 des
constructions realisees par l'Etat selon lee techniques du eecteur moderne
(1.250.000 UM/classe), il apparalt alors souhaitable d'envisager de mettre
en place une formule qui permettrait & la fois de s'appuyer sur les
initiatives et les compdtences locales et de r6aliser lea constructions
lee mieux adaptees economiquement et pedagogiquement.
B. Stratdaie propos4e pour le projet
4.        Tenant compte du diagnostic precedent et de l'un des objectifs
principaux du projet qui consiste a creer les conditions propices a une
augmentation durable du taux de scolarisation et & ameliorer la qualite et
la pertinence de 1Venseignement fondamental, le projet se propose
d'intervenir sur deux plans: (a) le developpement de la capacite
d'accueil de l'enseigneiaent fondamental elargie et rationalisee; et (b) le
renforcement des structures administratives regionales.
5.        Afin d'augmenter la capacite d'accueil des infrastructures
scolaires, le projet prevoit la strategie suivante:
-    la realisation en plusieurs phases d'etudes de carte scolaire qui
doivent cerner la taille et la localisation des interventions de
construction/rehabilitation ou suppression de classes & effectifs
trop reduits;
-    la suppression des classes dont lea effec* ifs sont inferieurs au
seuil de 35 eleves;
-    l'introduction d'un systeme de double vacation des locaux ayant des
effectifs superieurs a 70 eleves par classe;
-    le recrutement tous les deux ou trois ans au lieu de tous les six ans
dans lea ecoles a classe unique;
-    la sauvegarde des investissements dej3  rdalises, sauf pour les ecoles
de faible frequentation par la mise en place de programmes de
rehabilitation et d'entretien;
-    la stimulation de l'apport des collectivites en accompagnant leurs
actions engagees en matiere de constructions scolaires par des
actions complementaires; toutefois le projet n'interviendra seulement
lorsqu'un engagement de contrepartie de la part des communes sera
assure; et
-    la reduction des besoins de remplacement et des coots d'amortissement
des installations scolaires, en developpant des techniques de
construction et d'entretien appropriees.
6.        Afin de renforcer le cadre institutionnel dont depend la mise en
oeuvre de cette st-ategie, le projet prevoit le renforcement des
structures administratives suivantes:
-    au niveau central par la restructuration du Service de Planification
et des Constructions (SPC) charge egalement des travaux de carte
nnl 4r * t



- 58 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 5 sur 16
sa decentralisation au niveau regional par la crEation d'une cellule
mobile chargee de dEvelopper une capacitd technique au sein des
Directions Regionales de VEnseignement Fondamental (DREF).
7.        Le Service de Planification et des Constructions (SPC)
concentrera ses moyens sur les taches suivantes:
(a) Dana le cadre de sa mission globale:
-    la mise a jour de la carte scolaire;
-    l'identification des programmes pluriannuels en conformite avec lea
objectifs prioritaires de la strategie pour le secteur, adoptee par
le Gouvernement;
-    l'elaboration des propositions budgetaires en matibre
d'infrastructures scolaires;
la coordination et la supervision des activites en matibre
d'installations scolaires;
l'animation visant a accentuer la participation des collectivites et
des communautes locales;
(b) Dans le cadre des normes et standards:
-    la definition de modbles types de classes et de locaux A faible coat
de construction et d'entretien;
-    la definition et la diffusion des normes et standards pour differents
types de constructions scolaires;
-    le recensement des techniques et des materiaux utilises, notamment
dans l'architecture traditionnelle;
-    la realisation et la tenue A jour d'un bordereau gEnEral des prix
composes et de prix decomposes par corps d'etat;
-    l'elaboration et la diffusion de guides de la construction et de
l'entretien des installations scolaires;
-    la preparation et la mise en oeuvre de programmes de formation,
d'information et de sensibilisation dans le domaine des installations
et des equipements scolaires, au niveau central et regional;
(c) Dans le cadre de la programmation/preparation/contr8le des
oDerations:
-    le recensement du patrimoine et de son etat;
-    la programmation des travaux et acquisitions lies a la construction
et A l'entretien des installations scolaires;
-    la mise au point des dispositions techniques administratives et
financiares (preparation et/ou suivi des appels d'offres et des



- 59 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 6 sur 16
passations de marches selon lee dispositions legales en vigueur en
Mauritanie);
-    la gestion et la supervision des contrats;
(d) Dans le cadre de la decentralisation des activites du SPC, la cellule
mobile, chargee de dEvelopper les capacites r4gionales des DREF sera
chargee d'accomplir les missions suivantes:
-    aider a l'organisation des collectivites et communautds locales en
vue de leur mobilisation pour les activitos de construction et
d'entretien des installations scolaires, & travers l'information, la
sensibilisation et la formation;
-    recueillir et transmettre au SPC toutes les informations relatives au
patrimoine foncier, mobilier et immobilier du secteur education et de
son etat;
-    aider la section statistique/planification des DREFs a preparer les
budgets arnuels des collectivites et des regions pour les travaux
neufs et les travaux d'entretien finances aussi bien par
l'Adminis:-ration que par les collectivites locales;
-    organiser les chantiers pilotes et notagmment la formation des
artisans regionaux et entreprises specialisees;
-    participer a la preparation des appels d'offres et aux passations de
marches au niveau regional;
-    superviser lVexdcution des marches; et
-    assister les collectivites durant l'execution des travaux de
construction et d'entretien des installations scolaires.
8.        Afin de reduire la participation financiere qui incombe A l'Etat
le projet prevoit:
-    la reduction des besoins de remplacement des ecoles et la reduction
des coats d'amortissement annuel par eleve, en favorisant le
developpement de techniques de construction a faibles coats initiaux
et faibles coiLts d'entretien; ces techniques, essentiellement
fondees sur l'architecture traditionnelle, impliqueront un fort
coefficient de main-d'oeuvre locale et, dans la mesure du possible,
l'emploi de matEriaux locaux. Cette strategie a egalement pour effet
de limiter les apports en devises et la distorsion entre
l'accroissement des ressources du monde rural et la hausse des prix
des matEriaux importes; et
-    le transfert officiel des responsabilites en matiere de construction
et d'entretien aux regions et collectivites et communautes,
accompagne d'un transfert legal de propriete des etablissements
d'enseignement et des mesures necessaires pour assurer l'efficacite
du systeme d'entretien.
9.        Choix technologigue.  Dans le cadre d'une etude de faisabilite
sur le developpement de constructions economiques financees par le FADES,



- 60 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 7sur 16
le Bureau Regional de l'UNESCO pour lEducation en Afrique (BREDA) realise
actuellement en collaboration avec le Ministbre de l'Education Nationale
de Mauritanie une etude sur lee possibilites de constructions scolaires
utilisant une structure de toiture en forme de voUtes realisdes en plAtre
(desormais produit localement a partir des ressources importantes de la
Mauritanie en gypse). Un chartier pilote a Et4 ouvert pour tester le
prototype preconisd; l10valuation de ce prototype qui devrait intervenir
avant la date prevue pour les nEgociations du credit IDA devrait permettre
d'apprEcier l'opportunite d'Etendre cette technique dans une des regions
du projet ou a un nombre limite de realisations. Pour les regions oiL cette
technologie ne serait pas utilisable, des solutions alternatives simples
et economiques sont a l'etude et doivent conduire a realiser des
prototypes; ces prototypes seront derives des techniques couramment
utilisees par les collectivites et des ameliorations y seront apportees
afin de reduire les coCts d'amortissement. Ces technologies ont
l'avantage de repartir nettement les responsabilites de financement et de
mise en oeuvre des travaux entre l'Etat et les collectivites; les
estimations des apports des deux intervenants ont d0montre que le projet
serait realisable sur la base de fonds de contribution (a savoir 5O2 de
participation de l'Etat au coat total); cette formule aurait pour effet
l'incitation des collectivites a poursuivre leurs efforts de construction
ud'coles tout en sauvegardant la qualite de l'investissement realise.  La
repartition des coats de la construction d'une Ecole prototype est resumEe
sur le tableau No. 5 ci-dessous.
C.   Justification economigue
10.       Selon la strategie developpee ci-dessug, le coUt pour l'Etat
d'une salle de classe, dans l'hypothese ou ce dernier n'interviendrait
qu'a hauteur de 5O du coUt total, serait relativement reduit, de l'ordre
de 300.000 UM soit environ 4.000 dollars pour une classe capable
d'accueillir plus de 54 eleves. Si on compte une durEe de vie de 25 ans,
on obtient un coat annuel d'amortissement des installations (y compris les
equipements et les depenses d'entretien) de 46.000 UM soit 643 dollars par
salle de classe.
11        Le coat annuel d'amortissement par el&ve est neanmoins
relativcement eleve (792 UM soit 11 dollars par eleve pour une classe de 58
elaves) comparE au coat unitaire moyen par eleve qui est de 7.724 UM. Il
en resulte que, lorsque le nombre d'elaves potentiellement scolarisable
n'est pas suffisant, la construction des salles de classe n'est pas
Economiquement justifieo, en particulier sail n'existe que 20 a 35 eleves
a scolariser localement (compte tenu de la faible densite de population).
12.       Par contre dans les situations oil il existe un nombre plus
important d'enfants a scolAriser et oft lea communautes sont disposees a
construire, il y a alors des raisons de slinterroger aur la pertinence a
construire une salle de clesse ou & en remplacer une construite par lee
communautes. En effet, si on fixe & 35 eleves le seuil permettant la
justification d'une salle de classe, on observe que la construction d'une,
salle de classe de grande dimension est justifiEe. Le tableau no. 4
ci-dessous donne la comparaison des coats unitaires annuels (en tenant
compte du coat de construction pour l'Etat) et montre clairement que si
l'on soe trouve dans le cas d'effectifs suffisants (au-del& de 35 eleves),
le type de construction propose pour le projet se trouve economiquement
justifie.



-61 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 8 sur 16
Tableau 4: Comparaison des coats unitaires en UH
_________----------------------__.-__-_--------------------
Nombre d'eleves s      s
& scolariser    s   35:    40:    45:    50s    55:    60s
coat unitaire   :             s          :      :
avec constr.    :      :      :      :      :
traditionnelles :111.00:19.500:17.300:15.000:14.200:13.000:
------------------------------__-_---------------------_---
colt unitaire   s        s       :
avec constr.               :         :      :       :
type PROJET     :12.800:11.300:l0.000: 9.000: 8.200: 7.500:
13.       Une question de premiere importance est alors de savoir quelle
eat la fr4quence de cette situation dans le contexte scolaire mauritanien.
Des etudes de carte scolaire plus fines permettront d'Etablir des
programmes annuels qui localiseront les interventions justifi6es selon les
criteres Enonces ci-dessus.
14.       Les coUts d'amortissement annuel et par 4lOve pour les
differents types de construction permet de v4rifier que ces coats sont
comparables A ceux obtenus dans d'autres pays d'Afrique de l'Ouest A
l'occasion de projets finances par VIDA (voir le tableau no. 5
ci-dessous).
D. Movens et m6thodologie de mise en oeuvre
15.       Construction a faible coat de 250 salles de classe du primaire.
Le projet assistera les collectivit6s et les communautes dans la
realisation de 244 nouvelles salles de classe et le remplacement de six
abris provisoires (maximum 250 reparties dans les zones du projet a raison
de 50 salles de classes par annee pendant cinq ans); au plus tard le 30
juin precddant le lancement des travaux, le programme des 12 mois & venir
sera discute et approuv4 en tenant compte des criteres enonces au chapitre
B. La participatio- de l'Etat, financee a 1002 sur le crEdit IDA.
n'linterviendra seulement lA oa un engagement de contre-partie aura EtC
obtenu et comprendra l'appui technique, la formation (guides de la
construction, seminaires), la fourniture de la superstructure, le mobilier
et le matEriel pEdagogique. Parallelement, une formation d'artisans,
futurs chefs de chantier communaux, sera assuree A l'occasion de la
realisation des chantiers pilotes qui seront ouverts au fur et a mesure
dans les regions d'intervention (au total six chantiers-pilotes de au
moins deux salles de classe pendant cinq ans). Les salles de classe qui
auront une superficie utile de 52 m2 sont estimees a environ 600.000 UH
equivalent a 8.300 dollars; la contribution de 1'Etat en matlere de gEnie
civil, financee a 100 Z par le crEdit, correspond au coat de la
superstructure de la menuiserie et du transport et ne depassera pas
300.000 UH equivalent A 4.150 dollars par salle de classe (voir les
tableaux no. 6 et 7 ci-dessous qui donnent les details des costs
unitaires).
16.       Remise en Etat de 50 salles de classe du vrimaire.  Afin de
sauvegarder les investissements dEjA rEalises, le projet prevoit la remise
en Etat de 50 salles de classe existantes dans les localitEs ou le projet



MIMUC WUEC  Of MALRITAtIA/31P11LIUa ISLAIIJ   DE 0 kARITAIZE                                                                                                                           TAW   u  a
U54A9y eV CoIum /  _8E PA  PAYS                                                                               '-'                                                                              96 S
CmWiARIs    OF  4WMTEMT COSTS FAR PRiIRT SOlOOL CONSTRUCTION M   EWT04                                                             A. TE9RARY SHLTER AS COMSTTED BY LOUL. CoHJlTY
--_-_------------------------------------ ___-----__----_---------------------                                                     D. SES-AILE  UILOIMS AS COMSTIET   eV iaL  cOKm
COWAPARAlSG O   COlTS D'0NVSTISS5OT PWR LA CSTRCTIOi Et L'EWIPU@EW DES 88 PE1RiAIR                                                 C. L6A.LE    LW2OS AS COiXCT            N  TilE 5
WLTATIMi:    Os
______________  _____ ________________   ______________________   ______                                                     COST5 111 C iJTS iS PER6 03 5511847 PUCE
F.E.   F.E.                  LC            LC         IF *                                                                   ---------------- -----------------       -----------   -------
YER   P.,DC . P.DC                 P. DC         P. DC          CFAF                                                          cmv DNE5964  COST                        66.T ATIA
I    tWIL                  s         C WKL                                                                                 -  ---     --- -- - - - -- - - - -  --- __--__-__ __-__ ____ _-_--_-_-____ _--___-______ __ -_
_____   ----------------         --------      --------        ------                                                                      A        6      C      0         A        B      C      0
6o     11.91   66.8a              14.13        112.21          211                                                          --_------_________________________   ------------------------------
1       9.9"   44.411             19.73         9.11           272 mNL                                                                   14       as    598    175       14       1o    St    11
12      7.41  3453                12.5          76.43          829                                                          C.A.R.       14      S1    476    116        16       15    29      11
as      5.03   27.11              16.5          65.91          So1                                                         O6DIA .(              02    549   205         19       15    86      12
84     41.ES  21                  20.1E         47.41          487                                                          I r*AMI   29          93    86     16        g9       20    21    11
86      4.25  17.381              10.1          26.91%         44                                                           040          7        51    488   1S"         7       12    at       8
as      7.65   18.1               10.9          16.93          a7
67      5.3    5.63                6.06          6.03          $14
as              0.93                             0.01          276
69              0.93                             0.03
91              0.03                             0.911
C    1T COSTS IN 'CO0 LOCAL COCY                        CieT  COSTS  15 is 
CLAS   OM4PACRISTICS             DATA  (at d.  @  ioferti1W) DSTM    COSTS                                    3AW 1    A3 AA. L A. TI7ATrom     I951T34  COSTS          FAIT   569AL 6 ITIZATIDI
clam  pI"es    rcc        a,"       yon, @@*I    CS. 1   quilt.  F.E. E  if.  wi. tir      61  to461  80463    Min'  r`.  out.            $L   tout 6011.1              _;d,3  i .     s.mt. Sao,%.
COUNTR          SY."4  ICI~ /Cl          /0PIKS     Atalocu'. ft 1  /cl_    LC   I*i_M  /Yoe,   el    /0.1*   /62    iJ-cr  /.1ce  /,I",    / 2   /el. /,1    /dR   /,._r   /clam /Ple    /at
CUi. . .*. .    d.. ..................  . ...  . e . .   .4... .    e..ve..r   .  @. ...........I.d .     .....L.4   .                           .....                      I       ..... .mn. . . . . ./43  ...I' .. . la. .I....... .4   . d....   . a. ..  /.3.I.n. .e.....(.l.c. .4 .
ua14      *2       *2     jewr eCull    r.    Culp    I   yeu             1    curt.  crC. cS.. eru. er          rer.  c.r,  cull          8       *               6        S      8      a
88573641        A          SO      65     1.00        86  CFAF     110     138  0.09       I    0.0      246      4      4        0      246       4      4       on2    14    14          0      *92     14    14
8          so  60         1.00        86  CFAF   1. 120    240  46.05      a     2.08   1,478     25    25        29      276       a      6    6.298      88     a       13       9O9     16     1
C          64      Go     1.17        55 CFAF   7.500      614  56.U0     25     2.58   8, 90    16S   141       22S      67       11      9  S2,016    5C3    508        NO   2,061       S9     as
0          U       U      1.00       86  CFAF  2.100    5SW  26.09        26     2.95   2,732     49    49        a6      164       a           9.S24    175    175       197      6C0     11    11
C.A. I          A          66      66     1.00        87 CFAF      120     120  009        1    0.93      260      4      4        0      278        4      4      69      14    14         0      999     18     16
6          63      68     1.00        87 CFAF   1,100      280  40.03      6    2.90   1,411      22    22        25      265       4      4    5,076     61    81        102      947     16    15
C         64        6     1.22        87 CFAF   6.600      40O50. 0       26     2.019 7,176    183   1M         144      431       6      7  25,611    478    391        514    1.69      20     23
D         54       64     1.19        67 CFAF  2. 10       434 36.0      25     2.51  2,63S      49     41       66      171       3      3    *.477    176    148       237      615     11    10
8U8tDtA         A          70      70     1.00        84  ClAF     220     10  0. 09       1    0.03      S70      5      S        0      370        5      a    1.31     19    19         0    1.331     11    19
a          70      70     1.00        84 CFAF   1,200    250  48.03        6     2 03   1,604    2S    2S         32      29        4      4    5.769     82      82      116    1,077     16    16
C          64      60     1.46        84 CFAF  6,800    640  560          25     2.63   8,248    158   103       206      5S       10      7   28.670    549    871       742    1,929    38      24
0          64      69     1.0        84 CFAF  2,275       486  46.08     25     2. O   3,042     66     62       61     18        5      3   10.941    203   15        219     a66      12    11                 1  >
1URITAMIA       A          66      63     1.09        87  CFAF    360      120  0 03       I    003       470      a      7        0      470       6       7    1.692     29     27        0    1.692     20    27                C1 2
8          68     63      1.04       57 CFAF   1.299       165 46 0        5    2 9   1,501       26     24       S0      S90       C      6    6.36      93     66       105    1.1U      20     19                ; Z
C          66      68     1 04        67  CFAF  5,164      36   65.03  2S        2 03   5.717     99    91       114      543       6      A  20.564    36S   32S         411    1.234     21    20                (D  M
0          Be      62    0 90         87  CFAF   2,486    a87  52 05      25     2.09   2,9S7     61    57         9      177       3      S   10.636    18      25       213     GM       11    12
CHAD            A          60      60    0 83         87 CAF       120       00 00         1    0 OS      120      2      2        0       120       2      2      412      7      0        0      A32      7      9                C
8          C0      s0    0 as         87 CFAF      S0      120 25 03       5    2.03      923     16    19        19      206       3      4   3.3S6       6      67       67      723     12    15
C          60     7O      1.          67  ClAF   7.000     350  52.03     is     2.03   7,564    126   109       151     655       11      9   27,209    453   369        S4     2.358     S9     54 3 
0          60      68     1 IS        87 CFAF   2,200      350  40 08     25     2 9     2607     43    38        62      15$       3      2     9378    1C    138        ia       565      9 a 



- 63 -                                 ANNEXE 3-2
Page 10 sur 16
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA/REPUBLIqUE ISLAMIquJ DE MAURITANIE          TABLE No 6
DETAILED COSTS OF SCHOOL PROTOTYPE CONSTRUCTION IN NOUAKCHOTT              TABLEAU No 6
ANALYSE COUTS CONSTRUCTION DE L'ECOLE PROTOTYPE DE NOUAKCHOTT
COSTS IN UM./COUTS EN UM.
ITEMS/                         X I      IDA    I       DAI   APE    APE    APE I   TOT    TOT    TOTI
ELEMENTS               I      FE         FE    LC    TOT I      FE      LC    TOT I      FE     LC    TOT
 --------l          -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - --- - -- - -- --- --  ---  -   - - --  - - - -I
orR                      I                             I                       I                        I
_______________I                                     I                       I                       I 
poutre lis courantos    I     eox1   4,618  8,676  7,689 I          o            0 1 4,618  8,976  7,6e8
poutrelle-  latorals          s e6x    8,691 2,461  6,152 I      o       0       o 1 8,691  2,461  6,162 I
voutes mortitr platre         1OXI   2,618 28,788 26,875         a o             9 o   2,688  28,788 26,876 I
etancheit.                    991   58c,739 5,970 59,790          o      o       o  58,780  5,970 69,700
l-per. *t durciusem.nt j      9oxl   1,609   299  2,W0 I            o    o         I 1,609    200  2,W0
I-- - -- - -- - -- -     - I--- -- - -- - -- - -- - -I- -- -
Sub-Total/Sous Total    I     ssl  66,472 85,444 191,916 I              0 o     o  66,472 85,444 101,916 I
_- - - - ------------ I---------- - ------------ I--------- - - - - - -  I
SOUS TOITURE           II                                                          I                       I
_ _   __   _  ________I   I  I                   I                        I
terrasa.ment           I       931        o     o       0 I      a 89,w0o  80,900          ao 89,    89,09 I
fondationa             I      4XI        9     a       0 1 28,000 42,090 7,909O I 28,000 42,90   70,999 1
-econnori.             I      4931      822   488    805 I 61,852 92,028 153,880 1 61,674  92,611 154,185 1
aol                    I      493w        9 o      o    o   18,720 26,080 41,800  16,720 26,080 41,809
monuiserio             I      6931   72,909 48,0  120,900 1      o       o       o I 72,999 48,099 120,W09
bodigeon/p.lnture      I      7931   26,999 12,0W  40,000 I      o       a       o I 28,000 12,090  49,09
I- -              -------I------------     ----I-------       ------I
Sub-Total/Sous Total          46X5  100,822 60,488 160,695 1196,072 189,108 295,180 1206,894 249,691 4s5,986 I
I- ~~~~             I- -------    -- ----I----- 
TRANSPORT/TRANSPORT    I-8X   16,999 4,W9  20,9000               0       0 9     0   16,009  4,000 20,09   I
I------.--.I -----------.-.----I ------ --------I--------   -
SUPERVISION/SUPERVISION        9xi        O             O 1      O       O       O       9       O
I              .~~ ~~                      I          =ul=I
TOTAL UM x 000         1      5931  182,794 99,927 282,721 1106,072 189,108 296,180 1288,866 289,035 577,901 I
TOTAL 9 X 000          1         i  82,594 81,8S9 8a,878  1 1,458 32,691 34,044 | 83,967 38,969 87,916 i
I   I=I
PERCENTAGE/FINANCING    I----- >   I                   49XI                     5111                   19931
POURCENTAGE/BAILLEUR
i 8 US a       72 UN                        Note:  FE-Foreign *xchange/d.vises etrangeres
TOTAL AREA/                                        --   LC-Local currency/monnale locale
SURFACE TOTALE a     51.7 M2                                IDA=Internatlonal Development Association
APE=Parente asociantion/associatlons de
UM/M2 =   11,178 ;  I/M2 =   8155                      parents d'-l*v-s
UM/CLASSE =  577,901 ;8/CLASSE =88,028
04-Apr-88



- 64 -                                   ANNEXE 3-2
Page 11 sur 16
ISULMIC REPUBLC OF MAURITANIA/RERPUBLIqUE ISLAMIqUE DE MAURITANIE
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT/           TABLE No 7
PrIOJET RESTRCTUATION DU SECTEUR EOUCATION        -----------
TABLEAU No 7
EQUIPMENT AND PEDAGOGICAL MATERIALS PER CLASSROOM/
EQUIPEJENT ET MATERIEL PEDAGOGIQUE POUR UNE CLASSE
________-__________-_------- --------                                  IN UM   IN US
UNIT    TOTAL    TOTAL
PRICE/   PRICE/   PRICE/
PEDAGOGICAL MATERIALS PER CLASSROOM/       UNIT/  QUANTITY/    PRIX    PRIX      PRIX
MtATERIEL PEDAGOIQJE POUR UNE CLASSE       UNITE  QUANTITE UNITAIRE    TOTAL    TOTAL
REOLE A TABLEAU (1 METRE)                   UNIT      1.00      816      816      8.82
COIPAS A TABLEAU                            UNIT      0.88      626      176      2.12
EqUERRE A TABLEAU                           UNIT      0.88      626      176      2.12
SERIE DE TROIS MESURES DE CAPACITE A GRAINS    UNIT   6.88      268       66      1.00
CARTE GEOGR.DE MAURITANIE 120X100 CM.       UNIT      1.66    1,842    1,842    22.29
CARTE AFRIQUE POLITIqUE 1/1.666.666         UNIT      0.60    1,842      921    11.15
CARTE DU MONDE                              UNIT      0.88    1,842      614      7.48
GLOBE TERRESTRE                             UNIT      o.88      789      268      8.16
DICTIONNAIRE FRANCAIS (1 TOME)              UNIT      6.83      921      3o7      8.72
DICTIONNAIRE ARABE (1 TOME)                 UNIT      9.88      921      807      8.72
JEU DE 3 PUNCHES EVEIL SCIENCES NATURELL S    UNIT    6.88    1,0658      51     4.25
BOITE DE 166 CRAIES BUNCHES                 UNIT      2.00       79      168      1.91
BOITE DE 16 CRAIES COULEUR                  UNIT      1.66      116      116      1.48
PEINTURE ARDOISINE VERTE 1 KG.              UNIT      1.00      816      816      8.82
PINCEAU                                     UNIT      0.38      211       76      0.65
MARTEAU                                     UNIT      0.88      816      106      1.27
PINCE MULTIPRISE                            UiIT      0.88      816      106      1.27
CLE A MOLETTE                               UNIT      0.88      268       s8      1.06
TROUSSE ET VISSERIE                         UNIT      0.88      156       68     0.64
Sub-Total/Sous Total                                6,837    77.12
= -
FURNITURE PER CLASSROOM/
MOBILIER POUR UNE CUSSE
TABLE BANC 2 PLACES (120X60)                UNIT     24.00    5,268  126,181  1,528.66
IJREAU MAITRE                               UNIT      1.00   12,86   12,868   149.68
CHAISE MAITRE                               UNIT      1.00    4,211    4,211    50.90
Sub-Tot.l/Sous Total                              142,695 1,729.BO
-__--                -    -   - -                                   =         -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  
TOTAL GENERAL                               149,268  1,606.42
=            -
29-Apr-66



- 65 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 12 sur 16
interviendra pour la construction d'au moins une salle de classe. Au plus
tard le 30 juin pr4c4dant le lancement des travaux, le programme sera
discute et approuvE en tenant compte des critbres enonces au chapitre B en
ce qul concerne la demande scolarisable et A condition que 1'etat et la
nature du batiment le justifie. La contribution de l'Etat aux tLavaux de
remise en 6tat ne depassera pas 120.000 UM equivalent a 1.600 dollars pour
chaque salle de classe et comprendra outre les travaux de genie civil, la
r6habilitation du mobilier et la dotation de materiel pedagogique,
financ4s a 100X.
17.       Svsthme d'entretien des ecoles.  Afin de reduire les besoins de
remplacement des installations scolaires du primaire et de reduire les
cotts de leur remise en 6tat, le projet prevoit le transfert de
responsabilite de leur entretien courant aux etablissements. Dans cette
perspective, le projet prevoit de fournir a chacun des 898 etablissements
situ6s dans les regions concernees par le projet les appuis techniques
suivants: (i) un guide d'entretien decrivant les taches regulieres a
accomplir et la maniere de r4pondre a des degats mineurs impr4visibles;
(ii) un livret d'entretien pour le suivi des performances des responsables
d'etablissement; (iii) une trousse a outils; et (iv) des conseils
*pisodiques, notamment a l'occasion des interventions du programme de
construction.
18.       Afin de soutenir l'exdcution du programme de construction et de
promouvoir les options adoptdes par le Gouvernement en la matiere, le
projet prevoit la restructuration du SPC et sa decentralisation au niveau
rjgional.
19.       Service de Planification et des Constructions Scolaires (SPC).
Le credit financera les besoins additionnels du Service en mati6re
d'4quipement, de vehicules, d'ass'stance technique (trois hommes-annees),
de services de specialistes pour des appuis ponctuels (trois hommes-mois),
de formation et de coftts de fonctionnement.
20.       Cellules mobiles.  Deux cellules mobiles interviendront en appui
aus DREFs; elles seront chargees exclusivement de faciliter et organiser
sur le terrain l'ex4cution du programme de construction de salles de
classe; elle seront basdes l'une a Nouakchott pour l'axe nord-sud et
l'autre & Kiffa pour l'axe est-ouest et seront dotees d'equipements et
vehicules necessaires, de materiel de chantier et d'un budget de
fonctionnement annuel pour la duree du projet. Le credit financera
dgalem_nt la remuneration de trois techniciens superieurs (contractuels
nationaux) durant cinq ans et de deux volontaires durant quatre ans ainsi
que les services de spdcialistes pour des appuis ponctuels (15
homues-mois) et les supports pedagogiques aux actions d'information, de
sensibilisation et de formation (voir le tableau no. 8 donnant le
calendrier de mise en place des techniciens).
b:ann3-2.tst
(ear)



- 66 -                             ANNEXE 3-2
Page 13 gur 16
REGIONAL UNIM OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT/
UNITES RECINALES DES CONSTRUCTIONS ET DES EOUIPEMENTS SCOLAIRES
SUIMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF VOLUNTEERS AND NATIONAL EXPERTS/                               TABLE No 8
CALENDRIER D'ACTIVITES DES VOLONTArRES ET EXPERTS NATIONAUX                             TABLEAU No 8
IUNYEARS /HOUDIE-AWNEES
ORGANIZATION     LOCALISATION/ RESPONSABILITIES/ POSITIONS/      --        -   E-A--      --
STRUCTURE        LOCALISATION  RESPONSABILITES   POSITIONS       1989 199I  1991  1992 1993 TOTAL
SERVICE PCS
NOUAKC0OTT   CHEF SERVICE      FONCTIONNAIRE       1    1    1    1    1    5
ARCHITECTE        ASSIST.TEOIN.      1    1    1    O    a    3
ADJOINT TECIN.    CONTRACTUEL        1    1    1    1    1    5
CELLULES MOBILES
NOUAKCHOTT   COORDONNATEUR      CONTRACTUEL        1    1    1    1    1    6
COORD.ADJOINT     VOLONTAIRE         1    1    1    1    O    4
KIFFA        COORDONNATEUR     CONTRACTUEL         1    1    1    1    1    5
COORD.ADJOINT     VOLONTAIRE         1    1    1    1    O    4
ADJOINT TEOCN.    CONTRACTUEL        1    1    2    2    2    8
Sub-TotaL/                     CONTR/FONCTION.    5    5    6    6    6   28
Sous Total                     VOLONTAIRES/A.T.   B    a    8    2    0   11
TOTAL GENERAL                                      8    9    9    8    6   39
1A===: =8
j                    il~~~~~9-Apr-SB



Construction/Rehabilitation Salles de Classe
(UM)
w           O~~~QuantitIy                                                 BdoCout s
Unit     1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 lotal  Unit Cost       1989        1990        1991         1992      1994    lotal
1. INVESIIENI COSIS
A  CONSTRUCIION DE 250 SALIES DE CLASSE
1. REIPIACEPENT 6 ABRIS PROVISOIRES
. . . . . .    . . . .. . . . ..   ...........~.. 
FONDS INCIIAIION CONSPRUCI1ION         PAR CtASSE           6                     6    289.000                 1.734.000                                   1.734 000
IRAVAUX COMIIUNAUIAIRES                PAR CIASSE           6                     6    289.000                 1.734.000                                   1.734.000
NOBIIIER SCOLAIRE                       PAR CIASSE           6                    6    142.000                   852.000                                     852. 000
lAIERItL PEDAGOGIQUE                    PAIR ClASSE         6    -                6       6,300                   37.800                                      37. 800
Sub-Total RERPLACENENT 6 ABRIS PROVISOIRES                                                                    -   4.357.800                                   4.357.800
2. CREATION 244 NOUVELLES SAtLIS
.. . . ....     . ^ .... ... .. ......
FONDS INCIIAIION CONSIRUCIION          PAR CIASSE      8   60   80   96    -  244    289,000   2,312.000  17,340,000  23. 120.000  27.744.000    -  70.S16.000
IRAVAUX C INAOUIAIRES                  PAR CIASSE      8   60   80   96         244    289,000   2.312,000  17.340.000  23. 120.000  27.744.000           70. 16. 000
NO8ILIER SCOtAIRE                       PAR CLASSE     8   60   80   96    -  244    142,000   1, 136.000   8.520,000  11,360,000  13,632.000             34.648.000
IATERIEL PEDAGOGIQUE                    PAR CIASSE     8   60   80   96         244       6. 300     50, 400     378. 000    504.000      604.800          i.537.200
Sub-Total CREATION 244 NOUVELIES SALLES                                                              5.810.400  43.578 000  58. 104.000  69.724.800         177,217,200
Sub-total CONSTRUCTION Of 250 SAIIES DE CIASSE                                                          5.810.400  47,935,800  58, 104.000  69.724,800         181.575.000
8. RNIIABItIIATION DE 50 SAtLES OE CLASSE
FONDS INCITATION CONSTRUCTION              PAR CIASSE         25   25        -      50    116.000             -  2.900.000   2.900.000                   -     .800.000
TRAVAUX CON AIJNAAAIRES                    PAR CIASSE         25   25               SO    116,000                 2.900. 000   2. 900, 000                    S. 800. 000
NOSILIt4 SCOtAIRE                          PAR CtASSE          25   25               50    142.000                3.550.000   3,550.000                       7.100.000
FUTERIEL PLOAGOCIQUE                       PAR CLASSE          25   25               50      6.300            -     157,500      157.500                        305.000
Sub-total RNAB8IItIAloN DE 50 SAtIES Of CtASSE                                                                  -  9.507.500   9.507.500                       19,015.000
lotal INVESINTINT COSIS                                                                                    5,810,400  57,443.300  67.611.500  69.724.800          200.S90,000
TotaI                                                                                                        5.810. 400  57, 443. 300  67. 611. 500  69.724,800    200.590.000
:---  =z-:=z   :-z~z   -zz:z
April I. 1988  14:42
I-.
7  ..  Df .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Unite Mobile de Coordination Technique
(UM)
...    . ............    ........... .......
Binge       totll    tff0l99         191f2    w193    lotal   Unit Cost    199         1990        129)        192         1tW3      lot1 l
::s::;:*:t::::::::::::::::::            :5::::: ::::::: ::::::: ::::::::: :::::::a;Ln:. :;::::u:  :::   s::::::::: .1:s::.:::::::    ::::.
I.  stumlmt cosis
.............. ....
I S"IUINAIRS RiGIalI K6 tDt_CE
.. ...... ....... .... .... ... .. .... ....
IU1ER1IWhIN    SPECIUISIES                    NONNI JUR           20      20      20      20      20      100    18.2%0       36E.000    399.000     365.000O    36.000    3.000   1.8 M.000
MAUCES                                       atiRe/tuoo           I       I       1       I       I        6   233.600       233.600    233.600    233.600      233.600   233.600  t. tIf, lS
1ti8I61 / t1IIis1iue                        PAR Pat iCIP*86        to     to t0           10      tO       so      s.000        S.000      90.000      b.000       90.000    s0.000     2t .00
Sh11loaI SINIIAIRS RG113NA Dt DE06   _C6 E 6*8.6N64600                                                                                       648,60 .      600  648,   600 no   6So.0,  3.1243.;eo
2  CilttE  IFlo ilO REC18IOtE  /a
................     ...    ..................     ....   
J1itlERIt I 106ISIITU                       ilR URIICIPa4         40      40      40      40      40      200      2,000       60.000      80,000      U0.000     I0.000      t0,000    400.000
GOIKS 01600I2O*                                 loll[            40      40      40      40      40      20         400       16000       16.000      1.000       16,000     36.000     U. .N0
Sib 1otal CAtWtM   mlofSt mi I I6IouAIA  /a                                                                                       96. 000    96.00o      91.000      96.000     98000      480. on
3. VISITUS V&fiGEAS A
ISIS UPIaCimTu                              P8IMf" _     u        s0      s0      s0      s0      SO      250      3. No        0.000oeo     1e0.00   1e0.000e   ISO. oeoN    10.000    I". e
CUIDS K  t  CLA SIICIIt                           will            so      so      so      SO      s0      250        600       30.0 0      30.000      s0. ee      30.000    30.0 eee.t89
Sib-total VISIItS VIlitGS  /6                                                                                                   14.000      180.000     100.000     18.000    180.000     99080#
~~~. . .....
I. 502*130 cmiSII fmliAims                                                                                                          924. 600    924. 00     824.400     M2. 00    924.800  4. OX8 M
63o*   eUSAilotm                                UlER/EliIM            I               I               -        2     13.000       13.000                  73n90 e4e --
me elm                                             Mam               tO       -       0       -               20      9.6          8.se V          -      ILPA                              in. 1011
S6-lotal  0_lle63   611J  wellE 1111                                                                                                111.1O ;;;,sse6;0;.ss                                     303.0 M
mm wwJSiEll =III
. 68...7685 .mt .1.1
Umoi0 l06i6   Ic                                     At              60      60      Go               -      ISO      4.090      240.M e40.000           2  n00                       -    1n0. M
918ICKI6  4 All                                      llE             2           -       -           -        2  . 340.eee    2.tft.e             *                                  * .     .
MO7                                                  willE            2                       -                2    128.090 240.01,                      -    *M-*    t "
6619i96 m ol 8150688o                               willf             2                                        2 -  -  2 ts0.ee0  sto.000                -         *       *               s.W
oIf   Itilittl C6n1 c                                aIlt             2       -       -       t       -        8   2se.0ee       660.0             -           - No0.0IA              - NoP. M
mlolie                                            Po Posit            S       -       -       3                a    tee.eee      60. on  000                         20.0                   so. a."
UiBElil C06I86                                       w8)ill           2       -                                     S -  -  3   so0.000    1.000e000  -    s00.e                          1.e u.00M
0631U3   198301 i      DdOlITIONt UltS  Id      I/IoiS             24      24      24      24               96    20. 90    2.i M 000   2. 880.000   2. u. 0t    2.ee.000           -      0.92.9M
M01*665 E1993                                   8ttEiUi 0O            2       -       2       -       2        6   23. 600       46. Me            -    41. 2M             -   461.200   t e 01.0
cU01I2*8163S S81 6ON IS.S                          I  FlIS           24      24      24      24      24      120    64.000    1.36.000   1. S3L.000   1. .38 090   1. 638.000  1. 38e     7.80. 0 N
fitUOl 1t163u3  if nN_                                 /DIS          12      12      12      12      32       80     64.000     rif8.0       788.000     6168.00     18.000    1   .0e0   3.9 0. M
Sio-total UTtIS mtiil 98111111                                                                                                   I.327.29M   S.420.0NO  6.391.200   s.734.000  2.711.200  31.641.6490,
0  C1Ii06068   01111 E   /9                            Wt/JOUs          30      30      30      30      30      10       9. 110     IS3.3900    *le3. 300   163. 30     193,300    13,300      148 8*.
I  FINKS 1I1 tuV*IU IIlO  l -APU1PACOURS                 AVItlS          3       3       2       2       2       12   824.900    2,44.0 0   2.474,700   1.649.00   1. 9 ee00  1.6498.00   9.818.890
Total 116ESIU61  CttSIS                                                                                                             19.t  I.390   8.976.600   9.290.490   8.461100  S.4298900 4s.279.890
t PfRSOJtt 081U00t 1
CMhUIER                                          /UOIS          t2      t2      12      12      t2       E0     12.000      144,00      tU       .000           144.o tU000  44.000     e. 0 e
8lS  16118115 lbt                           _NOtttOIS             3       3       3       3       3       16    28.000        84,000e     et.000      84.00       84,bt000   6 .000     429.00
OM$totg ffilSO11t  1iPP2                                                                            1                           2280 eoe    228 000     228.e000    221.000   22.000   . 10t.2* On
2. FCtIOiUKll  I EIlhliIN Ef ufIPENERIS



Unite Mobile de Coordination Technique (suite)
25. 000    2S. 00      25. 000     25. 000    25.000    12S. ON0
murnot  IREAII                                                                             50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s.000o  50.000  so,000  60.000    64.000,    310.000
RtAERIII BUREAU                                                                                                          ISO. 000    so. 000    225.000    225.000   m  oe000    97S. 0
IERIS GEAII                                  PAR tttEi                       t t  I      t      t        S0.00                       60.00       60.000      30.000 . 000    400.000
Su  lost. ItoRCTIOSItRhI / J   IRIIIEt EQUIPtERNIS                                                                          305. 000    305. 000   3. 000      410.00    410.000  t.630.00o
3  1tC1am3tNENt1   / ENIREIIEt PARC VEHICtISES
VIHICUIC    ........... ...  ...536.000    536. 000    536.000    5360.000   S36. 000   2. 6600M
mIIU thnis.  .m                                                                                                           26.600     25. 600     25.600      25. 600    25. 600   028.0WO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. .... .                                                         .... .. .............. ...........   ..........   .... .... ....
ASSORAICA VEHICUIES                        PRO VEIIICUII         I Is2 2ts                                   2s 6 45      46.100    96.500       93000 60    3.0 0      .016    4 2M0eo
CtSS UIS ttESSEItCtE   I                       ItRES         6.000   bOCO  b5O0tO  6.000   6.000   30.000        6 50     460,000   3640.0W     3609e 00e    35.00 o   3 60.W     ,8.0
Stib total ISucIIoIUIEI / IN1R11811C  PAUC VEKICUIs                                                                         066.100    066.100     6.01.0 M   .034.0W0  16.0 00  4.,0.M
4. , t16K1S   Lj                                PAR N0T             3       3      3       3       3       Is    ;.t t.          . ... . . .....6. .......... ..... ....  .......... t.. . O
Sib-total IRRIS K *~~~~~~~~~~~~ICllU.EMIt ~~~~~1.532.100   1.537.100   1.6AS.6M0 1.66660   1.46146001  6 11*.05
total 615050083 10591                                                                         1.537.140  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.53?. 100   3.6OK.0W    1.6M.6so00  B.O660B. 116c I. O
i.  SW6.5661   10.1S13. too  30. 0. 0N0  to. ISO.3no02. ts?.58W  55. 366M
... . . ...u...........   ........................ ..........
to 4tItiliES CECltJS. DISIRICIS E1 VILIACAS
/d WIIR8RIRI
Aj E UCAtI tt
W. It I. 366  14: 42
^ PlSlEtS ItEIRttlR, ItlPIICR4PttIE



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Textbook Development Proaram for Primary and
General Secondary Education
1.        Background.  Until now, the Government has aimed at supplying,
free of charge, textbooks and teachers' guides for all subjects taught in
primary and general secondary education. However, although a number of
textbook manuscripts are being developed by the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN), a lack of resources has resulted in that very few of these
manuscripts have actually reached the stage of publication and distribution
to schools. As a consequence, there is a severe shortage of textbooks in
schools. When available, the ratio of students per textbook at the primary
level for Arab language classes (81Z of total primary enrollment) is three,
with an even higher scarcity in rural areas. There are practically no
books available to bilingual section students. Furthermore, for many
subjects there are no books at all. The provision of teachers, guides is
inadequate, and those available are often outdated.
2.        At the secondary level, the scarcity of textbooks is particularly
acute in science subjects in the second cycle of general secondary
education. This cycle is divided into three streams: Stream A is a
literary branch, subdivided into literature (AA) and modern literature
(AB); Stream C is a scientific branch, stressing mathematics, physics and
chemistry; and Stream D is a natural science branch, including a strong
basis in mathematics, physics and chemistry. In 1986-87, the distribution
of students among these three streams was, respectively, 45Z, 14Z and 412.
Of the total enrollment of 13,812 second cycle students, 692 followed Arab
language sections and 312 the French ("bilingualn) sections.  Science
textbooks are practically non-existent for the former section. Some French
books are available (mainly through gifts from France), however they are
unevenly distributed and do not correspond to existing Mauritanian
programs. Existing Arabic language textbooks in science subjects do not
correspond to Mauritanian needs, especially since the Maghreb countries
have not yet gone as far as Mauritania in Arabization of their science
teaching. In addition, Mauritania is currently revising its primary and
secondary education programs, requiring corresponding changes in textbooks
and teachers' guides.
3.        IPN is responsible for the development and procurement of
pedagogical materials and for the provision of in-service training for
teachers. The Institute has a total staff of 97, of whom 42 (32
pedagogical advisors and 10 expatriate specialists) carry out _.&e writing,
editing and publication of textbooks. Local production of textbooks is a
lengthy three-year processt one year for development, one year for



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 9
testing. and one year for editing, production and distribution. IPN's work
program includes the development of as many as 87 textbook titles for the
primary, secondary and technical levels.  Many are at an advanced stage of
development, some are awaiting testing, and some are ready for printing;
however, IPN's lack of financial resources is delaying the completion of
the process.
4.        To produce the original of a textbook and the copies for
distribution to teachers for testing purposes, IPN has a small workshop
equipped with an offset printing machine. Once tested and reviewed, the
textbooks developed by IPM are edited and printed abroad. A printshop,
financed by Saudi Arabia, is now under construction adjacent to IPN and is
expected to be operational by 1990.  It is then expected that material
produced by IPN in short series will be printed at this new printshop,
while large-scale printing will continue to be done abroad.
5.        Obiectives.  The overall objective of this project element is to
improve the efficiency of the learning process in primary education, and of
science teaching in the second cycle of secondary education, through
strengthening the national capacity to develop, procure and distribute
low-cost textiooks and teachers' guides adapted to the Mauritanian
socio-cultural enviroranent. In addition, for primary education, the
project provides a tminimum set of basic pedagogical equipment to all
primary classrooms. More specifically, the project aims to:
for primary education:
(a) complete the development and testing of 24 textbook titles in
mathematics and reading for primary education (one book in Arabic and
one in French, per grade and per subject);
(b) print about 350,000 books from these 24 titles;
(c)  develop and print about 60,000 teachers' guides in reading, grammar,
mathematics, local studies, oral expression and physical education;
(d) provision of a minimum set of basic equipment to all existing (2,740)
primary education classrooms (the composition of this equipment is
described in Annex 3-2);
for second cycle secondary education:
(e) develop and test 12 textbook titles in Arabic (c.ne book for each of
the three grades in, respectively, physics, chemistry, natural
sciences and mathematics);
(f) print about 120,000 books from these 12 titles (about 10,000 per
title);



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 9
for both levels of education:
(g) strengthen the existing storage and distributicn system at IPN and at
the regional inspectorates (DREFs).
6.        Required Outcome.  The outcome of this project element is to
ensure that a nucleus of competence is created in educational publishing
and, thereby, to improve the quality of instruction and the efficiency of
resource utilization. By the end of the project, it is expected that one
textbook will be available for two pupils in mathematics and reading in
primary education, and that all pupils in the second cycle of general
secondary education will have textbooks in physics, chemistry, natural
sciences and mathematics.
7.        Strategy.  The textbook component of the project covers three
main groups of activities:
(a) Textbook development, experimentation and publishing: development
over the medium term of a managerial and technical capability within
INP to write and test: (i) textbooks in reading and mathematics for
all grades of primary education, and in physics, chemistry, natural
sciences and mathematics for the second cycle of general secondary
education; and (ii) teachers' guides for primary education in reading,
grammar, mathemiatics, local studies, oral expression and physical
education;
(b) Textbook procurement and distribution: strengthening the capability
to procure and distribute textbooks and teachers' guides; and
(c) Textbook storage: improvement of storage facilities for textbooks at
INP and regional inspectorates.
8.        The development of the national capacity to develop, test and
publish textbooks and teachers' guides would include thes
(a) establishment of a production unit within INP to prepare for local
publishing and procurement of books;
(b) adoption of publication targets and an overall program of book
production;
(c) renovation of equipment at IPN and provision of operating costs and
two vehicles to improve textbook distribution;
(d) provision of storage facilities; and
(e) establishment of a revolving fund out of proceeds from the sales of
books to pupils.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 9
Full details of the above are available in the Project Preparation
Document. In addition, Table 1 of this Annex provides a summary list of
equipment and furniture to be provided under the project; Table 2 shows the
production schedule for textbooks and teachers' guides for primary
education; Table 3 gives the production schedule for textbooks for general
secondary education; Table 4 shows the timetable for strengthening IPN;
while Table 5 summarizes quantities and costs.
9.        Coordination and Management.  The implementation and daily
management of this project element will be undertaken by IPN since it is
already responsible for the production, procurement and distribution of
textbooks and teachers' guides. However, textbook approval is the
responsiblity of a National Textbook Committee chaired by the Director of
IPN and whose members represent all parties concerned, i.e., the Ministry
of Education, DREF and IPN.
Table 1: Summary of Furniture and Equipment
UM
1.   Furniture for IPN (Bureau de fabrication)             400,000
2.   Equipment for Bureau de fabrication
(photocopying machine, IBM-PC, titreuse,
provision for graphiste)                            1,600,000
3.   Equipment for central warehouse                     2,000,000
4.   Supplies for Bureau de fabrication                  7,000,000
5.   Two vehicules for IPN                               3,000,000
TOTAL                                              14.000.000
b:ann3-3.txt (sar)



- 4  -
ANNEX a-a
Page 6 of 9
Tabl- 2: Production Schedule for Primary Educatior. Textbook*
Ann&                           Situation                               Ann6os du projet
Mat&res              d'6tude          quantit6a       Rantr6e 87  1988            1989         1990        1991        1992        1993
MIthi.atiques        1-                     36,000             C            E           MT           D
section                    2.               26,000                          C           E            MT           D
arebophon.                 as               23,000                          C           E            MT           D
4e              20,000             C            E           MT           D
.               18,000             C            E           MT           D
6.              20,000                          C           E            MT           D
----------------------------------------------------------------------__---__--------------- - -                           ---- - ----------
Math6matiques               I-                 (1)
section                    2-                6,000                          C           E            MT           D
bilinguo                   Be                7,000                          C           E            MT          D
4-               7,000             C            E           MT           D
se               7,000             C            E           MT           D
so               8,000                          C           E            MT           D
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__---__----------------------------------
Lectur-                     le              36,000          C E            1            T            D
action                    2.               26,000          C E                         T           D
-rabophon-                 go               23,000          C E            U            T            D
4-              20,000          C E                         U            T            D
Sc              18,000           C E                        I            T            D
6e              20,000          C E                         M (2)        T                        D
______------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-----------------------------_____
Lecture                    1-                  (1)
section                    2-                e,00           C E            I            T            D
bilingue                   3e                7,000          C E            U            T            0
4e               7,000          C E                         T            T           D
so               7,000          C E                         U            T           D
Go               8,000           C E                        m (2)        T                        D
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__----------------------------------
TOTAUX                                      18C  IIE           SC          GE           Sm
SE         liM          12Y        10D            2D
SM         lOT          1OD
Tirge       862,000                                                     183,000    169,000
Distribution    862,000                                                                    183,600    141,000        28,000
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------
Ligende:  Conception  (C)                                            Tirege (T)
Exp6rimentation (E)                                     Diffusion (D)
Appel d'offrem et passation des marchis (U)
(1) Lee 614v.s qui euivront an 2&me annie la filliro bilingue sont compatibilis6s en lare annie de Is fillire
mrab. qui eat uee annie Indiffirencie.
(2) Le dicalage dane le temps privu pour certsins manuels de lecture r6pond au souci de permettre un riam6nagement
par regroupement de disciplines (lecture, itude du milieu, histoire).
b:8-8t2.txt (mar)



75 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 9
Table 3: Production Schedule for Science Textbooks for
Second Cycle of General Secondary Education
Annee                              Ann(es du projet
Matieres        d'etude        1988       1989      1990       1991       1992      1993
Physique           1            C           '4       TD
2            C                    TD
3            C                    TD
Chimie             1            C          CE        MT         D
2            C          CE        MT         D
3            C          CE        MT         D
Sciences           1                       C         EM         TD
naturelles         2                       C         EM         TD
3                       C         EM         TD
Math&natiques      1                       C         CE         MT         D
2                       C         CE         MT         D
3                       C         CE         MT         D
L4gende: voir Tableau 2.
b:3-3t3.txt (sar)



ANNEX a-8
- 76 -                                   Page 7 of 9
Table 4: Tm*etbl- tor Strengthening IPH
AVANT  I            ANNEES DU PROJET
I                  ACTIONS                   IJANVIER                   I        I        I
I  1989  I 1989  I 1990  I 1991  I 1992     1993
I-I---I-------------------- ----I--- -. I-------I                               ---------I 
IETUDES PREALABLES                           |         I       I        I        I                I
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                            I        I        I        I        I       I        I
IETUDE D'UNE REGLEMENTATION POUR             I         I       |        I        |                |
I LAVENTE DES MANUELS                        I XXXXXXXXI       I        I        I                I
IETUDE EN VUE DE REDUIRE LE NOMBRE DE        I         I       I        |        |        |
MANUELS PAR REGROUPEMENT DE DISCIPLINES    I XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxxi
IETABLISSEMENT DU PLAN DE LA CONSTRUCTION                      I        I            I
I DU MACASIN CENTRAL DE STOCKAGE/DISTRIBUTION I XXXXXXXXX I                                       I
IEVALUATION INTERMEDIAIRE DU FONCTIONNEMENT    I                              XXX()
ICENIE CIVIL                                 I         I       I        I        I
IMAASIN CENTRAL DE STOCKAE/DISTRIBUTION:   I         j       I        I        i
' APPEL D'OFFRES CONSTRUCTION                I         lXXX    I                 I
i CONSTRUCTION                               I         I     XXXXXXXX
IMOBILIER/EQUIPEMENT                         I         I       I        I        i
IMAGASIN CENTRAL DE STOCKAGE/DISTRIBUTION:
I PREPARATION DES LISTES                     I         lXXX    I        I        I       I        I
I APPEL D'OFFRES                             I         l  XXXI          I        I       I
I LIVRAISON                                  I         I       I   XXX I         I
INSTALLATION                              I         I        I    XXXi 
EIUIPENENT DU BUREAU DE FABRICATION                          I
DE L'IPN                                 I        I    XXX(2)
INSTALLATION DU MATERIEL D'IMPRESSION     I         I    XXX(2)
ACHAT BREAK BERLINE 9CV                   I             XXX  I       I        I        I       I
ACHAT 4/4 DIESEL                          I         I        I XXX   I        I        I       I
ISERVICE DE SPECIALISTES                     I         I       I        I        I       I        I
|ASSISTANT TECHNIQUE DU BUREAU               I         I       i        I        I       I
I DE FABRICATION                             I         |     XXXXXX (3)
IMISSIONS DE L'EXPERT-UETHODOLOGUE           I              XXX(4)           XXX(4)
IFORMATION                                   I         I       I        I        I
ISEMINAIRES INTERCATEGORIELS DE              I         I       I
I FORMATEURS DE MAITRES                      I         I    XXXI             XXXI        I        I
ISEUINAIRES DE FORMATUERS DE MAITRES         I        I        I                 I                I
PAR CATECORIE                                       I        lXXX    IXXX      XXX     XXX     I
ISEMINAIRES REGIONAUX r                                              XXXI    XXXI    XXX       XXXI
imATERIEL PEDAQOGIQtUE                       i         i       i        I        I       i        i
IPRODUCTION DES MANUELS VOIR                 I         I                         I       I
I TABLEAUX 2 ET8                             I        1        1        I        I
III
IFONCTIONNEMENT                              I        I        I
1-----                         1   ~~~~~~~~~~~i i i I I i
IDISTRIBUTION DES MANUELS                    I                 I IKXXXXXXXOXXXXXXXl
I                                            IbI               I        I        I       Iai
b:8-8t4.wkl (oar)



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 9
NOTES:
(1)  Cette 4valuatiot est prdvue comne devant coincider avec la venue de
l'expert methodologue et avec le deroulement d'un stage
intercat4goriel de formateurs. Elle aura pour objet: (i) d'evaluer
l'impact des manuels sur l'enseignement (maitres et 01eves); et
(ii) d'evaluer la situation du point de vue des coordinations.
(2) Le bureau de fabrication doit #tre disponible et le materiel
d'impression install0 das 1989 afin que 1'assistant technique soit,
des son arriv0e, en mesure de revoir les maquettes des 11 manuels qui
seraient deja prgts pour le tirage (cf. Tableau 3) et d'engager la
production des supports pour les maltres.
(3) Cet assistant technique aura pour charge de r6aliser les maquettes, de
former deux homologues mauritaniens de niveau instituteur diplom6 ou
superieur (avec l'aide d'un projet PNUD/UNESCO), de preparer le
travail d'4dition, les dossiers d'appel d'offres et les cahiers des
charges, de compl-0ter le materiel prevu selon sa conception du travail
(1 homme/annee).
(4) La venue de cet expert methodologue a pour objet:
-    la poursuite du travail engag6 dans le domaine des coordinations;
-    le pilotage des seminaires intercat0goriels;
-    la mise en place eventuelle d'une cellule chargee d'harmoniser
les operations d' animation-formation;
-    d'assurer une premiere formation des responsables intermediaires
(Inspecteurs, Professeurs d'Ecole Normale) a l'animation
d'ateliers p0dagogiques (2 missions d'un mois)
bs3-3t4n.txt (sar)



Table 5: Strengthening of IPN's Capacity to
Develop, Procure, Store and Distribute
Training Material
Ouantity                                                                ease Costs
Untt   1989   1990    1991   1992 1993 Total    Unit Cost          1989         1990        1991         1992        1993        lotal
.  .          . .    :__   -- --   --- - - - - - - - - -                                   ..   ..  .  ...   .   .. .   -   -   ----- :: 
I  INVESIHEWI COSiS
A. NAGASIN CENTRAI IP# /a
1. COISTRUCIIOI#                      H2       390            -              -     390      20.000    7,800.000                                                  -    7.00 .000
2  HONORAIRES i'UOTS / CO#IROIE                                                                          351.000      210.600      140,400                               702.000
Sub lolal NAGASIN Ct#NRAL IPlt  /a                                                                        8. 151,000     210.600      140.400                             8.502.000
8  110I8t1R                              U#lEf       I                                   I    400.000       400.000                                                  -      400,000
C  VIHICUllS                             UilIl       I       I                           2  1.500.000    1.500.000   1.500.000                                            3.000,000
0  EQUIPEllt#l NON   PfDAGOGIOUL                                                                          8,120,000   3.480,000                          -               11,600.0000
I  SERVICES SPECIALiSitS                                                                                   1,781.400   1,781.400   1.781.400  1.781.400  1.781. 400    8,S07.000
f  FORMAIION 1                                               -                                            2. 000,000   2,000.000   2.000.000  2.000.000  2.000.000   10,000.000                       I
C  IhPRfI;SION ilU4 tS                                                                                    9.504.000  38, 016. 000  47. 520. 000                          95. 040. 000
H  IOUR#IIIURES PEOAGOCIQUES  /b                         1.000   1,740               2.740       8,500                 8,500,000  14.790 000                             23.290.000
total INVISINENT COSTS                                                                                      31.456,400  55,488,000  66,231.800  3.781,400  3.781.400  160.739.000                         1
-                  .:       :   .  -           :::        ::   :   ::    - 
11  RiCURRINtI COSTS
A  FRAIS IO#CIIO#NNENfI                                                                                  2.000.000   2.000.000   2.000.000  2.000.000  2.000,000   10.000.000
Tota I RECURREfNT COSTS                                                                                      2.000.000   2.000.000   2.000.000  2.000.000  2.000.000   10.000.000
Iotal                                                                                                        33. 4S6 400  57.488. 000  68.231,800  5. 781. 400  5.781.400  170.739.000
/a  STOClIAGi CfNIRAI
/b  DOIAIION A lOUI1s CIASSES DU PRINAIRE
iarch 10. 1988 lb 40
00 z
0II
I.  



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
In-service Teaching Training in Primary and
General Secondary Education
1.        Background.  Although as much as 812 of Mauritania's 3,010
primary school teachers are instituteurs (i.e., have completed lower
secondary education plus three years of teacher training), there is a need
to update the knowledge of teachers in areas such as teaching methods and
revision of curriculum. Furthermore, it is urgent to train teachers in
areas not covered by existing teacher training programs, e.g., use of new
textbooks and teachers' guides, special skills required for use of
double-shift and multi-grade teaching, and the role of teachers in
preventive maintenance of school buildings.
2.        In school year 1986/87, there were 711 teachers in the second
cycle of general secondary education, of whom 510 were Mauritanians; of
these 510 teachers, about 220 were teaching science subjects. About
two-thirds of the Mauritanian science teachers are trained through a
four-year program at the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS) following the
baccalaureat, while the remaining one-third are first-cycle (CEG) teachers
who, after at least three years of teaching experience, were admitted to a
two-year ENS program. 1/ The scientific background of existing science
teachers is highly theoretical, and few have had the occasion to conduct
the type of science experiments they are supposed to teach to their pupils
according to the existing curriculum. Therefore, it is imperative to train
these teachers in the use of science equipment to be provided under the
project prior to procurement of this equipment.
3.        Objectives.  In support of the overall project objective of
improving the quality of primary education and of science teaching in the
second cycle of general secondary education, this project element aims at
(i) upgrading the skills of primary school teachers, and at (ii) enabling
science teachers in the lycees to efficiently use the science equipment
provided under the project.
4.        Required outcomes.  Coupled with the provision of textbooks and
teachers' guides in primary education, and with the provision of textbooks
and science equipment in general secondary education, this project
1/   In the future, science teachers will receive their subject matter
training at the ISS, followed by one year of pedagogical training at
the ENS.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
component is expected to have a synergetic impact on the effectiveness of
the teaching process at these two levels of education.
5.        Strategy.  As regards primary education, the project provides for
two weeks of retraining for about 3,000 teachers (i.e., the total 1986/87
teaching force). The two-week duration is an estimated average for all
retraining activities to be undertaken for p imary school teachers. It is
understood that the training should be tailor-made according to the needs
of different categories of teachers, and that some categories may need
longer periods of training than other cateogories. The retraining
activities would be organized during summer vacations, either at the two
primary teacher training colleges (ENIs) or at the DREFs, and would be
phased throughout the duration of the project. At the outset, priority
would be given to the least qualified teachers, i.e., the moniteurs (196 in
1986/87) and the instituteurs-adjoints (387 in 1986/87).
6.        The courses would update the knowledge of teachers in areas such
as pedagogical methods and revision of primary education curriculum. The
courses would also cover topics such as the use of new textbooks and
teachers' guides, use of multi-grade and double-shift teaching methods, and
the teachers' role in preventive maintenance of school buildings. A
national Task Force would be established to determine training content and
the modalities of organizing the courses. It is expected that the trainers
will be drawn from the staff of the two ENIs.
7.        As regards general secondary education, the project provides for
about 24 days of retraining for about 220 teachers (120 in physics and
chemistry and 100 in natural sciences). The courses would be held during
the summer holidays in 1989 and 1990. Their main objectives are to
familiarize science teachers with the revised curriculum and, most
importantly, to train them in how to use the scientific equipment provided
by the project to conduct practical experiments contained in this
curriculum. The courses would be organized at the ENS, using this school's
facilities and staff.
8.        Coordination and management.  The IPN bears the main
ret. onsibility for in-service teacher training in Mauritania. For the
retraining of primary school teachers, the courses provided for under the
project would be organized by the IPN in cooperation with the Directorate
of Primary Education and the ENIs. For science teachers in secondary
education, the courses would be organized by the IPN in cooperation with
the Directorate of Secondary Education and the EN.
9.        Costs.  The approximate costs for organizing thn training of the
3,000 primary school teachers have been derived as follows:



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 3
In-service Training in Primary Education            Base costs (UM)
1.   Subsistence:  3,000 teachers x 14 days x
UM 500 per diem per day         =      21,000,000
2.   Travel 1/s  2,000 teachers x UM 6,000          -      12,000,000
3.   Cost of instructors:
- Preparation of training material:
5 instructors x 30 days x UM 1.500
per day                                     -        225,000
- Teaching of courses 2/ (15 instructors x
16 days x UM 1,500 x 5 years)               =      1.800,000
4.   Provision for development of documentation:
3,000 teachers x UM 1,000                      -      3,000,000
5.   Miscellaneous                                          1,975,000
Total Base Costs                    =      40,000.000
1/   Calculation assumes that two-thirds of the teachers need to travel.
The average travel costs are based on those shown in Annex II.11 in
the Project Preparation Document.
2/   Calculation assumes that 600 teachers are retrained per year during
the five-year project in classes that on average have 40 trainees;
thus a need for 15 instructors per year for an average remuneration of
UM 1,500 per day. Instructors would be paid for 16 days including two
days of preparation.
10.       The costs for retraining the 220 science teachers for general
secondary education have been derived as follows:
In-service Training in Secondary Education          Base costs (UM)
1.   Subsistence:  220 teachers x 24 days x
JM 500 per day per diem         -      2,640.000
2.   Travel:  130 teachers x UM 6,000               =         780,000
3.   Cost of Instruction:
-  Preparation of training material:
5 persons x 30 days x UM 1,500 per day    -          225,000
-  Teaching of courses 1/ (4 courses per
year x 26 days x UM 1,500 per day
x 2 years                                   -        312,000
4.   Documentation:                                 -          71.000
Total Base Costs                    -       4.028.000
1/  Assumes four courses per year for two years with an average class size
of 28 trainees.
b:ann3-4.txt (sar)



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REP'UBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Experimentation with Double-Shift Teaching in Primary Schools
1.        Background.  In Mauritania, primary school class size differs
markedly between urban and rural areas. In the former, classes are generally
overcrowded as a consequence of the steady increase in urban population (due
to migrations from rural areas following the recent drought and subsequent
rapid sedentarization of the nomadic populations) and strong private demand
for education. In many rural areas, classes are comparatively small,
especially in low population density zones where nomadic populations are still
predominant.
2.        At the regional level, the average number of pupils per class for
all grades in primary education varies from 38 in Inchiri to 81 in Nouakchott.
At intraregional levels, variations among different locations are even wider.
Furthermore, substantial differences also exist among different grades, the
average class size being larger the lower the grade. For example in Inchiri,
the average class size is 62 for Grades 1 and 2, and 33 for Grades 5 and 6.
When analyzing the overall distribution of primary class s_.ze at the country
level, it appears that 27Z of classes has less than 35 pupils, while 42? of
the school population is accommodated in classes of over 70 pupils.
3.        In an effort to promote efficiency in the use of public resources
for education, the Government will undertake a school mapping exercise in
order to better document the regional distribution of the enrolled and
non-enrolled population (see Annex 3-12). The results from this exercise will
be used as a basis for extending the use of multi-grade teaching in areas
where class size is low, and of double-shift teaching in urban areas.
4.        Obiective of the Experiment.  The overall objective of this project
element is to assist the Government first, to assess the feasibility for
double-shift teaching and second, to develop and adopt a policy to implement
it.
5.        Strategy.  The strategy t3 be adopted follows a four-point program:
(a) initial assessment of alternative options for double-shift teaching and
selection of the options to be tested;
(b) implementation of the experiment in about 30 classes in Nouakchott;
(c) careful evaluation of the outcome of the experiment in terms of its
impact on student achievement, cost savings and institutional and
logistical problems; and
(d) policy-oriented assessment of the results of (c), and adoption of a
government policy for implementing double-shift teaching in relevant
areas throughout the country.



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 3
6.        To implement this program, a Task Force of four or five nationals
drawn from the Ministry of Education (Direction de l'Enseignement Fondamental,
Direction de la Planification, Institut Pedagogique National, Corps
d'Inspection de l'Enseignement Fondamental) will be established. This Task
Force will take the lead in the experiment through a part-time but continuous
commitment throughout its preparation, implementation, evaluation and
assessment of its potential for extension to other areas. This group will be
assisted at the various stages by two consultants -- an expert in curriculum
design and school timetabling, and an expert in education evaluation
(educational researcher).
7.        As regards the initial assessment of alternative options, the
project would -- following a careful review of alternative, feasible options
for double-shift teaching in urban primary school environments -- select one
or more approaches, including one based on a reduction in the number of daily
hours of instruction (possibly increasing the number of days in the school
year) and corresponding changes in curricula (concentration in basic subjects,
such as reading, writing and arithmetic), so as to allow a teacher (receiving
financial compensation for his extra duties) to teach two different groups of
pupils per day. Preliminary analyses suggest that the most cost-efficient
double-shift system implies a reduction in the number of daily teaching hours
provided to pupils, and that this is most acceptable in the three lower
grades. By way of illustration, one possible option would be to reduce the
weekly hours of instruction from the present 30 hours to, for instance, 18 in
Grades 1, 2 and 3, and to increase the number of hours taught by teachers from
30 to 36 per week (compensating the teachers accordingly), so that each
teacher would teach two groups of pupils per day. A major objective of the
experiment would be to evaluate whether possible negutive effects of the
reduction in the number of class hours can be compensated for by factors such
as smaller class size and more and better training material.
8.        Once the options have been selected, the experiment will have to be
properly designed (i.e., which schools in Nouakchott will be involved, which
changes in curricula will be implemented, and how will the teachers' time be
organized) and implemented (training of teachers prior to carrying out the
experiment, distribution of the relevant, specific teaching materials, etc.).
9.        To ensure that parents, primary level pupils, schools and staff
understand the reasons behind and objectives of the experimentation with
double-shift teaching, a short campaign will be mounted to sensitize public
opinion to the importance of the experiment.
10.       The experiment should begin in test classes (about 30) no later than
school year 1990/91. Student evaluation instruments will have to be ready by
this date. A control group of about 20 classes will also take part in the
evaluation as a means to test the impact of double-shift teaching by reference
to the standard teaching method. The operation of schools in the experimental
group will be assessed during the school year by way of questionnaires and
obserr7ations. The individual achievement of all participating students will
be measured by means of tests reflecting the curriculum content for both the
experimental and the control group. The results will be analyzed in such a
way that it will be possible to sort out (and to list the significance of) the
impact of double-shift teaching on student achievement, taking into account
other sources of influence (teacher and student characteristics, school



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 3
inputs, etc.). A careful report on the results will be produced, made
available and discussed in a seminar led by the Task Force.
11.       Finally, the Task Force, possibly with the participation of
policy-oriented officials, will analyze the results of the experiment and the
opinions of seminar participants, and will assess both costs and benefits (in
terms of student achievement, unit costs, institutional problems) of
double-shift teaching with the possibility of extending this method to other
areas (how many schools could be involved and in which locations). Proposals
will, thereafter, be made for a country-wide policy.
12.       Timetable.  By end December 1989, the Task Force will prepare a
report examining different feasible options for double-shift teaching and
recommending one approach for experimentation. The experiment should begin no
later than October 31, 1990. It should be conducted during one school year,
probably in the first three grades in about 30 classrooms; and the evaluation
of the results and their policy implications should be reviewed with IDA no
later than September 30, 1991, with a view to developing a system that could
be introduced as from the start of school year 1992/93.
13.       Administration and management.  The experimentation with
double-shift teaching will be administered by the Task Force, assisted by two
short-term consultants. The Task Force will liaise with relevant persons and
institutions in Mauritania to ensure a comprehensive and coherent approach.
14.       Means.  The table below shows the base costs for the experiment to
be financed under the project.
Base Costs
(TiM)
1.   Costs of Task Force (24 man-months,
part-time x UM 10,000 per month)          -    240,000
2.   Specialist assistance (5 months for
evaluation -specialist and 5 months
for curriculum specialist)                =  8,030,000
3.   Training of teachers to teach in
experimental double-shift schools
(30 teachers x 14 days x UM 500
per diem per day)                         =    210,000
4.   Remuneratioa1 for extra hours taught
by experimental teachers (30 teachers x
9 months x UM 10,000 per month)           =  2,700.000
Total Base Costs                 11.180,000
bsann3-5.txt (min)



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Strengthening of Regional Inspectorates (DREF)
1.        Background.  At the regional level, the management of primary
education is the responsibility of the Directions Regionales de
l'Enseignement Fondamental (DREF), which are located in the regional
capitals (12 regions plus the District of Nouakchott) and report to the
Director of Primary Education in the Ministry of Education. Each DREF
contains four administrative sections dealing with:
-    Curriculum and Pedagogical Matters;
-    Personnel Management;
-   Management of Pedagogical Materials and Equipment; and
-    Statistics and Planning.
2.        The number of staff in each DREF depends on the importance of the
region in terms of school enrollment; however, the average staffing is
about 8-12 persons, including a director, one or more inspectors, one
person responsible for equipment, two or more persons (normally trained as
teachers) dealing with statistics and planning tasks, and support staff
(2-3 secretaries/typists, a driver and 2-4 orderlies (day laborers)). Some
DREFs also have a carpenter.
3.        As suggested by the above administrative structure and staffing,
the main responsibilities of the DREFs relate to:
-    administrative and pedagogical support and control of primary
education;
-    experimentation of textbooks developed by the National
Pedagogical Institute (IPN);
-    personnel administration as regards primary education;
-    collection of education statistics; and
-    technical support to communities as regards school construction
and school furniture. This role is presently performed in a very
limited way.
In short, whereas the General Inspection defines curricula content and
timetables, and the IPN develops training materials and organizes
in-service teacher training, the DREFs are responsible for the
implementation and monitoring of the training provided.
4.        In view of the very large geographical distances in Mauritania,
the DREFs have a major role to play in the implementation of this project
as regards the expansion and quality improvement of primary education.
However, while most DREFs are adequately staffed, they lack the physical
means required to carry out their work.



- 86 -
AMNM 3-6
Paso 2 of 2
5.           Obiectives.  The objective  of this project elemnt is to
strengthen the capacity of the DRZPs tot (a) control resource use at the
regional and school level; (b) provide pedagogical support to teachers and
monitor the quality of instruction; (c) together with IPM, organize
in-service training for teachers and school directors; and (d) together
with the School Construction Service of the DPC (see Annex 3-2), supervise
school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance.
6.           Strategy.   To achieve the above objectives,  the project would:
(a) renovate the buildings of three of the DREPs and construct new
buildings for the remaining ten; (b) provide all 13 DREFs with basic
equipment and one vehicle each; tc) provide the  ElN's school furniture
manufacturing workshop in Rosso with materials and supplies; (d) provide
in-service training for DREP staff -- included under the support for IPN
(see Annex 3-3) and for the DPC (see Annex 3-12); and (e) cover incremental
recurrent costs related to the operation and maintenance of the vehicles.
7.           Costs.  Table 1 summarizes the project's  support for the DREFs
(apart from training of staff as indicated above). Annex 3 18 provides
further details on the civil works element.
Table I:  Su,marY of Sunnort for the DREPs
(UM)
Quantity                                   Base Costs
Un.,  989 199O 1991 1992 1993 lotal  U-1 Cost  1989  1990  1991  19`2  3i9I    lo941
I l*nviloN COStS
A auploiar,igii 80111', IOCISIIQU11 DIS SDll I
I MSIRUCI[ON                   UNiII      S  S           10 8 `70.000        44. S0 000 44 870.000            89 T00.00
2 RINOVAtIONII                 ,,,,,,     3              3 2.548.000          7 644.000                         7 644.000
3 tiDlDRAII,IS P8OIISSiwUiIS                                         4 O16 b00 2 471.900  1.b14 1.00            8.073.000
4 DIDIODaIGIS PROIFSSIDIIt IS                                         141 480  206 388  117 NO                   687 960
9  l9ull'Il1.     I  0MO   PtBAiI3 U1  (IN I It  b  7    13  I. 32. 000       8.010.000    9 345 000           17 39S. 000
6  VI IICDI S                  11111F     6   7          13  1. 340 000       8 040 000   q 180 000            17 420 000
I        **1 IiN luI 111118 of 80SS0 o.S00.000  J.S00.000                                                    7.000.000
$Ub  loa 1 04 1 811h1111111111  O37EhS  I 10I111$ DS (Its   4RF        4 180.480   74. 672 288   b  827  192     147 879  960
8 SU8M WMlIAI 1711                                                      4m.000  479000                             950 000
101.1  uINIIM N I (1s11                                                 4. 899 480  T7  147 288  68.627  114 W. 829. g90
If   61I. IID61   1.0515
. IRIS  cIWhtMl.'fNil                                                 9 23S.200 9 23S 700 9.239 200   2, 200 ' 29 '00 26 176.000
lato       cosCt3s111                                                    9s23s.700  5.735200  9 23S.200 5.   7S 200 S.21S 700 26 176 000
,Io.l                                                                    10 090 680 80. 382.488 74 062. 392 5 239.200 5.7239 00 17$ 009 960
f4'ch 10. 198 16 40
b:ann3-6.txt
(min)



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Science Teaching in General Secondary Education
1.        Background.  As of school year 1986/87, Mauritania had 23
colleges and 20 lycees providing general secondary education. Colleges
provide first cycle education (i.e., the first three grades of general
secondary education), and lycees provide second cycle education, (i.e., the
last three grades). The proposed project is geared mainly toward the
improvement of second cycle science education, although the provision of
textbooks and basic kits of science equipment, as well as the renovation of
classrooms, will also benefit first cycle science education.
2.        The second cycle of general secondary education is divided into
three main streams of study: Stream A is a literary branch; Strean, C is a
scientific branch which stresses mathematics, physics and chemistry; and
Stream D is a natural science branch, which includes a strong basis in
mathematics. physics and chemistry. In 1986/87, the second cycle had
13,812 students of whom 45Z were enrolled in Stream A, 14? in Stream C, and
41? in Stream D (see Table 1 of Annex 2-4). The pupil/teacher ratio at the
secondary level was, on average, 24 students per teacher, although in some
lycees this ratio averaged 50 students per teacher.
3.        In general, secondary science education programs in Mauritania
are outdated -- they are based on those used in France some 20 years ago --
and they do not correspond well to present and future development needs of
the country. The teaching of science is mainly theoretical, reflecting a
similar bias in teacher training and lack of equipment and supplies needed
for pupils to perform practical experiments. Laboratory sessions are
generally not provided because of a lack of supplies and equipment, and
practically all of the about 20 laboratories that exist in 12 lycees are in
such a deteriorated state that they cannot be used at all.   As a result,
most students never have the occasion to perform practical experiments
during the course of their studies. Furthermore, field trips, which are
also an essential element of natural science teaching, are not carried out
due to the lack of transportation.
4.        Textbooks are also in very short supply, and most school
libraries are insufficiently stocked with books. For instance, only 16 of
the existing 42 lyc6es and colleges have a school library, and some of
these libraires have only an average of 50 books for 400 students. The
scarcity of textbooks forces teachers to spend most of their teaching time
dictating courses, instead of adequately preparing students for entry into
higher-level education at home or abroad.
5.        A result of worsening teaching conditions in the Mauritanian
lyc4es has been a sharp decline in the success rate of the baccalaureat,



- 88 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 6
from 50.21 in 1980 to 25.85 in 1987. The declinP 'ms been particularly
marked for the natural science stream, from 50.02 in 1980 to 21.52 in 1987.
6.        Obiectives.  The overall objective of this project component is
to improte the quality of science teaching in general secondary education,
especial   in the second cycle, by providing in-service training for
teachers, supplying pedagogical equipment and materials, renovating 100
existing classrooms, and establishing three pilot laboratory blocks in
secondary schools in order to help define the conditions and modalities
under which the Government could provide, in the future, some kind of
minimum laboratory facilities to all schools.
7.        Required Outcome.  The outcome of this project component will be
the improvement of the quality of science teaching in general secondary
education and the provision of science programs that better prepare
baccalaureat graduates for higher education, as well as for the labor
market.
8.        Strategy.  To assist the Ministrv of Education in strengthening
science teaching in secondary schools, the proi3ct would: (a) revise and
update the science curriculum in the second cycle of secondary education;
(b) provide for the development, publication and distribution of 12
textbook titles in Arabic -- one book for each of the three grades in,
respectively, physics, chemistry, natural sciences and mathematics;
(c, establish three pilot science laboratory blocks to define the
conditions and modalities under which the Government could generalize the
provision of laboratories to all lycees. A science laboratory block would
include two laboratories -- one used mainly for physics, the other for
chemistry and natural sciences -- with a storeroom in between. A fourth
science block is currently being established in Naouakchott through French
bilateral assistance; (d) equip these three laboratory blocks and, in
addition, provide a minimum kit of physics, chemistry and natural science
equipment to all secondary schools (colleges and lycees) that do not have
laboratories to be used in regular classrooms. This basic kit is intended
to be used for teacher demonstrations of important experiments; (e) provide
in-service training for all existing science teachers (about 220) to
familiarize them with the revised curricula, the new textbooks and the
laboratory equipment; and (f) provide basic supplies (chemicals, test
tubes, etc.) for the duration of the project for the three pilot
laboratories and for the schools receiPring the basic kit.
9.        Table 1 shows the timetable for implementing the elements of this
strategy referring to points (c), (d) and (f) above. The textbook element
is described in Annex 3-3, while the element on in-service training is
dealt with in Annex 3-4. As indicated in Table 1, the revision of
programs, which has already started, is expected to be completed during
1989. During 1988, the set of basic experiments to be conducted in
physics, chemistry and natural sciences should be selected and developed by
a national commission appointed specifically for this purpose. Following
the decision on which experiments are to be conducted by pupils in each of
the three grades of the lycee, the lists of basic equipment for the three



- 89 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 6
pilot science blocks and for the basic kits should be finalized. Decisions
also need to be made on factors such as whether it is less costly to use
bottled gas in the science blocks or have fixed installations; and, for
supplies, whether to buy chemicals of "technical quality* or "pure
quality,. the former being much cheaper than the latter although both are
of similar quality.
10.       The construction of the scienice blocks should be completed before
the arrival of the equipment. In order to ensure proper use and
maintenance of this equipment as well r.s of that contained in the basic
kits, the following measures will be taken. First, one laboratory
technician will be recruited for each of the .aree science blocks to
maintain and supervise use of the equipment, and to make small repairs.
Such technicans are currently being trained through a two-year course at
the ISS to be completed in January 1989. Second, one teacher per school
will be designated as responsible for the equipment provided through the
science blocks and the kits. Third, the Government will employ one or two
inspectors who will travel throughout the country to ensure that the
equipment provided is propserly used and maintained, and that the basic
supplies needed to use this equipment are replenished in a timely manner.
Fourth, well in advance of the arrival of the equipment, the Ministry of
Education should take the necessary measures to protect it from theft, as
well as sand and dust, through the preparation of a storeroom equipped for
this purpose.
11.       Coordination and management.  The Directorate of Secondary
Education in the Ministry of Education will bear the main responsibility
for this component as far as the pilot science blocks and equipment are
concerned. The National Pedagogical Institute will be responsible for the
textbook and in-service training elements, while the Inspector General will
be responsible for the revision of programs.
12.       Evaluation.  The Directorate of Secondary Education will
establish a small group of people involved in the teaching of science to
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the experiment with the three pilot science
blocks and the basic kits.
13.       Costs and quantities.  The detailed costs and quantities for
textbooks and in-service training are given in Annexes 3-3 and 3-4; those
referring to the construction of the three science blocks and the
renovation of 100 classrooms are given in Annex 3-18. The basis for
estimating the costs for the science blocks and basic kits are given below;
Table 2 summarizes total costs of the component.



- 90 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 6
Costs estimates for three science blocks                     Base costs
(in UM '000)
1.   Construction of 3 science blocks,
5,770 per block                                            17,310
Z.   Equipment for 3 science blocks:
a.  Physics equipment, 892 per block    2,676
b.  Chemistry equipment, 465 per block  1,395
c. Natural science equipment,
751 per block                         2,253
d. Transport, 25Z of equipment,
527 per block                         1,581             7,905
3.   Maintenance of equipment:
3 years, 10 per year of equipment costs,
633 per block (transport not included)                      1,899
TOTAL                                                 27,114
Costs for basic kits                                         Base costs
(in UK '000)
1.   Basic science kits for lycees:
a. Basic kits for 17 (*) lycees,
606 per kit                          10,302
b.  Transport, 25Z, 152 per kit           2,584            12,886
2.   Basic natural science kits for colleges:
a. Basic kits for 23 colleges,
112 per kit                           2,576
b.  Transport, 25Z, 28 per kit              644             3,220
3.   Maintenance of basic kits:
a. 17 basic kits for lycees, 4 years,
10? per year, 244 per kit             4,148
b. 23 basic kits for colleges, 4 years,
10X per year, 44 per kit              1,012             5,160
TOTAL                                 21,266
(*) There are a total of 20 lycees of which three will be equipped with a
science block, leaving 17 schools to receive the basic kit.
b:ann3-7.txt



- 91 -
ANNEX 8-7
Page 5 of 6
Tablo 1: Timetable for Scionce Blocks and Equipment
I                PROJECT YEARS
ACTIONS            I          I          I           I          I          I
I                              I  1989   1  1990   1  1991   1  1 m         1  1993
----------------------                -- - -.'- - -- - ---I-.--- -- ----- -----
I                              I          I          I           I          j          I
IDEVELOPMENT OF PROGRAMS       IXXXXXXXXXXI          I                      I          I
III                                       I          I                      I          I
IBASIC EXPERIMENTATION AND     I during  I           I           I          I          I
IREVISION OF EQUIPMENT LISTS   I  1988   I           I           I
IPLANS OF SCIENCE BLOCKS       IXXXXX     I          I           I          I          I
I                              I          I          I           I          I          I
ICONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE       I          I          I           I          I          I
IBLOCKS                        I    XXXXXXXXXXX      I           I          I          |
I                              IIIIII
INOMINATION OF SCIENCE         I during  I                       I          I          I
IINSPECTORS                    I  1988   I           j           I          I          I
INOMINATION OF RESPONSIBLE     I          I          I           I          I          I
ITEACHERS                      I    XXX I    XXXI                I          I          I
II                                        I          IIII
IRECRUITMENT OF LABORATORY     II                    I           I          I          I
ITECHNICIANS                   I XXX      I Y        I           I          I
ISCECEBOCSI                                          I xxxx   I
IPURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT,        I                     I           I          I          I
ISCIENCE BLOCKS                I          ,XXXXXXX   I          I           I          I
I                              I          I          I.         I           I          I
IPURCHASE OF EQUIPMENt,        I          I          I          I           I          I
ISCIENCE BLOCKS                IXXXXXXX   I          I          III
IINSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT,    I          I          I          I           I          I
ISCIENCE BLOCKS                I          I      XXXI           I           I          I
[DELIVERY OF BASIC KITS TO     I          I          I          I           I
ISCHOOLS                       I    XXX I            I          i           I          I
I                              I          I          IIII
IUSE OF EQUIPMENT,             I          I          I          I           I          I
ISCIENCE BLOCKS                I          I       XXXXXXXXX    o_ oooooXiXXXXXXXXXI
I                              I          I          I          I           I          I
IUSE OF EQUIPMENT, BASIC KITS  I        XXXXXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX) I
I                              I                I          I          I                I
IEVALUATION OF THE PROJECT     I          I          I        x-xXXXXXXXI
II                                   I               I          I           I          I
b:3-7tl .wkl



Table 2: Enseignement des Sciences - Enseignement Secondaire
Quiantity                                                         Base Costs
unit    1989  1990_ 1991 1992 1993 Total  Unit Cost        1989         1990         1991         1992        1993        Total
I. INVESVMFNT COSTS
A  BLOCS SCIE9iI9FIQUES
I. COWSIRUCTiON                         PAR BLOC       2     I                     3  5.770.000   11,540.000   5.770.000                           -17.310.000
2. EQUIPEIIENt BLOCS CONS1RUITS         PAR BLOC       -     3    -     -    -      3  2,108,000             - 6.324.000                           -6.324.000
3. ERANISPORT                           PAR BLOC       -     3    -     -    -     3    527.000                   1. 581. 000                       --               1. 581. 000
4. FOURNITURES PEDAGOGIQUES                            -     -     3    3    3     9    211,000              --                 633.000      633.000    633,000    1,899.000
Sub-total BLOCS SCIENIftIIQUES                                                                         11.540.000  13. 675, 000    633. 000     633, 000    633. 000   27. 114. 000
B. AUIRC AMIELIORATION 0U SECONOAIRE
I  RENOVAIION9 100 SALLES DE CLASSE    PAR BLOC             50   50              100    350.000              .17.500.000  17.500.000               -3b.000.000
2. EQUIPE9tENF PECAGOGIQUE
PAQUCtS DE BASE POUR 2 CYCLE         PAR BLOC      10     7    -               17    606.000    6.060.000   4,242,000                           .10.302.000
TRANSPORT 0,2S POUR 2 CYCLE          PAR BLOC      10     7                    17    l52, 000    1.520.000   1.064.000              .2. 584. 000
FOURNITURL POUIR 2 CYCLE             PAR BLOC            9 0   97  I?   97    61       68. 000                  680.000   1. 156. 000   1. 156. 000  1. 156. 000    4. 148,000
PAQUEIS Di BASE POUR I CYCIE         PAR BLOC      92    19                    23    192.000    1,344.000   9.232.000               .                            2,576.000
TRANSPORT 0.25 POUR I CYCLE          PAR BLOC      92    19    -    -          23     28.000       336. 000     308. 000                        .                  644.000
fGURNIIURE P0O1R 1 CYCLE             PAR BLOC            12   23   23   23    81       11,000                   132,000      253,000      253.000    253.000       8991.000
Sub-lotal EQUIPENENI PEDAGOGIQUE                                                                    9.260 .000   7. 658. 000   1.409.000   1.409.000  9,409.000   21.1945. 000 
3. SERVICES SPECIALISIES                                  -    -             .                        876,000      876.000      876.000      876.000    876.000    4.380.000
4. FORNAJ ION 
LOGENENT                              UNITE       110   110                   220      95.000    1. 650. 000   9. 650. 000         .-                            3.300.000
TRANSPORT                             UNItE       73    72                    1 45      3,500      255.500      252,000                         .507.500
RECYCC PREP ET FICIIES                UIJNIE      220     -    -          - 220         1.000      220. 000            -            ..-                            220. 000
Sub-Total FORMATION                                                                                 2. 125. 500   1.902,000                        .4.027.500
5. 9IONORAIRES PROFESSIONNELS
POUR CONStRUIJCIO#                                                                                 778,950      467.370      311.580                              1.557,900
POUR EQUIPENENT                                                                                     1         89. 720  959 7B  37. 944          .379. 440
Sub-total IIONURAIRES PROFESSIOINNELS                                                                  968. 670    699, 146     34q, 524           -1. 937. 340
6. INPRESSION DES LIVRES                 UNITE        20    40   30   30    - 120    500,000   10,000.000  20.000,000  15,000.000  15.000,000                      60. 000. 000
Sub-totat AUJIRE AMELIORATION DUi SECONDAIRE                                                           23, 230, 170  48. 555. 948  35.1934. 524  97. 285. 000  2.285.000  126, 489. 840
7otal INVESTNENI COSTS                                                                                    34, 770. 170  62. 230,1946  35. 767. 524  17. 998. 000  2.918,000  153. 803. 840
Total                                                                                                      34. 770, 170  62, 230, 146  35. 767. 524  17. 998,000  2. 918.0ODD  153. 603. 840
April I. 1988 14!42
lb



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 4
ISLAWIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Science Teaching in Higher Education
1.        Background.  Teaching of science and technology at the tertiary
level is provided by three institutions which are all under the Ministry of
Education: (a) The Higher Institute of Science (Institut Superieur des
Sciences -- ISS); (b) The Secondary Teacher Training College (Ecole
Normale Superieure -- ENS); and (c) The Higher Center for Technical
Education (Centre Superieur d'Enseignement Technique -- CSET). All three
institutions are to be strengthened under the project. This Annex explains
the support to be given to the ISS and the ENS, while support for the CSET
is dealt with in Annex 3-9.
ISS
2.        In November 1986, the Government introduced reforms to:
(a) eliminate excess training capacity for secondary school teachers by
merging the programs provided at the Lower Secondary Teacher Trai-'-ing
College (CFP/CEG) with those provided at the Higher Secondary Teacher
Training College (ENS); and (b) strengthen the teaching of applied science
in higher education by creating a new Higher Institute of Sciences (ISS).
The new ENS, resulting from the merger of the two former teacher training
institutions, took over the facilities of the CFPICEG, while the ISS was
located in the facilities of the former ENS. Under the present project,
the ISS will be transferred to Rosso to occupy tha buildings of the Rosso
Lycde, which will be renovated and expanded to accommodate the ISS. As
explained elsewhere, the Lycee would be transferred to the ENI buildings in
Rosso which, in turn, would be transferred to Aloun where new facilities
would be constructed.
3.        Programs offered at ISS are divided into three main categories:
(a) environment and food security; (b) exploitation of natural resources;
and (c) communication and information sciences. The training would be
provided through two two-year cycles. Students would receive general
training in science and technology during the first cycle, and would
specialize in areas such as mining, agronomy and veterinary sciences,
renewable energy, hydrology and environmental sciences during the second
cycle. Students may interrupt their studies to pursue practical,
on-the-job training or to prepare for entrance exams to other institutes
(e.g., the ENS). A third cycle would be established for students wishing
to pursue post-graduate degrees (DEA), and eventually a doctorate program
in conjunction with a foreign university. The ISS programs are being
developed by its staff in collaboration with the University of Nice.
Further details on these programs are given in Annex IV-6 of the Project
Preparation Document.



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 4
4.        The total number of students at the ISS should not exceed 600
students per year during the implementation of the project.
5.        Pedagogical equipment and materials available in present ISS
laboratories for biology, geology, physics and chemistry are generally well
maintained, but not sufficient; there is practically no research equipment,
nor is there equipment available for physiology, microbiology and
information sciences. Audiovisual equipment is old and needs to be
replaced, and there is a severe shortage of textbooks and reference
materials in the ISS library.
ENS
6.        The former ENS was created in 1970 to train teachers for the
second cycle of general secondary education through four-year
post-secondary programs. Following the merger of the CFP/CEG in November
1986, and the creation of the ISS, the new ENS will provide one-year
pedagogical training for ISS and University graduates who, after completion
of this one-year program, will teach in first or second cycle general
secondary education. The new ENS is located in the buildings of the former
CFP/CEG constructed in 1982-83 under the Second Education Project. This
recent infrastructure is well equipped and only a limited amount of
supplementary pedagogical materials and equipment will need to be provided
by the present project.
7.        In 1986/87, ENS had a total of 298 students of which 123 were
enrolled in science programs. This was, however, a year of transition and,
given the shortening of programs from two to one year and the excess supply
of secondary school teachers in some fields, the Government will conduct a
detailed study to assess future training needs, including those arising
from replacing most of the foreign secondary school teachers with nationals
and from retraining existing teachers.
8.        Obiectives.  The overall objective of this project component is
to (a) help Mauritania create a capacity to conduct university-level
training and research in the field of natural sciences through the
establishment of the ISS in Rosso in facilities equipped for this type of
training and research; and (b) strengthen the training of secondary school
science teachers through provision of supplementary pedagogical equipment
and materials for the ENS.
9.        Required Outcome.  By orienting a part of higher education
students away from humanities and social science studies towards natural
science programs, and by improving the quality of se-ndary school science
teachers, this project component is expected to im;   ' the quality and
relevance of secondary and higher education in Haur       a.
10.       Strateav.  The project would enable the Go   iment to transfer
the ISS to Rosso and to install the Institute in buila .gs properly
equipped for science teaching and research. To this end, the project
would: (a) renovate the following existing facilities in Rosso: about 620



- 95 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 4
m2 of administrative space, 2,620 m2 of teaching space. boarding facilities
for 120 students, 16 lodgings for permanent teachers and 10 for visitors,
and 390 m2 of lodging for technical employees (cf. Annex 3-18 for further
details); (b) new construction of about 930 m2 of teaching space and of a
university restaurant with about 200 student places (780 m2); (c) purchase
of one vehicle; (d) equipment for eight laboratories (mainly research
equipment and to supplement equipment transferred from existing
laboratories in Nouakchott) in the following fields: animal biology and
microbiology, geology, pedology, plant biology, computer technology,
chemistry and energetics, biophysics and energetics, and soil technology.
The project would also equip an experimental garden and an "animalerie";
(e) provision for replenishment and maintenance of laboratory supplies and
equipment; (f) printing of two reference books, one on the flora of
Mauritania, the other on geology, and purchase of about 3,000 textbooks;
(g) provision for training abroad of 12 teachers/technicians through
two-month courses; and (h) provision of six man-months of technical
assistance to install laboratory equipment and demonstrate how to operate
it.
11.       As regards the ENS, the project would provide:  (a) supplementary
enuipment for physics and chemistry laboratory; (b) two microcomputers with
p-inters and software; (c) about 2,000 textbooks and a collection of
videocassettes; and (d) provision for maintenance of equipment and
materials provided.
12.       Coordination and Management.  The implementation and daily
management of this project component will be the responsibility of the MEN
in cooperation with ISS and ENS management.
13.       Costs.  Summary information of costs and the phasing of
expenditures are provided in Table 1. Annex 3-18 provides further
information on the civil works to be undertaken to install the ISS in
Rosso. As regards the laboratory equipment, preliminary lists are
available; these need to be updated in connection with the preparation of
bidding documents.
b:ann3-8.txt



unillislX  Sn#Atn      OIl 999d4 3 A  of
oq;of    fr oe    oooo    0001Ottcc   oco ,o!ccl  VA rt GoOv 009hts.10
AL           o0qr rio t tr 00e Ot t  Or   or t rt or.   t ri 00  Ut   OK ttStl CI                                                                                                                   IS501111i01 1,10l
wOoe on       001111 I     g  o tI    000 iso I     ogo woo I   ooooooc                                                                                                                     Sol 14,10  9'S
! ~ ~ ~ 99 O1S rr.I rK00ot      t/O  Wt        0 oo   tlrl   000ts CIa    0000 ttit C;10090  1969 I'1i3Xt 0'S                                                                                                       
0e 3oat i     900 CI I    00 Crl    000 "  tI       000 9 OI    O0000                       0I10190901i town Sttl 1''tS
00ooo04 E    N        o       Ctl        000 C       OOCll       000 '004  00 5 t111                                                                                    most0t    )d 1100111    0
ooo t0        oooO cl      O          ooCl          OoClot 'CI                              I                     I       I  I   I              onmal3loa 1111S3d                             0ttt0ttiE
ooo   t                                                         OOO 0oCt       O00 Ctt      C                                   I         Ilion                                stttt31mfwo  IUO3Oit
oo 004 C                                                         ooo 000  C 0e  0    I      oC0  0C 9101                                                      I s9tt00l oo110  0  9s1  01010 0 S s0A1iw
ire"td tttfddtS  C
000 Ur  01                            OO Qt6        00c 0ts                                                                                                                       *0IIOOd   111t      1
0`1L  itn  tO ehog        XP9 2 oo9 1 oro snClf OSt      ts OWn                                                 nC tsr  ftio  CPS110 
000 cOC t                                           000014 o0000                            C                                                                                       lt l 101a s 5 1 0
o00 009 C                                           0000o 4                    000C C       Cl                          Cl                JOIN"                                   S       531,  01son)
000o 001                                            000 to0t                   o 0009fiC    K!                          *c             slrtttttw                          810tlJI I W   IlilUOl
091 401 *It                          oret t1   0I    5 OtIt 9 0 osf rn 6                                                                                         S1l sI0SSli"d Slttl9iOtt011 1o10   O's
099 91a   I                                        teO  00 r   Cto 10 1                                                                                                          1111i0d0ol 1f1Od
91.! sUl It                          ors ICI I    2II  I100   go1t 0ts 0                                                                                                          llt13 il         gnu0d
S1110ISS]tO#d $11T9010   s
000 009 *                            000 019 0                                000 oo      9                   9                       S ION1/  tO1                         0II111113UdS S1314S05  0
000 000 F                            ON 0000                                   000 000 E   I                                           I                      1190911001 1102113166    t1140,116    I
000 99C st   000 119 r  00 919 t000 ooc  09   0o0 0l1 I                                                                                                              11I6ol00d  111819  10101 MS
oo  Kis01   000 91a t  00 11r0        W  919n                                  0    fg 091 9        I    I    I                           11110                          sio0 0oDD0   1  st1n1 tanw
o00  on                                            000 0n00 ooo                             01                         o1                 1ll10               SI1A01  001 I i S990110lil9t S10011
000 000' p                                          000 OS C                 000 SCI      ec                           OC                nan111             I SINAll 00s1 I   sinollollilt SiAl9
000 OIL I                                           00o  0U  0                 O00 09 I   C                            C                 Ilion          IIII 10  l0o0109  11ItlOlt 10 560la 55 ttlMI
000 OCt                               000 0                                    000 0C      I                  I                           I111n                              l1olIlOli3 inswni
000 OK l                              000 ooo   I                              000oOU'I   I                    I                          Iliotn                             lll 19w   11  0let1
oN0 t90                               000 900                                  000 Ott      I                  I                           I11110                                     SIOS 501  a I
000 001 nI                           000s0t S                                  0W   'U 91   I                  I                          1111                  1001191Wlli 1 llolsidotIg 10 W U
000 UsC I1                           000 OCl CI                                000 Wc  Li  I                   I                          111i00                   s01o10 v11  n  Itt 10103 10W Wnt
000 Ut                               000 Ut!                                  000 stt       I                  I                          Ilion                           111111A0 11001019 10 W9I
0o 00d                                0000 0o 0't                              00000 %t    I                   I                          91i11                       10019090im  09210 30 4a1
000110!p                              00011IO  C                               000 clot   i           I                                   11110N                                  110019000d U 191
00  l t9                            000 'IO  o                                  00  t 9   1  ItI n110                                                                             110010J0 11a9I
0000109?                             000 000                                   ON 000 000 0   IIlion10                                                          010010111210 Il 019  loll Uo  Il
100090901  11190191  C
00t1ir OtI                            00! 0Lq C9C900! 04nl CO9ItOII1 m11110 901  10A09    19101 (PS
000 000 It                           000000        0000S9                     000 000t  '   I                   0       00 1O0t611                                                              01o
00  00  I                            000 osr       00 0U o                     UOeOCI      91                  9        I                   n                             11111 S3iWtl  Sltt3iJtt
000t   11                         000 0490       000t990                   000t 100    9t                  tl       Cl                  n                             sP/  0nU iS11011d Sl0i110
000 OtC Ol                           000 001 01   000 0t1 01                  000C         e9t                 000     06c                 Cle                                           l999I9S1i
000 OOr9                             000000!1   000009 C                      0000I       Ool                0Co      Oto               CV A                              S1 i0d OOC I 111ll0
001 III 0                            004 040 0!   OOt 5lo 0!                   005  01     000 'I UI   Li  I                               VA                                  S311101MI003d 00W920
000 10? 0 OK r14 C    000 irl t                                             000 I         1S Ot   00olt                                 CaA                                      t1iristtitt0tt
It   ND1t  iOttAOlt3  vrnWAvl  I
U103 0211ISIAtll I
tlI"         01.1        g t66l       l6i.         0661         600411     1401 1190    1101 001 zoOl   1661    06SI 0611            11un
41I403'i *p                            S      0         '   oI Ivn                        :    l
SNa puv SSI 01 i.zoddng JO A.zJeuns : T aTqvL



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
RestructuiiJg of Technical Education
1.        Background.  The provision of technical secondary education in
Mauritania started in 1964 when the Lyc4e/Coll&ge d'Enseignement Technique
Industriel (LCET) was established in Nouakchott. This school, which was
originally designed for 600 students along the traditional lines of the
French education system, has since expanded to its present enrollment of
1069 students taking courses in general mechanics, electric technology,
fabrication, welding, and automotive repair. In 1984, an additional
Collage d'Enseignement Technique (CET - Mamadou Tour#) was established in
Nouadhibou to focus on vocational education for the commercial fisheries
sector. The school had a 1987 enrollment of 94 students taking courses in
industrial refrigeration and marine diesel mechanics. Both schools are
administered by the Directorate of Technical Education (DET) under the
Ministry of Education (MEN).
2.        Despite extensive foreign assistance (primarily from FAC) over
the years, technical education hap not been sufficiently responsive to
labor market demands, nor has it been effective in preparing young people
for career occupations. The major factors affecting this condition have
been identified as follows:
(a) During the ten year period between 1976 and 1986, approximately 7,900
students (less than 4Z) were enrolled in technical education programs
out of a total secondary enrollment of 215,000. This figure is highly
disproportionate to the needs of the labor market for workers with
technical skill qualifications.
(b) Technical education programs have focussed primarily on heavy industry
occupations which: (i) tended to duplicate training efforts done
within the industry (most notably SNIM); (ii) did not cover other
areas of the labor market; and (iii) have not been able to adapt to
changes in the economy.
(c) Technical education programs tend to be more theoretical than
practical which hinders the proper acquisition of job skills required
in the labor market. Within the present 36-hour school week, only 14
hours are spent on technical studies and on acquiring practical
experience. This problem is often due to the lack of workshop
equipment and materials, the lack of technical teacher skills and
experience, and teacher preference for academic approaches as a means
to overcome the two previously-mentioned factors.
(d) Technical education is more often utilized by students to provide
access to higher education, than to provide access to the labor
market. This subversion of technical education objectives results in
high costs to achieve results that could be obtained in general
education programs while, at the same time, little is achieved in
improving the skills available within the work force. It should also



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 9
be noted that most of these students would have remained in general
secondary schools (at a much lower unit cost) had they been able to
gain admission.
(e) Under the present system, students enter the technical colleges after
completing primary education. At this stage of their education, they
frequently lack sufficient general knowledge to enable them to absorb
the complexities of technical subject matter and skill development.
In addition, at the age of about 12, students are often physically
underdeveloped fcr the rigors of the workshop. As a result, students
presently follow a three-year program with a higher than normal
percentage of general education subjects, in part to help overcome
these deficiencies.
(f) Under the present system, no programs are offered in the commercial
areas (i.e., secretarial, accounting, and marketing occupations) which
partly explains the all male student enrollment in secondary technical
education. In addition, the present system does not offer programs in
agriculture mechanics.
The above factors have resulted in the poor quality of technical
instruction, a poor response to labor market demands, and most of all, a
poor response to the career needs of students.
3.        The MEN also provides post-secondary technical programs for high
level technicians (techniciens superieurs) and technical teachers. In
response to a demand from the mining sector (SNIM) and the fact that almost
all technical instructors are expatriates, the Centre Superieur
d'Enseignement Technique (CSET) was established in 1981 on the campus of
the LCET in Nouakchott. The CSET curriculum includes two-year programs
(BTS) in electrical and mechanical technology, mechanical fabrication, and
mechanical construction. It also includes a third year of study (involving
fellowships at foreign technical institutes) for BTS graduates who wish to
become technical teachers (professeur d'enseignement technique - PET).
During the period 1981 through 1986, CSET enrolled 100 students of which 86
received their BTS diplomas (including 23 PET graduates). With the first
group of PET students finishing in 1986, initial evaluations of the PET
program indicate poor results regarding their ability to handle the
advanced studies at the foreign technical institutes, and there is no
indication that they will be able to effective'y replace expatriate
technical teachers in the foreseeable future. At present, 120 teachers are
employed in technical education of which 39 are Mauritanian delivering
non-technical courses, while the remainder are expatriates teaching the
technical subjects. This situation works to keep unit costs of technical
education much higher than if these teaching positions were held by
Mauritanian personnel.
4.        The general condition and adequacy of physical plants and
equipment in the technical education sub-sector vary from acceptable to
poor. The buildings and campus of the LCET/CSET in Nouakchott are in
reasonably good condition with adequate space for the present programs.
Much of the equipment is in good condition, although some items are
inoperable and need to be replaced. The CET-Mamadou Tour6 buildings and



- 99 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 9
campus in Nouadhibou are in poor condition, and are in need of repair and
renovation. Educational equipment, although old and obsolete, is kept in
reasonably good operating cor.dition. All three schools experience
shortages of consumable training materials, supplies, and spare parts.
5.        Strategy.  As part of the o erall strategy to restructure the
education sector, the Government plaxs to strengthen vocational/technical
education (VTE) so that it is more responsive to the needs of the labor
market, is more focussed on developing employable skills, and is
administered on a more cost-effective basis. To this end, the Government
proposes to:
(a) increase the involvement of employers in developing VTE policies,
curricula, and evaluation criteria;
(b) diversify and expand VTE programs to include building construction,
commercial, agricultural mechanics, and commercial fishing
occupations;
(c) modify VTE curricula and improve the ratio between practical
activities and theoretical studies to emphasize the development of
employable skills and knowledge;
(d) raise grade level entry requirements to: (i) recruit more mature
students; (ii) permit a reduction of general education subjects given
in VTE programs; and (iii) reduce overall program duration;
(e) improve the staffing and administration of VTE as Legards teacher
competency, teacher/support staff ratios, and the eventual
nationalization of all technical teaching positions; and
(f) strengthen the means to implement the above strategies and improve the
quality of instruction through improved teacher training, and better
facilities and equipment to meet the objectives of the various VTE
programs.
6.        Obiectives.  In order to correct the present inadequacies in VTE
and to implement the above-mentioned strategies, the Government has
identified a series of objectives to be achieved under the project. These
include:
(a) the establishment of a VTE Advisory Council composed of members of
Government (including Ministries and parastatals), employers, and
labor organizations;
(b) the establishment of a new VTE structure within the education system
(cf. Annex 2-1) that will: (i) raise the technical school entry level
(by three years) from completion of primary education to completion of
lower secondary education; (ii) reduce general education subjects
within the technical curricula; and (iii) provide two cycles (two
years each) of VTE at tUe upper secondary level. The Colleges and the
Lycee will henceforth be called Collages and Lycee d'Enseignement
Professionnel (CEP and LEP, respectively).



- 100 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 4 of 9
(c) a 601 increase in the annual number of VTE graduates (from about 400
to 650) with no more than a 20Z increase in recurrent costs;
(d) a 100? increase in the annual number of BTS and technical teacher
graduates (from about 50 to 100) with no more than a 30? increase in
recurrent costs;
(e) the modification of existing curricula to increase vocational and
technical subject matters by about 252, and the development of new
programs to respond to labor market demand in potential growth sectors
of the economy; and
(f) the establishment of: (i) new courses in small appliances repair and
in building trades at the LCEP-Nouakchott; (ii) a new course in metal
boat repair at the CEP in Nouadhibou; (iii) an agricultural mechanics
CEP to be located in Boghe; and (iv) a commercial LCEP to be located
in Nouakchott.
7.        Table 1 at the end of this Annex shows the effects on enrollment
in VTE after implementation of the above strategy, while Table 2 shows the
effects on administrative, teaching and support staff, and recurrent
expenditures.
8.        Policy Measures.  In order to meet the objectives of the project,
the Government will: establish an Advisory Council for VTE by the
beginning of the 1989-90 school year. The Council will include
representatives of: (i) the Ministries of Education, Economy and Finance,
Civil Service and Labor, Equipment, Mines and Industries, and Fisheries;
(ii) employers and workers associations; and (iii) other training
institutions (i.e., CFPP-Nouakchott, and CFPM-Nouadhibou). The Council
will meet at least twice each year and will establish working committees to
deal with issues concerning VTE policies, labor market needs, replacement
of expatriates, general direction and content of curricula, administration,
and budgetary requirements. Furthermore, the Government will establish the
new structure for VTE by the beginning of the 1989-90 school year. This
structure will replace the present system with two cycles (two years each)
at the upper secondary level leading to Capacite d'Aptitude Professionnel
(CAP) and Baccalaurhat Technicien (BT) diplomas, respectively.
9.        Academic Actions.  In order to provide a better response to labor
market demands, and to improve the quality of VTE programs, the MEN will:
(a) complete curricula modifications for existing VTE programs in line
with the restructuring of the system and the increase in the ratio of
professional subject matter to general subject matter;
(b) prepare curricula for the new programs for the CEP in Nouadhibou
(metal boat repair) and for the LCEP in Nouakchott (building trades
and small appliance repair). These programs will be ready to admit
students by the start of the 1989-90 school year; and
(c) prepare new curricula for the commercial programs to be conducted at
the LCEP Commerce-Nouakchott, and the agricultural mechanics programs



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 5 of 9
to be conducted at the CEP-Boghe. The former programs are to be
completed by the start of the 1989-90 school year. and the latter by
the start of the 1990-91 school year.
10.       Administrative Actions.  In order to efficiently implement
courses and programs under the new structure, and in a cost-effective
manner, the MEN will prepare a five-year staffing plan to meet the needs of
the new VTE structure and curricula. The plan will be detailed on a school
by school basis and will include targets for the Mauritanization of
technical teaching positions. This to be completed by the start of the
1989-90 school year. The MEN will also prepare a five-year financial plan
based upon the new structure and curricula including personnel costs,
educational material coets, consumable material costs, general overhead
(including maintenance) and utility costs, and related adQinistrative
costs. The plan should pay particular attention to ways of increasing cv.st
recovery from the private sector, and should be completed by the start of
the 1989-90 school year.
11.       Means.  The project would finances  (a) architectural designs and
engineering for the new CEP-Boghe; civil works to construct the school with
a target completion date prior to the start of the 1991-92 school year;
furniture, equipment, and educational materials to be procured in time to
start the 1991-92 school year; (b) renovation of the former ENFACOS
facilities to accommodate the new commercial programs. This work, along
with the procurement of furniture, equipment, and educational materials,
will be completed in time to start the 1989-90 schoc. year; tc) renovation
and expansion of the LCEP/CSEP-Nouakchott to accommodate the revised
industrial programs, and the new programs in building trades and small
appliance repair. This work, along with the procurement of furniture,
equipmert, and educational materials, will be completed in time to start
the 1990-91 school year; and (d) renovation of the CEP-Nouadhibou
facilities to accommodate the revised commercial fishing programs. This
work, along with the procurement of furniture, equipment, and educational
materials, will be completed in time to start the 1989-90 school year.
12.       The work schedule for the above tasks and activities is shown in
Table 3, while the base cost estimates are shown in Table 4. It should be
noted that the project does not finance, specialist services, fellowships,
or recurrent costs for this component.
b:ann3-9.txt
(sar)



TABLEAU 1: EFFECTIFS D ELEVES EN FORMATION PAR SPECIALITE ET                     ANNEXE 3-9
ETABLISSEMENT - 1988/87 ET APRES RESTRUCTURATION                     ----------
CET Industriol   I Lyc.o Technique   I      CET de        I      CET do       I CET Tortltir.       Lyco. Tertlair.
do Nouakchott     lndus, do Nouwkeh. I   Nouadhibou       I      Bogho *         do Nouakchott    I do Nouakchott    I
ISpecialiteu de formtion I------------------I--------------------------------------------                   --1---------------------------------- I
I                         I 1986-87 IProvisionI 1986-87 IPrevisionl 1988-87 IPrevislonl 1988-87 IPrevisionI 198-47 IProvioionI 1988-87 IPrevialoni
1---~ - ---------I.                     l---l----                  'I- -i-----i-----   l------------l --      -- 1----------- -    -'--- 1
ITronc co_un              1292 1-             I          I         I         I         I         I         l
Iecanique gonerals        1162  1 90    1                1         1         1         1         1         I
IMCabniquo  uto            1 75168   I                             IW
IEI.ctro-_e cnique          114130  BO
IStructur   eta l liqwu        78   1  60    I           I         I         I         I         I         I          I         I
iMlcro-_ocaniqu-          I    -          0     S  1     1         1         1         1         1         1                               1 1  1
Diool-mngino             1 441   16    1                1                                                                       
Iblcunique                                    18337       1  90
EElectro-t.chntquw                                 asI 186                   I          80    I
1G4nlo civil-BE           I         I         l   42        390    I         I         I         I
Ilot.urn thrmiqu.e        I         I               -       ase1                      1I                                                 I         I
iStructure m     Italliquos                                 a s   -   I                     I              I                              I                 I
I----- ----------        -I----  I---   ---- ----------I---            -------I---- ---- IIIIIII
ITronc o_un                    I              I          I            6      1 |   W  |   -    |  | 
IDtosol - (arin)          I    I              I          I             17    1       e           I         I          I         I         I         I
iFrold indutrelol         I    I                         I             17   1680 1               I                    I
IRopratlon navel_         j                   I          I                       es    I 1                            I 1  1
jontratlon                                                        II              I         I              I          I
--- -           --- -I               --------- -----II---------I---------II-----II---I---I ---I 
I                         I         I I                   I       I         I         I                   I          I         I         I         I
Iabintenanoe_qul pumntell    I                                    I                         _ I 1- 68           I         I         I
buconiquw-Matoriol        I                              I         I         I             - _                                  I W  1
Iroulant                  I         I
lArtisanot rural                                                            -I         I              I
ibnralchao  t             I         I         I          I         I         I                       30 1             1         1
I- --------------------I--------- I--------- I--------- I- ----  --------- I---------I---------I-- ------I-------- I--------- I --------I--------I
ISocroterlat. *.          I         I         I          I                   I                                           SO8 I
IComptb;ite-o.tlon **e             II         I          I         I         I         I         I              -               I 8  I   -    I  eo    I
I------------------------! --------1--------1---------1---------1--- I----                -------1---------1---------1---------1---------1 1-_-1
IMaconnorlo-carrolog- *    I   - 30    1 II- ---II                                                                                      - 
1Elo,ctrclIto             I             as                                   II                                      I>  
Plomberl                 I   _                                    I         I0        I         I          I                   I         Iz
Imlnuinorlo               I         139       I          I         I   1    1         1         1         1          1                             I 1
I  I. I----1 I                    I I----.----.I..-a               a-------a -------I------- ---------------  o
I         TOTAL           I  65        436    I  464   l2401   94    I  180                 0    1  210         0 120   l               e    120   I
a = upeclalisation our 1 on; *o = formation 1 an; *** = formation en 2 an* - Substitution do. actuolle  formation. I ;n mu CFPP
Initialmont (1986/87) a 1183 *loves on formation/3 ans plus ou moino 400 forms par on;
Provision              = 1306 *IOVeO  on formation/2 an. plus ou moinu 60 form.  par on.
b:3-9tl wkl



ANNEXE 3-9
__________
TABLEAU 2:   EFFECTIFS DE PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATIF ET DE FORMATION
ET DEPENSES COURANTES POUR LES ECOLES SECONDAIRES
D 'ENSEICNEMENT PROFESSIONEL
~~~~~~~~~------  --- ----- --- -------------
ICET/Lycoo Industriel I   Collego de       I   College d       ICET/Lycoe tertisirel
I  de Nouakchott     I   Nouadhibou        I      Boohe        I  de Nouakchott   I       TOTAL
I- --- --- ;-- --I------      -------- I-------        ----I- ---------I---------
1986-87 I Prevision 1 1986-87 I Provision I 1988-87 IPrevisionl 1986-87 lProvislonl 1986-87 I Prevision I
----I----        -I--~~~-.-- ------ ---         -------l- ------- -- --------I -----
ersonnel
- Adminlitratif            11        11      I   4    I    4       i   -    |   4    |         _     |    116)      124)        I
l   l   l         l           l         l         l         l        l~~~~~~1    ) 87  1 )  69 l
- de Service|  66    1   14                  1  17    1    7                1 -    l   7 1  1  1     7    172)  176)
---I ----'-------- I------ I------I------------- ------- ------                           ) ------
_________ __  ____    _ _ _ _ _   ___   __ _ _ _ _ _    _____I_ _      _ _ _____I_      ___    ____    _I______I_II_ I
- Enseignsnts Gnor.   I 8             8      1   4    1    2                I 8            _              142)      117)        1
I        I           I                   I                   1 ) 1209      ) 130
- Enesignnt. techn        69         82      I   9    1   14          I-       18                   19    178)      1118)       I
_____ _ __---_            _    __. . ..I_ ________I-- --             ------I---- -                               - --I I I  I  I  I     I -
I               I        I           I         I         I         I         I         I           I 
_nsnmbl I                 1783       95     184            27     I         182                     3 ~ 85    I   2171    19e
____  _____ __  __|_  ___I    _     __                                   _ __I__ _ _   I _ _ _ _ _ _ I __ _ _ I      __I ___  I_____I____I______
epense  courantes
ennuslles (M. d'UM)    I         I           I         I           I        I         I
- Pore, non enseignant      2 8,2a  |   a,81   |   2,12    2,17   |   -         2,17  |   -         2,62| 10,6, 5       10,67   I
- Pero. enseignant     l 48,16      3 816   l   58  1   6,98                    9 -  9,46  -    I 10,36      6400       68,28
- Depense  de             18,68 e   16,69        3 8,76 I   8,86   I   -        5,81                4 -      4,26  I 173 6I  29561
fonctionnment                  I                       I                                      I
-----------I- -                   ------------- - -i---               ----- ---I    - -------I -------- ----- I-
-nseomble                6998 9     61,40   I  11,72 I  18 ,00         -    I 16,93  I   -         1 17,13  I 81,70  I  98,46 8
OQ z
:8-9t2.wkl
o0



Table 3: Technical Education Work Schedule
1989            1990             1991
Jan    Jul    Jan    Jul    Jan           Jul    Jsan
I       I       I        I       1        1-      1I
1 POLICY MlEASURES
2  ..ESTABLISH  ADVISORY  COUNC            IL        .......*..*        *......       * * SI
3   .ESTABLISH  VO-TECH  STRUCTURE   .......................
4  ..TRANSFER  ENFACOS FACILITIES                 ES ............    .......... *1
S                                                                                               +       +
6 ACADEMIC AtCTIONS                          *
7  ..CURRICULA  DEVELOPMENT                                              ,
8  .... NDUISTRIAL PROGRAMS                   -.-----....-.1..*.......... ........ . .    -
9  .... UILDI Nk' .ONST o    N. PROCRAMS.............     ............ 
18    M .... CIOMMERCIAL PROG.RAMS                       .......................                 +       +
11 ....MMO`L FI   SHING  PROGRAMS              j:-I         .........
12  . ... AGRIC .MECHANICS  PROGRAMS    .... ...-. --------..*.-           .......*
13
14 ADiMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS                    *
15  ..PREPARE  STAFFING  PL ANS               *            +           +        +       +            +   4
16  .. .  .LCEP-NOLUAKCHOTT                                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *1
17           EF'- NU U                                   ...K....OTT.. ..CSPNUOHT
18  .. . CEP-M.TOURE                                ,       ........... ........
1?  ... LCEP-COMMERCE                                     . ...........
25   .. .. .'EP-BOGHE                                                                                +   +
21  ..PREPARE  5 YR.FINANCIAL  PLAN                                  ........5555'I*'31
,22;
23 FAC:ILITIES  & EQUIIPMENT
24  . . ARC:H.DESI(N  & CONSTRUCTION   *
2,        -,' EP - Et: 0H I~ H E                                                                 +
2 6  .     L CEP- N OiC,'lH AK (::H 0Tt T                                  . .      
27  F. EN'.,ATIOIN  WORilKS
8    . .. C:EP -cP-M0 ME C                               ..............  .................. l
.'0:. EQIIPM1ENT PRF .......U.|l'lREMENT ......se+ 
.D1  ......'- 1CtMERi, ..OMMER.... E
32 , 5Pt,TilR ............... I *P-M".TOUR
33  . .s. LC EP-HNOUAKCHOTT                                                  ..........
34  t.::;PNaC..OT......... CSEPN-  .KCOTT..........                                                          
3S  ...... .L -        _                                                                                  + +  o Q   5
o. o
'0



Table 4: Restructuration Enseignement Technique
(UM)
Quantity                                                             Ba%e Costs
Unit   1989   1990  1991  1992 1993 total    Unit Cost            1989         1990         1991          1992    1993    lotal
1. INVESTIMENI COSTS
A. CE1 80GCf
1. GENII CIVII                                 M?   1,500 5 900 3 600 2                 3.001      21,718    32.587,859  19.552.715  13,035, 144                        6S. 175.718
2. HONORAIRES PROfESSIONNEtS                                                                                   2.607,029   1.,64.217   1.042,811                         5.214.057
3.  OBIltIER                                                                                                                  856.000       856.000    428.000           2,140.000
4. EQUIPIMENT PEDAGOGIQUE                                         -                 -                                      17.280.000  17.280.000  8.640.000            43.200.000
5  VEHICUI t                                                                                                                 1.200,000                                    1.200.000
6.  0OTAIION IIAGASIN                                                                                                       2. 625. 000   2. 625. 000                       25 260. 000
Sub-lotal CEI BOGCE                                                                                              35, 194,888  43.077.933  34.838.965  9.068.000            1?2,179.775
B. CEIT / tYCt, CONiltRCIAL HOUIAKCHOII
I  GENit CIVIL                                 H2      1.260                            1.2bO       3.200      4.032,000                                                 4.032.000
2. EOUIPEhENI  PEDAGOGIOUE                                                                                    27. 200, 000                                              27. 200. 000
3. VEHICUlt                                                                                                    1.200.000                                                  1, 200. 000
4  DOIAIION MAGASIN                                                                                            1.800,000   1.800,000                                     3.600.000
Sub lotal Cfl / IYCEt COMMERCIAl NOUAKCHOII                                                                      34.232.000    1.800 000                                    36.032.000
C  CEI / LYCEE INDUSIRIEt HOUAKCHO1I  /a
1. GENII CIVII                                 N2        720   432   288                1,440      73,000     16 560.000   9.936.000   6.,b4.000                        33, 120,000
2. HONORAIRIS PROEESSIONNELS                               -                                                   1. 324.800     794, 880      529.7920                      2. b49. 600                      0
3.110811IIIER                                                                 *BOO,8 000                                      480. 000      320. 000                      1.500.000 t00
4. EQUIPEIlENI PEDAGOGIQUE                                                                                    31.350.000  18.810.000  12.540.000                        62.700.000
5. VEHICUILI                                                                                                   1.400.000                                                  1.400,000
6. DOTAliON MIAGASIN                                                                                           1.877.000    1,827.000   1 566,000                        5.220,000
Sub-lotal CEI / tYCEE INDUSTRIEt NOUAKCHOII  /a                                                                  53.261.800  31.847.880  21.579.920                        10b,b89.600
b. CSET NOUAKCHOIT
I. NOBIL IE R                                                                 -                                  660, 000     440, 000                                   1,100.000
2. EQUIPIMENI PEDAGOGIOUE                                         -           -                               13.S00.000   9,000.000                                    22.S00.000
3. DOTATION MAGASIN                                               -                                            1,760.000    1.760.000       880.000                 -    4. 400,000
SubI*otal CSET NOUAKCHOTI                                                                                        IS. 920. 000  11,200,000      880, 000                     28. 000. 000
E. CEIT . TOURE NOUADHIBOII
1. GENIE CIVIt                                 112     1,140                            1. 140      1.400      1.596,000                                                 1,  6. 000
2. NOBILIIER                                                                                                   1,400.000                                                  1.400,000
3. EQUIPEHENT PEDAGOGI-UE                                                            -                        13.500,000                                                 13,500.000
4. DOTAIION NAGASIN                                                                                            2.700.000   2,700.000                                     5.400.000
Sub Total Cit N. lDURE NOUADHIBOU                                                                                19. 196. 000   2.700,000                                   21.896.000
Total INVESTMENT COSIS                                                                                             157. 804.688  90. 626.813  57.298.876  9,068,000           314.797.376
Total                                                                                                                157, 804, 688  90. 625. 813  57. 298. 875  9. 068.000     314. 797. 375
/a  Y CONPRIS SECTION BATIMENT
0I1
M8            .1..   ..   ..4 ......      ......    .    .   ..... ..
Mlarch 10, 19B8  16. 40                                                                                                                                                                                     10



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Vocational Training and Upgrading Center (CFPP)
1.        Background.  Despite the efforts made in Mauritania over the past
decade to improve the qualit, and effectiveness of the work force, the
country is still a long way from having met its needs for trained labor and
remains heavily dependent upon foreign technical assistance to carry out
skilled job assignments. This situatior. is due in part to student
preferences for non-vocational/technical studies prior to employment, and
difficulties in providing sufficient amounts of practical job-related
subject matter in the technical programs provided within the formal
educational system. Thus, to reinforce its efforts to improve the quality
of the work force, the Government will expand and improve the technical
schools under the auspices of the Ministry of Education (Annex 3-9), and
strengthen specialized training centers under the auspices of various other
Ministries to meet specific sector training needs.
2.        The primary institution responsible for general post-employment
training and upgrading in Mauritania is the Centre de Formation et de
Perfectionnement Professionels (CFPP) located in Nouakchott. The CFPP,
operating under the auspices of the Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth
and Sports, became operational in January 1981 with an annual enrollment
capacity of about 150 trainees. The enrollment has increased steadily to
the point where 665 trainees attended a variety of commercial and
industrial courses during the 1987 school year (see Table 1) with a high
ratio of practical to theoretical subject matter (80Z to 20X). Ihe Center
maintains close contact with the industrial and commercial sectors through
its Advisory Council (comprising members from Government, and associations
of private enterprises and workers), and through the individual employers
that sponsor trainees to the various training courses. These contacts help
ensure that training activities respond to labor market needs as closely as
possible (this is especially the case with custom-designed courses
implemented for specific employers).
3.        Although the Center's mandate is to provide training for persons
already employed, there has been a shift away from this mandate during the
past few years: the share of employed trainees declined from 802 of
enrollment in 1981, to 452 in 1987. This is partly due to a
USAID-sponsored program to develop commercial skills which has primarily
attracted non-employed trainees, and provided a large source of revenue for
the CFPP. In addition, the shift to commercial pre-employment training has
altered the enrollment structure so that about 832 of the trainees attend
commercial courses, of which about 73Z are women.
4.        Since its inception, the CFPP has been supported by two
IDA-financed projects, UNDP, USAID, and ILO technical assistance. The
results of these efforts have been positive, with a reasonably
well-equipped training facility, a completely Mauritanian faculty (17
instructors), a competency-bas.td curriculum, and generally good linkage



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 6
with the labor market. There are some contradictions, however, concerning
the quality of training delivered and the ability of trainees to perform on
the job. For the most part, employers and trainees appear satisfied with
the quality of instruction in the various specialized courses conducted for
those already employed, while there is dissatisfaction with the results of
pre-employment training and the competence of those graduates who are not
yet in the work force.
5.        As much as about 40Z of the CFPP's recurrent operating costs
(about UM 22 million in 1987) are received through charges to employers for
custom-designed special courses (UM 3.5 million in 1987), and foreign funds
such as a three-year USAID grant for commercial courses (UM 5.0 million in
1987). Unit costs are low (about UM 30,000 per trainee/course versus about
UM 96,000 per trainee/course in the technical schools operated by the
Ministry of Education). Adjusting for the shorter CFPP course durations
(because they concentrate only on job specific course content), the CFPP
courses are about twice as cost effective as those offered at technical
schools, while at the same time they are considered more responsive to the
needs of the labor market.
6.        Strategy.  As part of their overall strategy to improve the
quality of the work force and to reduce the need for foreign technical
assistance in all areas of formal employment, the Government plarns to
strengthen the CFPP in parallel with improvements in vocational/technical
education and training in the commercial fisheries sector. This strategy
will be implemented through: (a) improvements in the CFPP curriculum that
will permit a better response to labor market needs; (b) increased efforts
to provide training and support to small- and medium-scale enterprises;
(c) improvements in the CFPP facilities and equipment that will enhance the
quality of instruction; and (d) the transfer of responsibility for
pre-employment commercial training programs from the CFPP to the LCEP
Commerce to be established in Nouakchott under the project.
7.        Obiectives.  In order to carry out the above strategy, the
Government has identified a series of objectives to be achieved under the
CFPP component of the project, including: (a) reorienting the course
marketing and trainee selection process to restore the main thrust of the
Center's training to its original purpose of upgrading skills of already
employed workers; (b) providing for an output of about 50 trainees per year
in air-conditioning and refrigeration, 50 trainees per year in industrial
electricity and electro-mechanics, 40 trainees per year in computer
programming and data processing, and 40 trainees per year in small- and
medium-scale enterprise management; and (c) improving the quality of
instruction through enhanced curricula, instructor upgrading, and facility
and equipment upgrading. These objectives will be achieved through a
series of investments and activities that will be financed and implemented
under the project.
8.        CFPP Component.  To meet the objectives of the project as stated
above, the following tasks and activities will be carried out under the
project:



- 108 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 6
(a) Elimination of pre-employment training at CFPP by the end of school
year 1990. This will be accomplished as the USAID-sponsored
commercial program is completed and other pre-employment training
activities are phased out and/or transferred to the new commercial
lycee.
(b) Development of curricula for courses in (i) air-conditioning and
refrigeration, (ii) industrial electricity and electro-mechanics,
(iii) computer programming and data processing, and (iv) small- and
medium-scale enterprise management.
(c) Construction of two new workshops and two new classrooms for
air-conditioning/refrigeration, and industrial electricity/electro-
mechanical courses (to be completed by the end if 1989).
(d) Procurement of training equipment and educational materials for
(i) the electro-mechanical workshop, (ii) the air-conditioning and
refrigeration workshop, (iii) the commercial classrooms, (iv) the
automotive workshop, (v) the technical drawing workshop, (vi) the
plumbing workshop, (vii) the masonry workshop, and (viii) the data
processing laboratory. Equipment and materials will be procured and
installed in time to start the 1990 school year.
(e) Provision of additional training and upgrading of CFPP instructional
staff through selected participation in regional and overseas
seminars, workshops, and conferences related to training methodology,
implementation and evaluation.
(f) Provision of specialist services (12 man-months) to assist with the
development and initial implementation of courses in computer
programming, data processing, and small- and medium-scale enterprise
management. The specialists will also provide on-the-job instruction
to CFPP faculty vis-&-vis instructional techniques in delivering these
courses.
(g) Provision of two vehicles to replace existing vehicles that are no
longer serviceable.
9.        The work schedule for the above tasks is shown in Table 2, while
Table 3 shows the cost breakdown for this component.
b:ann3-l0.txt
(min)



- 109 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 4 of 6
Table 1l CFPP Courses by Category, Subiect. Sex and Duration (1987)
COURSES                             TOTAL      MALE       FEMALE    HOURS
A.   COMMERCIAL COURSES
Typing                                25        0           25      448
Shorthand                            26         1           25      424
Executive Secretary                   58        4           54      344
USAID Shorthand *                     25        0           25      424
Typing - Arabic                       90        1           89      424
Asst. Bookkeeper                      51       21           30      592
Bookkeeper                            58       25           33      592
USAID Bookkeeper                      25       17            8      592
PMI Asst. Bookkeeper **               24       16            8      592
PMI Bookkeeper                        15        8            7      660
Asst. Bookkeeper - Arabic            136       53           83      592
TOTAL COMMERCIAL                    533       146          387
B.   INDUSTRIAL COURSES
Hason Level I                         11       11            0      660
Mason Level II                        11       11            0      660
Hason Level III                        9        9            0      660
Auto Mechanic Level I                 22       22            0      790
Auto Mechanic Level II                21       21            0      790
Plumber Level I                       13       13            0      464
Plumber Level II                      13       13            0      464
Bldg. Draftsman Level I               16       14            2      644
Bldg. Draftsman Level II              16       13            3      644
TOTAL INDUSTRIAL                    132       127            5
GRAND TOTAL                    665       273         392
* USAID-Sponsored Specific Course
** Specific Course for Small- and Medium-Scale Businesses
b:3-lOtl.txt
(min)



- 110 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: CFPP Task Schedule
1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
1.   Transfer Pre-Employment
Training to Ministry of Education  xxxxxxxxxx
2.   Develop Curricula
(a) Air-Conditioning and
Refrigeration                  xxx
(b) Industrial Electricity
and Electro-Mechanics          xxix
(c) Computer Programming
and Data Processing            xxi
(d) Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Management          xxxi
3.   Construct New Workshops and
Classrooms                          xxxi
4.   Procure Training Equipment
and Materials
(a)  Electro-Mechanical Workshop   xxxx
(b) Air-Conditioning and
Refrigeration Workshop         xxx
(c)  Commercial Classrooms          xxxx
(d)  Automotive Workshop            xxx
(e) Technical Drawing
Workshop                       xxxx
(f)  Plumbing Workshop              xxxx
(g)  Masonry Workshop               xxxi
(h)  Data Processing Lab            xxxi
5.   Training Seminars, Workshops
and Conferences for Faculty
6.   Specialist Services
(a) Data Processing
Specialist                     xx      xx
(b) Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprise
Management Specialist          xx      xx
7.   Procure Vehicles                    xxx
b:3-lOt2.txt
(min)



- 111 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 6 of 6
Table 3:  Renforcement Formation Professionnelle
Detailed Cost Table
(UM)
Quantity                                                     Base Costs
Unit   1989 1990  1991 1992 199J total  Unit Cost          1989         1990         1991    1992 1993   lotal
1. INVESTIENT COSIS
A. CfPP NOUAKCHOIT
, . . .   . ..   ...
I  GENIE CIVIL                      N2        -   SOO    -               500      20.000                 -0.OO0.0                            10.000,000
2  HONORAIRES PROFESSIONNELS                                                                   800. 000                                         800. 000
3. NOB IIIR                                                                                  1 140.000      760.000                           1.900.000
4. EQUIPElENT PEOAGOGIQUE                                                                   1 -  16,200,000  10. 800.000             -       27.000.000
5. VEHICULE                                   -      -                                       2.800.000                                        2.800.000
6. SERVICES SPECIALISIES                      -                            -                 1.728.000   b. 184.000  1.728.000                8.640.000
7. fORNATION                                                                                 1 .296.000     864.000                           2.160.000
8  DOIATION MAGASIN                ELEVE    36    48   16    -           100      20.000       720.000      480.000            -               1.200.000
Sub-Total CfPP NOUAKCHOTI                                                                      24. 684. 000  28. 088.000  1.728.000             54.500.000
Total INVESTIIENT COSTS                                                                           24. 684. 000  28 088 000  1.728. 000              54. 500. 000
tota l                                                                                             24. 684 000  28 088. 000  1. 728. 000             54. 500. 000
fasch 10. 1988  16:40



- 112 -                    ANNEX 3-11
Page 1 of 9
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Maritime Training Center (CFPM)
1.        Background.  Commercial fishing is a major source of revenue and
employment in the Mauritanian economy. During previous years, however, the
Mauritanians have not received the full benefits of commercial fishing
activities in their waters due to the influence of foreign interests and
the large percentage of expatriates working in the sector. At present, 542
(176 out of 324 vessels) of the commercial fishing fleet is owned by
Mauritanian companies, and it is estimated that out of a work force of
about 6900, only 182 of the crews on nationally-owned vessels are
Mauritanian (see Table 1). Because of this, the costs of manning
Mauritanian vessels are high, while a thriving industry offers minimal
employment to the local labor market.  In addition, the large expatriate
composition of the f1shing sector work force hinders proper surveillance
and control of the annual catch.
2.        By the end of 1987, approximately 3500 Mauritanian seamen were
registered (and by inference, qualified for sea duty) by the
Circonscription Maritime (CM). Of this group, CM claims that approximately
1500 seamen hold jobs, although of this number perhaps as many as 50Z are
paid by the vessel owners, but are not used on board the vessels. In
response to recently enacted laws requiring at least 352 Mauritanian crew
composition on each Mauritanian vessel, the Maritime Police (Brigade
Maritime) returns non-complying vessels to port where they are fined and
restrained from fishing until the proper crew complement is deployed.
However, due to limitations of the police force, many vessels are put to
sea without complying with the crew requirements. A major factor in this
situation appears to be a shortage of experienced Mauritanian captains
which causes vessel owners to employ foreign nationals (predominantly
Korean) as senior officers. Maritime tradition permits the captain to
choose his crew, which frequently leads to the selection of fellow
countrymen to complete the crew roster. Having experienced that the
foreign crews are more productive, vessel owners have been reluctant to
interfere with this arrangement, and have shown willingness to pay the
higher personnel costs that it entails. Recently however, labor strife
among the Korean seamen has caused vessel owners to reconsider the merits
of nationalizing the vessel crews, and they are now showing strong interest
to work with the Government in recruiting, training, and upgrading
Mauritanian nationals for sea duty.
3.        In addition to the seamen working on board the commercial fishing
vessels, approximately 2000 artisanal fishermen and 1600 on-shore workers
and technicians are employed in the sector. Of these, all the artisanal
fishermen and 99X of the on-shore workers are Mauritanian, which brings the
overall ratio of Mauritanians to foreigners working in the sector to
approximately 452. Regarding the status of artisanal fishermen, on-shore
enterprises that purchase the catch state that it is often necessary to
provide credit, management and technicai assistance (directly by the



- 113 -                   ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 9
enterprise) in order to maintain even minimal levels of productivity. This
inter-dependent relationship between the large commercial establishments
and the artisanal fishermen is maintained because of a market demand for
the types and quality of their catch which cannot be duplicated by the
larger fishing vessels.  Regarding the status of the on-shore workers and
technicians, there is general satisfaction with the quality of work output
and production efficiency.
4.        In 1978, having recognized the need to increase both the quantity
and quality of the fishing sector work force, the Government legally
established the Centre de Formation Professionnelle Maritime (CFPM) in
Nouadhibou, the main center of activity in the commercial fishing sector.
The Center's mandate was to provide maritime pre-employment training at the
CAP (Capacit4 d'Aptitude Professionnelle) level and upgrading (recyclage)
for registered seamen (deck hands, refrigeration mechanics, and engine room
mechanics). Due to delays in implementation, the Center did not begin
training operations until 1981, and by 1987, had upgraded approximately 600
seamen (deck hands only). Due to a lack of qualified instructors and
appropriate training equipment, training has not been implemenced in
refrigeration and engine room mechanics in the CAP program. Under the
guidance of a governing board comprising members of government, commercial
fishing enterprises, and workers organizations, the CFPM presently operates
with an annual budget of approximately UM 24.0 million. This budget is
provided through the Government's general fund which is supported
indirectly, and in part, by a national apprenticeship tax.
5.        In an effort to strengthen CFPM operations, the Government sought
financing from IDA and the EEC under the Second Education Project. This
project component was never realized, however, due to lengthy delays in
approval and eventual withdrawal of cofinancing by EEC, and general
concerns regarding the desirability of constructing new facilities while
existing training facilities (belonging to SNIM) were underutilized in the
Nouadhibou area. As a result, while present estimates indicate the need to
train and upgrade approximately 6000 workers in all categories of
commercial fisbing sector occupations during the next 10 to 15 years, CFPM
operations have not improved and they continue to provide only a small
portion of the training needs required by the sector.
6.        Strategy.  As part of its overall strategy to improve work force
productivity and reduce the need for foreign workers in the commercial
fishing sector, the Government plans to strengthen sector training
operations in close cooperation with the employers and workers in the
sector. This strategy will be implemented through: (a) expansion of
training programs to include all job categories required for on-board and
on-shore job occupations; (b) increased emphasis on practical training,
including shipboard training exercises on training vessels, dtty tours on
commercial fishing vessels, and work attachments with on-shore enterprises;
(c) improved on-shore training facilities; (d) improved cooperation between
Government-managed training operations and the industry, including
increased financial support from commercial fishing enterprises; and



- 114 -                    ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 9
(e) increased efforts to maintain compliance with the present 35S
Mauritanian crew composition regulations, and the gradual increase of these
same requirements.
7.        Obiectives.  In order to cerry out the above strategy, the
Government has identified a series of objectives to be achieved under the
CFPM component of the project, including:
(a) an increase in sector training capability through improvements in (i)
training program content, (ii) facilities and equipment, (iii)
instructor competency, (iv) cooperation within the sector, and (v) the
financing of training operations;
(b) the replacement of approximately 700 foreign officers to meet
anticipated officer needs. Pre-officer training will be provided
in-country for candidates selected for overseas officer training
courses. This program is expected to achieve an annual enrollment of
85 officer candidates (50 deck officers and 35 officers/mechanics);
(c) the replacement of approximately 1200 foreign deck hands to meet
anticipated deck crew needs. Training will be provided for new
persons entering the sector work force, and for existing workers who
need upgrading. This program is expected to achieve an annual
enrollment of 50 students for training (CAP) and 120 registered deck
hands for upgrading;
(d) the replacement of approximately 200 foreign machinists to meet
anticipated engine room needs. Training will be provided for new
persons entering the sector work force in a program that is expected
to achieve an annual enrollment of 50 students (CAP); and
(e) the replacement of approximately 30 foreign refrigeration mechanics
and electricians, and the provision of additional technicians for
on-shore enterprises. Training will be provided for new persons
entering the work force in a program that is expected to achieve an
annual enrollment of ten students (CAP).
8.        Policy Measures.  In order to meet the objectives of the project,
the Government will establish an Advisory Committee on the Use of Human
Resources in the Fisheries Sector by the end of 1988. The Committee will
be set up by the Department of Human Resources in the Ministry of
Fisheries, to ensure regular communication among the principal trainers and
the principal users of human resources in the fisheries sector. The
Committee will meet semi-annually and will include high-level
representatives of the following: (i) the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy, Department of Training and Human Resources; (ii) labor
organizations; (iii) training institutions - CFPM; (iv) private sector
companies and associations. The main objectives of the Committee will be:
(a) to identify the constraints on employment of Mauritanians in the
fisheries sector, including training, regulations, methods of recruitment,
terms of contracts, and communications; (b) to set objectives regarding



- 115 -                  ANNEX 3-11
Page 4 of 9
(i) placement of qualified Mauritanians (including CFP! trainees) with
private companies, both for *stages* on board vessels and for permanent
employment, and (ii) a gradual diversification of sources of expatriate
personnel and decrease in the need for such personnel; (c) to monitor
progress towards achieving the objectives set in (b) above, and report on
such progress annually, including numbers of employees, trainees, and
"stagiaires", and sources of recruitment; and (d) develop an action plan
for obtaining participation of the private sector in (i) financing
recurrent costs of post-employment training, (ii) providing support-in-kind
stages* on board vessels for CFPM trainees, and (iii) covering, along with
the Government, all operating costs of CFPM, by the fifth year of project
implementation.
9.        CFPM Component.  To meet the Government's objectives as stated
above, the following tasks and activities will be financed and implemented
under the project according to the schedule shown in Table 2:
(a)  develop course curricula for (i) officer pre-training, (ii) CAP Deck
Crew Training Program, (iii) CAP Machinist Training Program, (iv) CAP
Refrigeration Technician/Electrician Training Program, and (v) the
Deck Crew Upgrading Program. These cur.icula will be prepared by CFPM
teaching staff with the assistance of a technical advisory committee
comprised of representatives from the industri and with the help of
commercial fishing specialists employed under the project;
(b) acquire facilities at the SNIM Training Center (through lease or
transfer by Government) to be modified and/or renovated for training
needs as determined by the course curricula as noted in (a) above, and
prepare vehicle specifications for trainee transportation to the SNIM
Center, submit requests for proposals, and procure vehicles;
(c) prepare training equipment lists and specifications based upon the
above course curricula, submit requests for proposals, and procure and
install equipment at the new Training Center;
(d) prepare vessel specifications for one training trawler approximately
100 tons gross weight, 22 meters long, and with sufficient space for
18 trainees plus four instructors/officers. Submit requests for
proposals, procure, and commission vessel. Arrange for appropriate
operating insurance according to standard maritime requirements.
Arrange for docking space and/or anchorage prior to delivery of the
vessel. Prepare specifications, submit requests for proposals,
procure, and commission at least two motorized pirogues;
(e) prepare and implement a recruitment, training and upgrading program to
meet the instructional staffing needs for on-shore and on-board
programs as noted in (a) above. Prepare and implement a staffing plan
for Training Center support personnel;
(f) strengthen contacts between CFPM and commercial fishing enterprises to
(i) improve course content and relevance, (ii) develop training



- 116 -                   ANNEX 3-11
Page 5 of 9
evaluation criteria, (iii) establish cooperative on-board training
program (on privately-owned vessels) for CFPM trainees, (iv) establish
cooperative in-plant training program (in private enterprises) for
CFPM trainees, and (v) establish job placement program for CFPM
graduates;
(g)  carry out feasibility study, submit recommendations, and establish
financing plan for training in the commercial fishing sector to
include support (i) by Government (through partial utilization of tne
apprenticeship tax and other sector specific taxes), (ii) by employers
(through direct contributions and payments in kind, i.e., provision of
training stations on fishing vessels and on-shore packing plants), and
(iii) by workers associations (through partial allocation of
membership dues for training);
(h) implement training programs as defined in (a) above; and
'i) employ specialist services to astiet with the implementation of tasks
noted in (a) through (g) above. 'h? project will provide for 96
months of specialist services.
10.       Costs and Financing.  The breakdown of project component costs,
financing, and the disbursement profile are shown in Table 3. The
following points are noted concerning project cost and financing
calculations.
Total recurrent expenditures financed by the proiect over its five-year
implementation period include:
Base costs i1L UH million
personnel costs                           110.5
vehicle operating costs                     4.0
general operating costs                    15.0
training vessel operating costs            36.1
165.6
of which 80? will be financed by IDA and 20? by Government. This
percentage is an average for the five-year period 1989 through 1993.
Annual IDA support will be made on a declining basis so that the Government
will assume full financial responsibility for recurrent costs by the end of
the project. During project appraisal, it was agreed that the present
level of Government contributions (UM 24.0 million per year) would remain
constant during the first three years of the project to provide time to
increase other sources of revenue includings (i) monetary contributions
and contributions in kind (i.e., training places on board vessels and on
shore, equipment and advisory services) from commercial fishing
enterprises; (ii) contributions from workers associations;
(iii) allocations from the national apprenticeship tax; and (iv) other
forms of sector taxation that may be deemed appropriate. Consequently, for



- 117 -                  ANNEX 3-11
Page 6 of 9
the three years 1989, 1990 and 1991, it is expected that IDA will finance
the difference between actual operating costs and the about UM 24 million
provided by the Government. The remainder of the IDA contribution
(totalling UM 132.5 million over the five-year period 1989-1993) would be
disbursed during the last two years of project implementation. The actual
IDA contribution for each year would be determined after IDA's approval of
the annual operating budget for CFPM for that year.
Recurrent expenditures not financed by the proiect include (1989 through
1993):
Base costs in UM million
leasing of SNIM facilities               36.0
student support (bourses)                51.5
general maintenance costs                20.0
officer training (overseas)              21.0
general operating costs                   5.5
134.0
This brings total estimated recurrent expenditures to UM 299.6 million over
the five year period of the project. On an annual basis, these costs will
be about UN 30.0 million and UM 54.0 million for the first and second years
of the project, then reaching a level of about UM 72.0 million (not
counting for inflation) for the remainder of the project. These figures
are based upon a gradual build-up of operational activity (putting the SNIM
facilities and the training vessels in operation) during the first two
years and achieving full enrollment by the third year.
11.       The CFPM's use of the SNIM training facilities is considered an
internal government matter. At negotiations, the Goverment presented a
signed contract for the lease of these facilities.
12.       Operating cost figures for training vessels do not include
maritime insurance. It is the policy of the Government to be self-insured;
however, in the absence of a properly earmarked fund to cover maritime
hazards, it is advisable to insure the vessel according to maritime
standards. Initial indications are that appropriate insurance would cost
about UM 2.5 million per year (or UM 10.0 million for four years of
operation under the project).
b:ann3-ll.txt
(min)



- 118 -
ANNEX 3-11
Table  I:    Origine des Equipages des Navires                                   Pge7o   9
Mauritaniens de Piche - Juin 1987
(Renseignements fournis, par la FIAP et 1'ALMAp)
Figures do not include FIAPECHE & other enterprises.
IP ll C4ltalin          I    21      9 57  I  25   1 43  3    1       f 0 1I  I8 11W31seaa1u,gtlufts 
IA                      I            I    I         I    I            I    I         I    Impregitau'odeso
is                      I            I    I         I    I            I    I         I    IbatinaI
IS 2)la Officaar        I    20      1 57 11 S      343 1      1      30,119I 13I183I
1C 3) 26   ffuxer       I            I    I         I    I    1             1+1 Iin   life 
la  4) 3.m  tia.ur      I            I    I         I    I    16    I17 I   0      42  !C'at 1'nuiAit1mWI
It                      I            I    I         I    I1                I 1       3     du Airez.I
IL S)  atmw-9pc         I            3    3         1    3    0        0 21a    I in!Sr at"=  .m.6s. 
IL    (ttdoima)         I            I    1         I    I            I    I         I    I                       I
Iz 6) cZtiw Cuba    I                I    I         I    1    6       311I  St   IS9a 5isuawtm  amu4m. I
I                       I            3                   I _--__J_____I    1         I     I                   -  1
Is1) CIat cai=cum    3    15         3 43321    15731    0            303       0 1   13in zaugim.I
IA                      I            I    I         I    I            I    I         1     I
IL 2)la r0iif  uN. 1         35    1133 I 091    0    1              I031102   3103I
IL                      I            I        I                                      I     I 
3t 3) 2imafiai        .I             3    3I                  1 0       0     10231  12 I
I                 I~~~~        1    1         3                                1    3 
InI 4) 34mOfii0r4 Me. I              1    I         I    I    le      12 36   53   1Ws  law bat"=asmat*.a.I
IA                      I            3    3         3    3            I    I         I     I                      I
IC S) aaasmrs           1    U0      11no3I   0   3    3   210    1 563          s  160   34    3mds cwi          I
31                      I            I    I         I    I                                  
Is                      I            I    I         I    I                                  
311              3~~~~1 3      3 is          I3    3            39  1          32   I 
IT  )l   Aet            I    3S      Il 3          0     I    20         32   32       I6      bm        ut     .i
IS                      I            I    I         I                 I               I   .1I
1P1) 3) ns4iup                75     310 I3      1  003       10      I  39I162      IS 36!  ce  d6,Pa            I
i0t      temte          I            I              I    I            I    I         I    1Ave
ICI 41Htlt                    1                     I     B    2      I35I  71       65Waeev6
IN                                   1    I           I  I                           I    !1/n*aun*
it  5) TsevipUst        I            I  13      0    03        0      149      104   I53~100!u  iiesur   ts   I
IT  3)Cmitae                         I              I    I1  I3       3        3     3     !Su Inavu
!R33                                                    I  I                         3    314enaYlre patiutm ac.  I
37 23 MO, dit6esw       1                 3         3       1  0       39  I 4    3 510  Iupa nan~rese.aws
IT                                                                         I               ctl
!E  3). Hatelots  ~~I         I    I               I                 Iv 8  U2   1 3     a
!R                I                                .1                I         I    'bat"=  s 1t3     
IN                      B           B    Btrun      B          6      B    B0  1    I7  IB
IG                                        t~~~~~~~~~IS I                       I    II
B                 ~     ~     ~~~~I S5 12 NI    IB   B         B.4    I B I    I6  1 621 
.F 1)ft gm2am"          I            3%  IB3B 18                                             teaiMaurOA
In=                                                                                        IF=333        3 Otam tsiuqi: 3.6 
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tm 1ihmr 34 )4 
Rot2)e:   Of th    1,2   rai6l re2stre   onvssl,,prxiael                                        0
report for duty  leaving*  an efetv     artnan   okfreofaot



- 119 -                               ANNEX 3-11
Page 8 of 9
Table 2: CFPM Work Schedule
1908         1589         1590          1991         t992          1,
Jul   Jan   Jul   J&n   J.ji   J&n   Jul   J&n   Jul   Jan   Jw
DEVELOP :OURSE CURRICULA
..OFF'CER PRE-TRAING ...
..DECK CREM TRAINING (CAP)                  .      .......
..mACHINIST TRAININC (CAP)
..REFRIG/ELEC.TRAININO (CAP)  +
..DECK CREW UPORADING .
ACQUIRE & PREPARE FACILITIES
..CFPM TO ACQUIRE SNIM CENTER           .............................                       ; ,.;
..FACILITY RENOUATIONS           +                  ............................................
..PREPARE EQUIPHENT LISTS
..BIDDINC & PROCUREMENT               ..1                  ..
..EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION                                    ......................................
ACQUIRE/COMMISSION TNC.UESSEL +         +      4            +         +         +      +      t
..PREPARE SPECIFICATIONS                      .          ..........
-.B.IDDING & PROCUREMENT                      . ......... ......... .
..DELIUERY & COMMISSION                           ................................---
,..ACQUIRE DOCKING/ANCHORAOE           ..-                   ..........
,,.ACQUIRE INSURANCE             +  *..I .....--i..
STAFFING
-.RECRUITMENT PROGRAM                            ..-1.
.STAFF TRAINING       *                : i
,.UESSEL OPERATION TNC.          +   I.:, ..........   1-.    1............................
TtAINING COORDINATION
..EST.CURRICULUM CO"MITTEE             . .-;
..EST.TNO EUALUATION CRITERI A.. -.--4....
..EST.COOPERATIUE TNC PROGR*A + .........
..EST.JOB PLACEMENT PROORAN    * .           ......,.
TRAINING FINANCE
..TRAININC REUENUE STUDY    .
..IMPLEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS + ....
SPECIALIST SERUICES
..DIRECTOR OF STUDIES                                                        ........................
..DECK TNC SPECIALIST                                                        ...............
..hMACHINE TN; SPECIALIST        +                      ..                       ...........
..CAPTAIN TNH UESSEL.'I.
..CH.ENGINEER TNC VESSEL......-- 
..SHORT TERM SPECIALISTS               .......                               .....................
TRAINING IMPLEMENTATION                 +      *     +                                 +      +
...DECK CREU UPCRADINC
... DECK CREJ TRAINING (CAP)             ......
-.MACHINIST TRAINING, (CAP)           h.......
.OFFICER PRE-TRAINING               .......        I      I      



Table 3: CFPM - Investment and Recurrent Costs
CATESORY           CIVIL     FURNITURE    TRAINING    VEHICLES   SPECIALIST    STAFF          SPPLIES    EEL.RRE1i  RECURRENT   RECURRENT  RECURRENT   60VT.COST   RECIRkREII    BASE COST    10TTL
1ORKS                   EIUiFMENT                SERVICES    TRAINING                  COSTIOA)   CGSl(lOVTI  COSTIPhOJI COSTI1TRA)*  T70TALOICOST-PR3IG0/    -000- UN   -0-. 441S
=-=5 ==                                                                                                                               .. . . ... ==r :==: := ::S=t:2 -e4:  S:Sfls:B m
2.D. CFP! t'lDHIBDU      3,425.0      1.710.0    24,000.0      8.100.0    73,320.0       3,000.0     2.340.0   103,334.4    25,033.6   12?,168.0   107,082.0   132,915.6   236,250.0   245,413.0          3,406.5
TRAINI.lSG VESSE!       0.0          0.0    72,240.0          0.0    16,90.0          0.0      4.t80.0    25,145.6      7.28r.4    36.432.0    26,910.0    34,204.4    63,350.0   130,272.0         1,809.3
3,425.0      1,760.0    SD,240.0      8,400.0    90,240.0      3,000.0      7,02(.0 -1;.480.0    33,120.0   165,600.0   134,000.0   167,120.0   299.600.0   375,685.0            5,217.1
1i.rl:iSSEIEHITS                                                                                                                                                                                                              r-
CFPK 1lOUtW  OOU
1989             3,425.0     1,700.0    38,496.0      8,400.0    45,120.0       1,800.0     2,106.0      6,000.0    10,560.0    16,560.0    13,400.0    23,960.0    29,960.0   117,667.0          1,634.3
1990                 0.0         0.0    38,496.0           0.0    27,072.0      1,200.0     2.108.0    28,000.0       1,08.0    21,808.0    24,120.0    25,928.0    53,128.0    91,682.0          1,370.6
1991                 0.0         0.0    19,248.0           0.0    18,048.0          0.0      1,404.0    39,744.0          0.0    39,744.0    32,160.0    32,160.0    71,S04.0    78,444.0         1,D09.S
1992                 0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0      1,404.0    30,000.0      9,744.0    39,744.0    32,160.0    41,904.0    71,904.0    41,148.0          511.5
1993                 0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0    28,736.0    11,008.0    39,744.0    32,160.0    43,168.0    71,904.0    39,744.0            552.0
3,425.0     1,760.0    96,240.0      8,400.0    90,240.0       3,000.0     7,020.0   132,480.0    33,120.9   165,600.0   134,000.0   167,120.0   299,600.0   375,685.0          5,217.1
* Recurrent Costs not financed by the Project
** Recurrent Costs (project and extra) to be financed by Government
.og
o0 
0 _
I.'-



- 121 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Summary of Support to Strengthen the Planning and Management
Capacity of the Ministry of Education
1.        Obiectives.  This sub-component aims at enhancing the capacity of
the Ministry of Education to: (i) collect and analyze data and publish
education statistics, conduct studies and planning activities, and prepare
relevant technical work as background information for decision makers; and
(ii) establish a better information system on education sector personnel
(teaching and non-teaching) in order to eliminate wastage (e.g., persons
receiving salary while not in service, some being paid twice for certain
indemnities) and improve personnel management and budgeting procedures. To
this end, the project will strengthen (a) the Directorate of Planning and
Cooperation (Direction de la Planification et de la Cooperation - DPC), and
(b) the Personnel Management Unit (Direction du Personnel - DP).
StrengtheninR the Directorate of Planning and Coordination (DPC)
2.        Background.  The DPC so far has concentrated most of its
activities on the production of the Education Statistics Yearbook which is
published regularly every year. However, the data collected in certain key
areas are very limited (e.g., on higher education or on costs and financing
of education), and almost no planning activities have been undertaken.
Furthermore, the outcome of education, in terms of student acquisitions or
labor market performance, has not been analyzed in any systematic manner.
As a consequence, neither the cost nor the benefit side of education is
well documented.  The staffing of the DPC is limited both in terms of
numbers and experience in education planning.
3.        Strategy and Work Program.  The first step would be to improve
the quality and coverage of the education statistics collected, and to
computerize these statistics in order to make high quality information
available in a timely manner, as well as simplify production of the
statistical yearbook. The improved data base would provide the foundation
for real planning activities and for the realization of specific studies.
To achieve this goal would require, inter alia, that pupil registers kept
by schools be reviewed and improved; that questionnaires used for the
collection of statistics from schools be revised; and that staff at the
school and inspectorate levels be trained to maintain registers and
complete the questionnaires.
4.        A second and more difficult step would be to develop a technical
capacity to conduct studies and to plan and monitor educational
development. To help establish such a capacity, the project would initiate
a limited number of studies to be conducted by nationals, supported by
technical assistance. These studies would include: (a) the establishment
of a country-wide primary school map; (b) an evaluation of experiments in
double-shift teach4na 4n rnrimary schools; (c) a tracer study of graduates



- 122 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 2 of 6
from technical and vocational schools; (d) an analysis of cost functions
and returns to scale in general secondary schools; (e) a study of measures
likely to promote the enrollment of girls; and (f) development and
implementation of measures to promote the provision of private education.
Such studies are of importance in improving the overall efficiency of the
school system while, at the same time, providing invaluable work experience
through which the capacity of DPC staff could be strengthened. Short
training courses, either to introduce operational planning techniques or to
assess policy implications of technical work, will complement this
learning-by-doing training strategy.
5.        The DPC is also in charge of programming and supervising school
construction. While school construction at the primary level was
previously the responsibility of both the local communities and the
Government, the full responsibility has now been passed on to the local
communities. However, the Government, although released from direct school
construction activities, still performs important functions through the
School Construction Service (SCS) of the DPC: planning construction of new
schools and maintenance of existing ones; establishment of a
community-based maintenance system; establishment of construction standards
so that efficient (i.e., low-cost and durable) construction techniques are
used; and definition of administrative and financial regulations pertaining
to the contracting out of civil works to local firms. These tasks are to
be performed at the national level, while data collection and supervision
of construction and maintenance activities will be performed at the
regional level through the staff of the Regional Primary School
Inspectorates -- Directions Regionales de l'Enseignement Fondamental (DREF)
(see Annex 3-6 for the DREFs, and Annex 3-2 for a description of the
Primary School Construction and Maintenance Program).
6.        Means.  Table 1 summarizes the support for the DPC except for
support for the School Construction Service (SCS), which is summarized in
Table 2. Support for the DPC includes: (a) 36 man-months of long-term
specialist services (educational planner) and 24 man-months of short-term
specialist services to assist in the preparation of studies and future
education prnients; (b) resources to organize two national seminars on
school mapping, five seminars (one per year) for staff of the DREFs and one
other national seminar per year on different aspects of educational
development/planning; (c) a total of 72 man-months of scholarships abroad
in the fields of educational planning, statistics and management, and a
provision for two man-months per year for participation in regional or
international seminars; (d) a lump sum for equipment; and (e) a lump sum
provision for recurrent costs. Support to the SCS includes: (i) furniture
and equipment including one vehicle; (ii) 36 man-months of long-term
specialist services (architect) and 60 man-months of locally recruited
specialist services; (iii) resources for organizing seminars related to
laur.ching SCS activities and for the transfer of school maintenance
responsibilities to local communities; and (iv) recurrent costs for office
supplies and operation of the two vehicles.
Strengthening of the Personnel Directorate (DP)
7.        Background.  The Ministry of Education employs over 7000 people
(comprising more than one-third of civil servants), and there is little



- 123 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 3 of 6
basic documentation of the individuals' characteristics, job history, or
job location, as no records are systematically maintained. There is a
computerized file for the payment of salaries and of the various
indemnities linked to an individual's personal situation (indemnity for
teaching duty, lodging, dependents, job location, etc.). However, limited
possibilities exist for controlling the accuracy of this computerized file
due to a lack of information. Also, the responsibility for updating the
file is not clearly defined. As a consequence, Mauritanian officials
suggest that the wage bill could be inflated by as much as 5-10? due to
factors such as double payments for indemnities or payments to persons who
are no longer in service.  Considering that salaries represent about 752 of
the education budget, it is clear that readily available accurate
information on individual situations would yield substantial benefits.
Furthermore, this knowledge, if continually updated, would be of primary
importance in preparing provisional budgets to document the financial
implications of alternative potential policy options for the education
sector and to more efficiently manage the careers of this numerous
personnel.
8.        StrateRy and Work Program.  The DP will conduct a direct survey
of all employees of the Ministry of Education to establish reliable
individual records on aspects such as demographic characteristics, training
and employment records, and salaries and indemnities. The data thus
collected will be used to update existing manual records before being
computerized and compared to those available on salary payments.
Adjustments in the latter file will then be made to eliminate waste. The
manual and electronic files of the DP will be organized in such a way so as
to permit easy updating on a continuous basis as changes occur or
recruitments are made. To achieve this goal, relevant changes will be made
in the "circuit of information" within the Ministry of Education. In
particular, the present direct link between inspectors, prefets or
political power, on the one hand, and financial services on the other,
should be discontinued. All information required to update records should
be channelled through the DP, which would be given the central
responsibility as regards the updating of the payment file.
9.        Means.  The project would finance:  (a) furniture and equipment,
related particularly to the improvement of record-keeping 1/ ; (b) 12
man-months of specialist services to help develop and computerize personnel
records; (c) one local seminar per year for staff at the DREFs and 12
man-months of training abroad; and (d) recurrent costs to conduct a
complete census of all Ministry of Education staff during the first year of
project operation, cover travel costs (fuel) for field trips to update
files, and provide training. Table 3 summarizes the project's support for
the DP. Note: The computer equipment required will be provided by the
ongoing IDA-financed Development Management Project.
b:ann3-12.txt (am)
1/   Annex II.14 of the Project Preparation Document gives a list of the
equipment included.



Table 1: Planification et Gestion (Appui DPC/MEN)
(UM)
guantity                                                       Base Costs
Unit     1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 total  Unit Cost       1989         1990        1991         1992        1993      lotal
.. . . . .  . ..   .       - -   -  - - - -  . . . ...          .. .   .. . . . ..     .. . . .     .  .   . . .... .  -   - - -  ..  .   .. . ....... .
1. INVESImEuI cosis
A  fOUI PENINI NON PlOAOCGIqUE      1JUll         I                          I b.000,000    S. 000, 000                                                   5, 000.000
S. SERIICES SPECIAtISIES
P1IlIlICSIlUR 0UC            1OllltINOIS    12  12   12          -   3b    730.000    8.7bO.000   8.760,000   8.760.000                         - 2b.280,000
SptCiAtiSJtS CouRI IERINE     HItRIE/NOIS     6    B    6    6           24    803.000    4.818.000   4.818.000   4.818,000  4.818.000                19.272.000
Sub-lotaI SERUICES SPECIALISIES                                                              13. bin. 000  13. bS8. 000  13, bSb. 000  4.818.000         4b. bb2. 000
C  #o11UaION
tUURSES WilltE NI;                             9   is   18  18    9    12    14b.000    1. 314.000   2.b28.000   2.b28.000  2,b28,000  1. 314. 000  IO. b12. 000
CARIE SCOIAIRE                                                      -                        380.000     380.000                                         7bO. 000
Plius  pC / 0315                                                                             4S0. 000    4b0 000      4%00 000    40. 000    4bO.000   2. i0. 000
PARI SIN mi                                                                                  560. 000    5bO. 000       S60 000       SbO. 000     Sb0. 000   2. B0 000
Sib lotal IOR1NAIIIN                                                                          2.704.000   4.0t8.000   3.638,000  3.638.000  2.324.000  IG.322. 000
total INWISIENI COSIS                                                                           21.282,000  I7. 96i 000  17. 2b 000  8.#46.000  2.324.000  blit 874. 000
11. Illt0RREIII COStS
I .  .tURN  coi
A. ANNUIIE                                                                                     780.000     780.000      780. 000    780.0000    780.0000   3. 900. 000
total RECURRINI COSIS                                                                              780.000     780,000      780.000    780.000    780.000   3.900.000
folal                                                                                            22.062,000  18.376.000  17.99b.000  9.23b. 000  3. 104, 000  70. 774. 000
... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~..  .   .  . ..  .    . .  .  .
Haech 10. 1988  15.40
0 D



Table 2: Service Planificetion et Construction
(UM)
a...     US   ~~~~19  140    qa  is,    S"       .al f.t tM.. VrI      $410        iwo         *911       imp         ms       it.
I  tEVitICli costs
*ROM                                                    I'll                           2                               , em4t. an  . .  , .
"wa IIrlZZ  IttS15                                                   0to                                                          lo6              6na
*  ia ttiUmis                                                                            tol                             isilUlt  t11  a..iUtttl 
yme                                                     act,.An                                                        p   s   isa        116. ajo                   4" M4.a
S,&  liesamait Cottia/a                                                              tOs                              10    is aO          Is          o          lo                                pp aM
pnscta                                                    403l.t4le0          50              P0                      tO      } SlOt      t40,OPO                 300
tl0 Ct.t tI'm itSPIaI A    soewiM /am,.                                                                                       tans,. 7tto a..                       S0                           n.has.o
tatiwiotini.Ncia St littlI                               aamiat              P0              Xti                      *i    1Wto as.      520                    551.02*                           maw
1t03s4                                                  *llottiOi              I               I                       2   25. 220       n7. t70                 2m.no0                             44.0
tntlwli I fts11t1s1                                   VW PailctmI             20 70                                   40      a 040 no    I    0 no. am                                            2
S.,b t1,112 StilIlit i   _ZH0O                                                                                                                                        I                             1.5% ._
am  i.t.t s,1af,i111it  ami  neet  O                                                                                                       So. oat                 smaA064
Ittotw.l _u t                                         _ oSIt  Iiiatinaa                                                      a *  *           tl.oolk m    t
M e        7                                               u  t                                                         till  tll  2 I   0 t  ow                  of None.ti
mIltimi, ItiiiS I                                                                                                      i        I lt                               ?. twL                              a.
IattltlS / mil"tl                                          etitil              t                                       t   SPa Pa.           e 52050                                               sa
%WWAtit IJa                                               ISH                                  I                       I    noM             ). InJ.t1oO
l Ittuet                                                   1mi1 ll                    it      It                             asmI NO 7m   p7 des It7                                       am         sa
sm 1e.e.  etlwivSea  -      _ miut                                                                                                             1e"                    maw naMi. o._                     in
4 SlffittO  UwatCli ttI  amiteili
inlitct  , oiuanMe                                       ml/m it                        so           so      aWi   mM. pa a"3 up van                                 S"      if am      3       A0  tam
t0134  a                                                  iita,aim                    M               "      so        2      2%4           5240      in          n.240      M  M      In
teNeIica sNetOWIm  idni3i5                                                    es     isA      ioso    u       s       a      atoam       pm am       meo..       ,m    If   tm'*       pea...
m0.i  iniatos                                                                  i mif  t  i     i                       2      tm             a.7t S    7i W         trn                             2t a.M
tt l lowlolCl  Stoislil                                      _StiBl               M7  II ir tt                                                                     to N._9o I. oi Ull     $          t.W
Sml* i.t.t     " sayiS tctlilSltS Imoeittais                                                                                              a.,2r    ataaa              warn.W    ma        pm.L  am^  so" nItiS, am
S I ttcmik NMS       tlit Uittia as   tS  k.
l;lNDititi   i                                             ADS              2      1               12il    It SF7    titi    ss6 Oft tlCC            OtS        n_& ON                n._        tXntiO  
Ut     etutiia                                             m         7         d tit t                                          O t t C 7 J0  tan  am  jam    7tt    _  m_. M            tm    W M_
imsos aIl mit.1 mei                                                                  it      It      It      Ito             20.00  sunI  M                      SI Onsam iis.   On.    iLSa        mm0
Sea*^ tmiatil maStStimmei ,,Sl eits tets,aa.                                                    .      Ia              220    _.4                      ssa am    _a am   _wa             24 am       ma
am  i.t.t tamict *instttitl ina itoaiiia as ecolilsllt i.                                                                                                 mtn am      tlU am    am amit am Zam     rt m  amit
i         AnMcS sttmtct =DSIS               ii                                                                                                  nt 7i i  I" on 2s M     s  w    "M   tN la am    a  as p
tn gmati costs
I tensI e Ne1tmant
ftSSietimt                                             mm/IS                ni    ia    tn         is     io        rs           sa.m   _la        sum      ala am          t _m    sam        a.am.
hianiniw          mm/mis               is   es   ts   is   is    a.   am                           siam    saam    sam    sam                     am   v.am.am~~~~~~~~~~i. M  L=  ksm    a ew    a
Sai inicnim                                             in          t7 t7                    in i7 ionnn ts.am                           to am       em am      am am    to. am        wow  tiar
a  me .a mam                                                                                                                                       a.a           am  am    am am. .. ... am. ........
I  MtK im.Ae  I eniettnllF    " iMetaltl
sIttlS        m                                                                                                                                                                           M
Sw it                                                                                                                                      porn       OI_  ta lm  e  tlariC ni   n 7tm   7am       sc..Z ti iacnt
ase=t. I                                                                                                                                     O       Sam         see    wa             ur%ta
am  i.t.   mtuIwIt eatmtia                                                          `1tUiPmei                                            It9 4we        I" 0         O 1*40  a  as.          0 pat . aMs
s imitimuwatiON  .i catic  tin  mutnttS
n        KI IsmCI  l I isletI llut PM                        coi  Ct    a 0                                                                .am at am            to     a_n Sa"   M t   _am M
S lo"l I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn uartm am am                                                                                         ati am"   na  am.l ,al amt  s tim am t.*
s0   nt.t.  eatie mfa   , enuti  Nan   i7   t                                                                                                                              ;ait7i ot   s             tt;tta................                    .
am  i.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.tcns im mne                                                                   tin  ma   timi ma   i  i7 ttapo  7 i lt 429     mti as.Z   trt  am
t ,b foist #at%            $i t2 uma
i.t.t    iitlts t ltlitS                                                                                                                              aml  is t,i       is tam            ma     am  ma aIW
"M t aw Ncistt otvltXtis tooit tle
r.00 aN"  *Pls I Sofclotti I k nP"It
7@7oll                   Istntnl     11 t m " omnt



Table 3: Appui au Bureau du Personnel -
Ministere de l'Education Nationale
(UM)
ttint It y                                                        Bese Costs
Unit      1989 1950 1991 1992 1993 loaS   Unnit iost            5989          1990       1995       1992      1993       total
.                                                                                ... ..  ... ...   .    .  .. . . . .: .. .. . .... .... .. . .... .... . .. . .. ..   . . . . .  . . .
I  It4SuiS    tosis
......... . . ..
A  t0t1lltR111 It SQUIPiNiNt NOtt  FtDGOiIQtIt                                                                                     1O. YOOO. 000                                             10. 900.000
8. SiRVICtS SPICISlSTtS                                           ININF11l30S      8    4                        1?    730.000    5.840.000  2.920.000                                        8.700.000
C  IORIAI IDOt
IOtitNt I0  S t titSStAKtR                                    IJmi/^itS         4    4    4                  12    14b1 000        b84. 000    6554.000  b64.000                           1. 72. 000
Stl11it1RtS 1OCAUI                                               ut593I I    I    I                    I      5     120. 000       120. 000    10. 000  120. 000  120. 000  120 000         80.000
Si*ilotal IORNAIION                                                                                                                    704.000      104.000  104.000  120 000  120 000   2. 35  000
lolul InvLSiNINS COSIS                                                                                                                 17. 444. 000  J. 624. 000  704.000  120. 000  120.000  22. 012. 000
11  RtWRt5tl1  IUsis
A  OlPtACttNiN  I CttiPRIS RlEftt. SLMtNli  PLtttStttl LU itt                                                                        S00.000 1OO    tA  000  152. 000  12b. 000  12S 000         000. 000
lotal RtCURBitl41 COSIS                                                                                                                    OO,O000     12S.000  12S. 000  I2. 000  52.000    5.000.000
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  . .     ...  .   .. ....
505555                                                                                                                                  57.944 .000  3. 749 000  829.000  245. 000  246.000        1 02. 000
March 10. 1958 16 40
1b
nw _
0W 



- 127 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Support to Strengthen the Human Resources Divisions in the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and in the Ministry of Fisheries
1.        Obiectives.  This component aims at enhancing the Government's
capability to coordinate the activities of the various institutions in
charge of human resource development (schools, public and private training
centers, institutions of higher education at home and abroad), and
rationally utilize those trained (in the civil service, parastatals,
private firms and the informal sector). To this end, the project will help
to: (a) create a Human Resources Unit in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance; and (b) strengthen the newly created Directorate of Human
Resources in the Ministry of Fisheries. Outside the project, the UNDP
would establish a Manpower Planning Unit in the Ministry of Labor.
Creation of a Human Resources Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance
2.        Background.  The Ministry of Economy and Finance is currently
being reorganized with the assistance of the World Bank's Institutional
Development Project. As part of this reorganization, a Human Resources
Unit will be created. This Unit will coordinate data collection on various
aspects of human resources and consolidate them into an analytical
policy-oriented framework. The Unit's objective is to establish a
consistent, overall human resources development strategy and to monitor
further adjustment over time. The Unit will play a pivotal role in
determining ways through which the education and training system can
respond more adequately and efficiently to labor market demands. It will
also ensure consistency between the country's sectoral development
strategies and macroeconomic policies (development projects, labor
regulations, taxation, agreement for investment, etc.) with human resources
development so as to foster economic development, productivity gains and
job creation.
3.        Strategy.  So far, little planning has actually taken place in
the various ministries. The activities of the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination (DFC) in the Ministry of Education are largely limited to the
collection of regular school statistics (cf. Annex 3-12). There is no
regular collection and analysis of cost and financial data, and few
education and manpower planning activities have been developed. Little is
known as regards how well the education and training system responds to
labor market needs as no tracer studies exist. With regard to the labor
market, some of the most basic statistics are not collected at all, and
there is little analysis of available data. In this context, the most
urgent task is to: (i) determine an overall framework for carrying out
routine monitoring of human resource development; and (ii) initiate the
relevant data collection and analysis to be conducted. The primary role of



128 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 3
the Human Resources Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be to
promote such studies to be carried out in relevant parts of the
administration.
4.        Means.  The lroject will finance a total of 27 man-months of
technical assistance to help establish the Human Resources Unit, initiate
studies and train Mauritanian counterparts. The technical assistance
includes a long-term umbrella contract with a foreign institution (l8
man-months spread over the first four years of the project) to render
assistance in a variety of activities within a unified approach in order to
ensure quality and continuity of the arrangement. The remaining nine
man-months of technical assistance are for recruitment of short-term
consultants. The project also provides funds with which the Unit can
contract out for inputs from other government agencies and for organization
of training activities and seminars. The project will also finance the
purchase of materials and small equipment for the Unit's operation.
Strengthening the Human Resources Directorate in the Ministry of Fisheries
5.        Background.  About two-thirds of the 6,900 persons employed in
the industrial fishing fleet operating in Mauritanian waters are
foreigners. A medium-term objective of the country is to increase the
share of Mauritanians in this occupation. To this end, the Maritime
Training Center (CFPM) (to be strengthened under the project, cf.
Annex 3-11) will train and upgrade Mauritanian seamen. More specialized
training will also be provided through studies abroad. New activities,
such as control over fishing operations and surveillance of the maritime
zone, will require the availability of qualified staff. The fact that
these are new activities accentuates the need to plan and monitor carefully
over time, and to make appropriate adjustments in, e.g., related curricula,
and the number and characteristics of trainees. Adjustments will be made
through a continuous assessment of the outcome of training activities
through their impact on Mauritanian sailors. An additional activity is to
analyze labor market conditions and the behavior of both trainees and
employers so as to assess whether or not exiating rules and regulations, as
well as incentive structures, need to be revised.
6.        Strategy and work program.  The Human Resources Directorate will
have three major tasks: (a) to assess overall training needs in the
Fishery Sector and develop strategies for how to best meet these needs;
(b) to monitor training given at the Maritime Training Center (CFPM); and
(c) to monitor training of staff in the Ministry of Fisheries in charge of
administering, controlling and monitoring the sector. As regards the CFPM,
the Directorate will carry out ex-post evaluations of training activities
so as to determine changes and adjustments to be made over times how to
better select trainees, how to better organize complementarities between
on-the-job training and training within the Center, both for upgrading
courses and pre-employment courses. To this end, tracer studies will be
organized. As regards the training of staff in the Ministry of Fisheries,
the Directorate will conduct an analysis of the content of jobs to be
performed and will determine task-related training to be undertaken.



- 129 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 3 of 3
7.        Means.  The project will help strengthen this Directorate by
financing: (a) equipment and furniture; (b) 12 man-months of specialist
services, labor market niplyses and training of Mauritanian counterparts;
and (c) funds for the organization of national seminars on aspects related
to training and employment in the Fishery Sector.
S.        The table below summarized the support provided under the rroject
for the two Human Rosource Units.
Human Resource Un.t. Ministry of Finance            Base Costs
(UM '000)
1.   Specialist services (18 man-months of
long-term assistance)                           13,140
2.   Short-term consultants (9 man-months)             7,227
3.   Funds for preparation of studies and
organization of seminarslworkshops                5,550
4.   Equipment and furniture                           2.000
Total Ministry of Finance                       27,867
Human Resource Directorate. Ministry of Fisheries
1.   Specialist services (12 months, long-term)        8,760
2.   Travel and per diem (including travel of
specialists to Nouadhibou)                       1,500
3.   Funds for organization of national
seminars on training and manpower
issues in the Fishery sector                     1,000
4.   Equipment and furniture                           4.000
Total Ministry of Fisheries                     15,260
b:ann3-13.txt
(am)



- 130 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Proiect Cost and Financing
1.        Basis of Costs Estimates.  Project costs are based on February
1988 prices at appraisal. Cost estimates for primary school
construction/rehabilitation are based on the experience of similar
construction completed in the past five years and the recent prototype of a
low-cost classroom developed by UNESCO (BREDA) in Mauritania, using locally
produced gypsum. Other cost estimates for works and goods are based on
recent international tenders in Mauritania or in the region for similar
types of construction and goods with adjustment for regional cost
differences. The average cost per month of internationally recruited
services (US$12,000-US$13,200. including salary, overhead and subsistence),
locally recruited specialists and consultants (US$2,000-US$5,200),
scholarships abroad (US$2,000), and internationally recruited volunteer
specialists (US$1,600) are based on updated standards for computing budget
estimates for projects financed by UNDP and other United Nations sources.
2.        Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of the project is US$Z8.S million (76Z of the total project
cost), and is the result of the following estimated foreign exchange
percentages for the individual categories of expendituress
Civil works (general contracts)                     602
Civil works (school construction contracts)         602
CommunitylPrivate sector inputs                     0o
School furniture                                    50Z
Non-pedagogical materials and supplies             100?
International specialists                         100?
Local/National specialists                          o0
Training -broad                                    100o
Local training                                       02
Operating costs                                     802
3.        Customs. Duties and Taxes.  Project cost estimates do not include
duties or taxes. During negotiations, the Government will confirm tha. the
project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
4.        Contingencies Allowances.  Project cost estimates include
physical contingencies of: (a) 102 for the civil works, rarniture,
non-pedagogical equipment and pedagogical materials and supplies; and
(b) 5? for specialist services, training and operating costs. Allowances
for annual price escalations are as followst



- 131 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 2 of 6
Proiected Annual Price Escalation Rates
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
Foreign Costs       3.02       3.02      4.02       4.02      4.0Z
Local Costs          6.0Z      6.02      4.0Z       4.02      4.0Z
At these rates, total physical contingencies are estimated at US$2.5
million (82 of total base costs) and price contingencies at US$4.3 million
(142 of total base costs).
5.        Proiect Cost and Financina Plan.  An IDA credit of US$18.2
million and a loan of US$17 million equivalent from the African Development
Bank (AfDB) would be provided towards financing the project. Parallel
cofinancing plans were agreed during the joint-appraisal mission and will
be confirmed before negotiations. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit would be that all conditions necessary for an initial disbursement
of funds from AfDB have been met. Table 1 shows the project cost by
category of expenditures and project component. Table 2 shows project cost
by component.  Table 3 shows project cost by category of expenditure.
Table 4 shows the financing plan by component.
b:ann3-14.txt
(min)



Table 1: Som!U Acount by ProjeOct Component
(UK)
4wSIteIem I    as4wmAIu K  111114&m10t KS0    1tIL1                  UII4wIt         (WAIsQ40I         tomi 1411   01(30005 us  baS    1142014w   a          mI      ,   imaimiim 
1111111101u101  It suite M    u9sooomcs Ao          llama.           "MlOPIsO          1aCm14VA     iONEIOMaaa               tc              INOATgION        tem            "me
emolest bi3                                              0,00
is*logos baltliS                                            in.2000        7.0so00         in. 240 000       W2. 310. 000    120 214.400      102.02237110     1000  00. ON421000
0.teailO  ICB 000006104 00000,
i1111Womisut                                               OI. No2040
ini10aiI   0000                                          43400.000         74"00.4w         o M00. 000                        fb J1.           0."Iri 0.14M.0         S*04         S.70on0                                             m
tarn..,i rn  00of 0I                                     2.0.w            1004w           I  0.4            41  4                                                                                    002.0            004            .4.4
4w01OOI                                                  S.0 030551     90.. 4W           15.020.000                          9.030.000       J  o 6            .M   wc4.001 1.O
100100400  0000001                                          0. M40.IW0                    Ii 400             00 374o4w                       0  M0 000        2794w 000          40,404 M00.M
OMCIhI4 Mai3tO     E 50t5i00ff    so52lo                  1. SOL 4    000 ?is a". No          740 o 900        01.3 30        S3.440.1 ON      140403001        t 9o  N04         0.40 16000         IL 092w       30174. Of3210"O   S    014 o
007001  00000i0i40                                                      oh.3. 921..000                                          6   G
0001,1.1 OOIOsCOO  s10101000                               0,394             M.w 4w0       3.04 000            037 340        12. M. 000        7.003o 007         n  ON404       00. 40.No            20 049w     317w 0.0.
000001si0 rAttl  EA I                                      .on00         I 51000  04  000                     4027 00  300 N   5l 06L.4                         2 1.7.0  tN 104w   34w 6 4w             me4 200
SHMA 109 U100 1 bOll                                      247 1.1141064w   700.7314w        30400.010         502 02 04        243.4"1..000        "J479"V7      0 4.00.ON         200000.ON          at. 29.7so    4S 527 4w        V 1I4.10
Sk*lCa l 5(10003 Cmol                                        0,4wAIII  . no  504 Go.          20  4.  Nol31?402.41lOI.4"w                                         ? S.4     N116. 4w. on                 514 030 a"23 n                n 3W. U4
telal  01a1l0   COlS                                      20.79.w           10. 730.4       30017 00            4W027, M       342492 000       31  71  70        044 004          S1. 0004wM         5409M.4 4GOO4                   300
#~~ilm tocaki                            123. 10.00        17. 093.         200403             44   4 2004.00                   i  000           470w               4204w0*.04 N                      4042I          7 1..1
StWoloOft (IlqWl00N                                        0 3.20047        30. on.2on       4400700           20 570 072       to.4.42          237020           0.313.04.         39.l7,l0000. M                    3070a,21 No40
loC.l QL=Mi    OS (41                                        290,2M.  2N100,07472              313900            i   l.0           0  2   3 ,00.10 IS                  00Its. 4ON2            W 1         4,01.2042      02w            107 0240N
loW  0sgs.  CMI                                             PA,k  I3. No7i   210.130.410      240 174.014       101.0703 040     23.410423.           002bo 31.011731b U 032073      "S. Ga. me         $4k03*0.M0    40.0770          II) 11". 
*'5  5.i 5100  54.4A3"                                                        11   AS          2.614 b            4.4.4               G.o           1QLS                11.40         2.112,S              4L           2 1,V6            .S 11
Pe MoGWAIRW In  *. n&4n  30242.02  44 "I. 07      20111.02         n. N. 42         35.TO& 2         1131.04.           L "L  tll          L to.GM       3111111.1flo    n. 14.          0'



Table 2: Project Cost Summary
(UN)                                     Wh
..   .     . ..   ......                                              .....   ......... , , .   .....   ItSS
I lota)
tocct         foreign          lotal         local       tor stn      Total      E     dactml    e6ts
4. ElPMSION El ANELI 0O8130  DE L ENSEIGNEtENt PRIHlIRE
..   .. . . . .......      ....    .................. .
1. CONSRuCIION / REII*8i31tillIDH                                                                      1t4 094. E0       ot. 84. 400    255.979.000  2. 22.515 13 403. 3E    3.25 U.2             40        12
2. AUELIOSI1i3N DE LA QUALIIE  /J                                                                        46.022.000    164.717.000    210. 739.000       633.902   2 26. M2s   2. 02. 74           is       9
3. UltlSarIa. PLUS R*tIONNEtLtS OES RESSOURCES  /b                                                       88. 013. 220    202, 63. 790    290. 177.010   . 212. 303   2 784  262   3. "S. 929      7*       13
S%b-lotal EXPANSION El NEtLIORAION DE I ENSEIGNCENEI P9N1I*RE                                              288. 229.820    468.7t5. 190    756.89M.010  3.968.730   6.4S6.821  10.425.SS1             62       34
8.  NEtIOAI3I3N EIFICACIIE INIENE LI ELAERUE OE L EOUCAIION SECDO9IRE El SUPERIEURE
......................................   -.1.................................. .................................   ....... ..........    ..............
t. HOSEIGNtNEtI DES SCIENCES   SECONDAIRE                                                                20,924. 000    IJ2. 679. 840 o   3. 03. 840     28.20s   t. 627.546   2. 36. 755          6        7    1
2. ENSEICtEtINI DES SCIENCES   SUPERIEURE                                                                s0,126.760    193,367.800    243.493. 560    690.437   2.663.468   3.3S3.906              73       to
3. RES1RULCIUR*TION ElSEICGtENENt  TEC3NIoUE                                                             44.689,487    270. 307. s88    314,797.37S    615. S66   3.720.494   4.336.062            N8       4
4  REFORCEtENIt FORtAIION PROFESS3OUNEIiE                                                                 4.960.000      49, 0SO. 000     64Soo.,000      68. 132     682.507       M60.689        9t       2    t
6. fORmIION PROIESSIOIIEIEE SECIEUR DES PEClIES  Ic                                                      35. 370, 000    340, 316.000    375, 68,.000    487.190   4.61,67534   6. 174. m          91       t7    W
Stl-lotal ANUEORAI10N E3fiCACIIE INlTERi El EXIERtE OE t cRUCA333N SECOINAIRE El SUPERIEURE               156.099.247    986.020.528  .t. 142,079.776   2.3 49.76  13.s8t.s0  3s.731. 126            86       3
C. RElNfOCENtIt CAPACIME PtLAIFCAT110  El GESTION AU HIVE3 U CENlRAt
... .   .  . . . . . ..  . . . . . .  . .  .... ..  .. .. .  ... .. .
I Pt4lIflCAIIOU El GESIlON Ru W INISIERE DE I EDUCATION                                                  14.371,420    t26.86s.449    141.036.869    3SS. 199   t.747.4s8   t.942.6s7              90       6
2. COoRO3N*o0N FQARIOlNu / EPPLOI                                                                          3.000.000     42,.27.000      43,127. 000     33.774      N80.262      694.036         96       2
3  UIHIE Of COORD91A*3   Deu PROJET                                                                      42.917.950      96.035.914    137.953.864    693. 366   3.3log. 03s   3.S00.9             69       6
S ioola  REHFORCENtEI CAPACIIE PL*N3FICAIION El GESTI ON AU NIVEAU CENIRA4                                  S8. 089,370    264.028 363    322. 117.733    8o0 .29   3. 636.76    4.436.8WI            82 36
lotal BASELINE COSIS                                                                                         so2.278.437  1.718.814.0 1  2.221.092,518  6.9st.436  23.615. 32s  30.S33.561              77      300
Physical Continge .s,                                                                                      4?2.383.435    340. 06.960       83. 389.386   5683. 794   1.939.476   2.523.270          11        8
Price Contngepncues                                                                                       3050674.999    208,040.366    313. 6. 354   1. 44.20t    2. 6.570   4. 39.771              64,      34
lotal P60.ECI COSIS                                                                                         6MO.236.871  2.067 660,386  2.137.697.257  &.56,431  28.480.373  37.436.860)               7i       322
. .............................   ................ .. ....  .......
Ma  IPRMSSION  NIIIUELS FiNt4    .P8AlUELS El RICMCEAGE FINHIDA
lb  UtSLE VAAIIeIL. Ei R l1low. DREfS
/c fRAIS ROICI3owiENEUi fINt:lDA3.U. PR3V1.04831
.....................   ..............................       .....    ..    .........    ..................    . . . .    .............  ..    ..   .. ...    ...    ....  .    . ..................... ..... ...... .. .......
pri l IU. 1988 4.43
IIy



Table 3: Summary Accounts9 Cost Summary
WE)                                                      IUSSI
I foreign  ease                                                  Base.g   6,
Local        foreign         toabl      Eactisng.  Costs     Local      foreign      2obal    Lactiange   Costs
I. INVESIRNEII cCsiI
cOUbAis OEhIOAUI                                        193. 535, 267    290. 302.901    403.838., 268  60       22   2. 665. 775   3,998.663  6. 664,438       50      22
couImAbs ECOLES                                         39.025.000      39.025.000     78.050.000        50       4     537.534     537.534   2.075.069         50       4
A2908! COSINAITAIBE                                      78.050.000              -     7. 050,000                 4   2.015,069                2. 015. 08.       -       4
Si6-2otu2 COISIRUCJIO2I                                    310. 610. 267    329.327,902    639. 938. 168    52      29   4.278. 378   4. 536. 197  8.8a24. 575     52      29
8. 10821168 El EOtIIPENEAI NON   PtLOAGMEQU
VLSIICULES                                                              45.180.000     45. 780.000      200       2                  630,579     630.579       t0o       2
(NfoBIAI loutf                                                             835.009        835,009       t00       0                   11. %02     21.502       100      .0
NoSILIEB SCOLAIBE                                       34,780,000      34.780.000     69. 560.000       50       3     479,063      419.063     956.1227       s0       3
EQUIPNENET HON  PEOACGNIQUE                                             80.058.000     80.068.00 2N 00            4                2.2042.865   2,2102.86 M100           4
Sib-lotal NOSILIEEl tEOUIPLEUEI NOE  PEOAGOG2OtSf          34. 780.000    161,463.009    196.243.009       62       9     479.063   2.224.008   2.703. 072        812      8.
C. IIA2IELI PE0AC0GIQUE
NAIIIELS PEOAGOO200S                                                   205. 610.000    205.050, 000     100       b 5               ,455. 520   2. 455.5lb0    t00       S
FOMUNITUBES PIDAIMMUEUS                                           .    137, 630. 000    137. 630.000    100       6                1.895. 730   2.85. 730      t00       6
&04U1P1N&NT GENERAL PI0AGOO0UE                                         363.214.000    363.214,ooo       200      1&                5.002.948   5.002.948       t00      28
SiAtitotal NAILBIEI PEOAGIOG)*I                                           60,5. 14.000    606.514.000      200      27                8.354, 281  8.,354. 287     200,    27
0. SERVICES SMEIAtIIIes
SPECIALISIES INIEANA2IOUAII                                            366.249.522    366.249.512       t00      26                5.044.759   S. 044.759      200      26                            4
SPECIAL ISlES HAlICHAIX                                 51. 807. 6                     57. 607. 850               3     793. 497                 193. 497        -       3
EAPERIS v0oEINAI8RES                                                    22. 922.00     12.922. 800       200       2                  ?71. 983   277. 983      200        I
Sib-total SIRVICES SPECIALisIES                             :17. 607.850    379. oil.2M  436. 778. 981      87      20      793.491  5.222.143   6.016.239         81      20
E. 10822*110
FOATI2AIN A i ElBAMIIE                                                  44.029.280     44.029.MG 28      00       2                  606. 453    560.453       200       2
IOMIIIU  LOCALE                                         49. 703. 200                   49. 703. 200               2     684.525                  684.616                 2
Sib-lotat FOMATIIC                                          49. 703.1200    44.029. 180    93.732.280       41       4      684. 526    606.463   1.291.078        47       4
lotal lIWVLS2nEHI COSIS                                      452. 702,2217  2.620.5605.201  1.973.208.428      77      89   6.235.554  20.943.598  27.2179. 152       77      89
Phbrsic.l Conttnpflces                                      39.904.574    230.890.508    I   M7.75080       77       8      M40.650   1.882.900   2.352.%42        ?7       a
Price Contingeuices                                        94.063,885    278. 621.984    270.675,849        85       22   1.29M.646   2.432,672   3.728.317        6        122
lotal 121CL3022 CONI2HGUNCIES                               586.589.676  2.8028, 007.671 2.414. 677.347       76      t09   S.0O0.850s  25. 279.289s 33. 26. 029     76      200
2I PECIJRRENI costs
A. 1425t 10NC220s211NU22                                   49.577.220   I298. 308.880    247.586.200o      so       22    682.882   2. 731.5627   3.414. 400      80       22
lotal RL2IcuRBII  Costs                                       49.517.,220    298. 358.880    24 7.8S"8.200     80       22    582.882   2.732.527   3.414.409         80      22
PhtyslcalI Cant 2npmn2es                                     2.478.861      9,915.444     22.394.3Jos       80        2      34. 144    136.576     270,720        80 -   I
Price Conti gurcies                                         22.522. 224    31. 428.392    42.939.505        73       2      258.55S5    432.898     52. 453        73       2
Total 222CL2202G COUTINGENCIES                                63.567.1295    239. 652. 726    303.219.910      i9       24    M1.582g   3.301. 002   4.2176.583       79      IC
lotal BASELIINE COStS                                         502.278.437  2. 718,814. 082  2.221.092.528       77      200   6.918,436  23.575b. 22n  30,5b93.581     77      200
Phps cal Coni jgllic .,                                      42. 383. 435    240.805.950    283. 289. 385    77       a     58. 704   1.939.416   2.523 270         77       8
Pr ice Conlsinganicu                                        20s5,s.574. S"  208 .04. 355    313. 625.354     66       14   1,454.201  2,86i. 570   4, 329.17?2      88       14                    UA
fatal POO,IC2 COStS                                            650.236.871 2, 087,660.386  2.7I27. 897,257      76      222   8.95b.432  28.480. I7I 37,4.36.Go2       lb    1222
April 2 . 1988 24:43



Table 4: Financing Plan by Project Components
(US$)
ASsOCIAI IO1
IN,lE,URAIIONtE DE  8ANQOut AVIEICAINt  Dl  COMMLCIIVIklS I
DEVEIOPPEtEtI         DEVEIOPPfEtNI        SfClfUR PQ1V E    IAlI NMRIIANILt          lotal
niM~t       2         *nWI         2.   ~        Lnt    i      Amn          I       Am un      I
A. EXP4tSIOl El ANIlIORAIION OE t ENSEIGNIIENt PRItAIRE
.. ...... ...... . ...   . .........    ..............     .. . .
I CONSIRUCIJON R REHNABILIIAI ON                                                                              3.077.344   68                              1.433.599  32        27. 159      1    4.638.102   12
2. ANEtIOURIlON DE LA QUAiTE  /a                                                                               1.924.381   54        1,t03.837      45                          33.41a      1    3.561.636   10
3. UJIlISATIOSI PLUS RBAIONNELtES DES RESSOURCES  hb                                                           4.890. 42   98                 -                                  7. 475     2    4.9?7.9,5    13
Sl-1oljl EXPANSION El AhEIIORBIION DE I ENSEIGNfNENI PRIMAIRE                                                     9.892.207   76         1.603.837     12    1.433. 99   It       14a.0s2       1   13.077.695   35
S. AtELIOOII01 EFFICACIJE INtERNE El  llERiNE DO t EOUCAIION SECONDAIRE El SUPKRIEURE
I  ENSEIGCElENt DES SCIENCES - SECOlDAIRE                                                                               -            2.S9B.04S   100                                             2.s98.045    7             w
2. EUSEIUNEMENI OES SCIENCES - SUPfRIEURE                                                                                            4.160,32t   100                                 0      0    4*160.327   It             U
3  NESTRUCIURAIION ENS!EIGIEENt IECNtQUI                                                                                *.229.369    100                                                          5.229.369    14
4. RNFORCEHEtI GRANATIOh PROFESSIONiNEL&                                                                         S90,9S1  tO O90. 9   1    2
S. fORIUIIOl PMOfESSIONELtlE SECTE6R DES PECKES  /c                                                            2.241.473   36        3.400. 02    SS         135. 329   2      425.039      7    6.202.343    17
Su-lol.l *MtlOO*IIDOI LMIC*CIIE  INIERNE El EXlERlE DO   EDUCAIION SECO9IIDIRE Lt SUPtRIEURE                      3.132,424   Iti       15.3U.243    SI         135.329    1      42S.039      2   19.051.03S   Si
C  RENfORCENENI CAPACIIE PtAMtifiCATION El GESIION IU 11V1*U CENIRAL
. . . .... ... .. ...... ..........  . .....    .... I. . .  . .     .... .
I  PLANIfICAIION El  tS1104 DU NINISIERE DE I EDUCAIIOI                                                      2.2SS.743   99                                                    30. 434          2.286.177    b
2. COORDINATION tOAITIOAN / E1PLOI                                                                               682.680  100                                                                       682W. l     2
3  UNITE KO COOODINAtIOI OU PROtEI                                                                             2.231.342   97                                                    7. 673     3    2.309.015    6
Sub-Total RINFORCENIN  CAPACIIE PLANIIICAVIOU El GESIIII AU NIVEAEU CEtRAl                                       6. 169.764   98                                                 t0.107       2    5.277.871    14
lotal Disbjrsimnl                                                                                                  IS, 194. 395   49      15.992.080    46      1.668.928   4       681. 19       2   37.436.iO1I  100
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~                 z 0 ,  :    =   z                   .  .   .  ..  .      . . 
..  .     . . .  ..  .. .   .. .   ..   . .. .  .. .. ....   ....... . . .   .. . . ..   . .. . .  . .. .  . . . .   ..   ..   .
/a  It.RESSION  lUtUEIS iN  6AD.IWiUELS El RtCILAGE flHI10A
/b  DOUStE VICAIION. ENI D AIOUN. OREfS
/c  FRAIS fONCIIOtIINEINI fIlIDA1.SI. PROVI 04831
..   .. . . . . . . . . .  . ....   .....   . . ...   . .   .. ...   ...          ..   . . . ..   .. . .        ...     .. .   ...... ..   ..  .  ..   .   .   .  ..   ..  ...
Aril I1. 1988  14:43
i y
4Pt 



- 136 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 8
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Summarv of Recurrent ExPenditures and Cost Savings
Generated by the Proiect
1.        General.  'Table 1 gives rough estimates of cost savings and
incremental expenditures generated by the pro,ect. The assumptions behind
the calculations are explained below and in the notes to this table. In
interpreting the results shown in this Annex, it should be borne in mind
that, while the estimates of incremental expenditures probably reflect
quite closely the likely effects of the project on the Government's
recurrent budget, the estimates of cost savings are likely to understate to
a considerable extent the beneficial effects of the project. At least five
factors contribute to such an underestimation. First, the beneficial
effects of factors such as pedogogical equipment, textbooks, in-service
teacher training, improved planning and management, changes in curriculum
on labor productivity and labor market, impacts of training for the fishing
industry on income and foreign exchange, etc., are difficult to quantify
and have not been included. These effects are believed to be substantial.
Second, the impact of many of these factors will mainly be felt after the
completion of the project. Third, some effects, e.g., the benefits from
developing improved low-cost primary school construction techniques, will
accrue directly to local communities as the Government does not finance
school construction. Fourth, measures designed to promote private
education will allow for the achievement of higher enrollments for a given
public budget. Finally, the considerable restructuration in the use of
physical facilities promoted through the project will permit efficiency
gains and major savings on capital investments in years to come, especially
in higher education.
2.        Disregarding benefits of the above type, the estimates shown in
this Annex suggest that the project would result in net incremental
recuri:ent expenditures for the Government ranging from UH 47.6 million in
1987 to UM 152.0 million in the first year after project completion (1994).
Expressed as a percentage of the 1988 education budget, these costs
represent, respectively, a 1.4S and 4.5Z budget increase. As shown in
Table 1, the incremental costs are largely explained by the targetted
annual increase of.9S in the recurrent budget for primary education.
3.        Analysis.  The first section of the table provides estimates of
the financial impact of the measures included in the Sectoral Adjustment



- 137 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 8
Program 1, to be implemented in the course of the project. The first four
Measures of this Program -- relating to the containment of expenditures and
enrollment in secondary and higher education -- will lead to cost savings.
In order to illustrate the order of magnitude of savings generated by the
first measure -- i.e., maintaining, at the 1987 level, scholarships in
general secondary education, teacher training and higher education -- it
has been assumed that in the absence of this measure, these scholarship
budgets would have grown at the same rate as the overall budget (32
annually). Estimated savings for Measure 2 are based on the assumption
that, in the absence of this measure, the budget would have grown at an
average of 62 per year.
4.        The savings generated by the two measures relating to
restrictions on budget growth in the first and second cycles of general
secondary education have been istimated as the difference between
continuing the budget growth experienced during the period 1981-88 (52
annually in real terms) and the growth implied by the Adjustment Program,
i.e.. 3Z for the first cycle, 22 for the first three years for the second
cycle, and 12 for the remaining period for the second cycle.
5.        The fifth Measure of the adjustment program (i.e., a 92 annual
increase in the primary education budget) would require additional
resources for primary education as compared to a continuation of past
trends in budget allocation for this level of education. The additional
resources required during the project to reach this target have been
estimated as the difference between continuing the 3Z annual increase (in
real terms) achieved during the period 1981-88 and the attainment of a 92
annual real increase. Assuming that a further reallocation of funds in
favor of primary education (other than that implied by Measures 1-4 above)
is not advisable, these additional resources would have to be made
available through an increase in total resources available to the education
sector. If the government budget were to increase annually by 32 (the
hypothesis on which these simulations are based), this would imply an
increase in education's share of the government budget, from 22.42 to 24.62
in 1993.
6.        Measure 6 (limitation of total enrollment in the ISS) would not
have any immediate cost saving effect, as present enrollment is well below
this ceiling. As regards Measure 7 (to improve the control and management
of the Ministry of Education staff to eliminate current waste), Government
officials estimate that possibly as much as 102 of the annual salary budget
for primary and secondary education is wasted through double payments of
salaries and indemnities, and through payments to people who are no longer
working in the sector. The estimated savings shown in Table 1 is based on
the hypothesis that: (a) the total waste amounts to 52 of the salary
1/ The Sectoral Adjustment Program is outlined in para. 3.2 of the report
and in Annex 3-1.



- 138 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 3 of 8
budget; and (b) through updating and computerization of personnel records,
it would be possible to gradually eliminate such waste by the end of the
project at an accumulated rate of one percentage point per year to reach
the full 5Z saving in 1993.
7.        As regards Measure 8 (reduction of foreign teaching staff) in
1987, Mauritania had about 340 foreign teachers in all types of secondary
education (20Z of the teaching force) and 127 in higher education (492 of
the total permanent teaching force). Of these, 98 teachers in secondary
education and 84 in higher education were recruited on local contracts; the
rest were technical assistants provided through bilateral assistance. The
financial effects of a gradual Mauritanization of teachers in higher
education has been taken into account when estimating the cost savings
generated by maintaining constant the recurrent budget for higher education
(cf. para. 1 above). As regards secondary education, the approximate
comparative annual costs to Mauritania of recruiting, respectively, a
Mauritanian teacher, a technical assistant teacher and a foreign teacher
recruited on local contract, are as follows (figures in UM);
Salarl         Housing Allowance    Total
Mauritanian               357,800              60,000          417,800
Technical Assistant             0             450,000          450,000
Local contract            547,500             450,000          997,500
In view of the fact that there is a surplus of Mauritanian teachers in
general secondary education, but a shortage in technical education, the
Mauritanian Government is planning to gradually shift new technical
assistant contracts from the former to the latter type of education, and to
limit sharply the use of foreign teachers recruited under local contracts.
The cost savings shown in Table 1 assume a gradual phasing out of all 98
teachers recruited on local contracts by the end of the project , i.e.,
replacement of 20 foreigners by Mauritanian per year which yields an annual
net savings of about 20 x (997,500 - 417,800) UM - UM 11.7 million.
8.        As regards Measure 9 (to increase internal efficiency), the
project investments in factors such as textbooks, pedagogical equipment and
supplies, in-service teacher training and improved management are all
expected to improve the internal efficiency of the school system (e.g.,
reduce repetition and dropout rates and improve student achievement).
However, since these benefits are difficult to quantify, no estimates for
cost savings have been entered in the table.
9.        To the extent Measure 10 helps expand privately-financed
education, it would permit Mauritania to achieve a higher enrollment ratio
for the same level of public spending. However, no attempt has been made
to estimate possible savings.
10.       The effects of Measure 11 (increasing the contributions of
parents and local communities to school construction and training
materials) have been dealt with under point 2.1 of the table.
b:ann3-15.txt
(min)



Table 1: Cost Savings and Incremental Expenditures Generated by the Project
(in million UM)
-----------------------------------------------------------------___----------___-_-_- ---------------------------------------------------------_
PROJECT COMPONENT              I                      COST SAVINGS                            I                    INCREMENTAL EXPENDITURES
I                                           1  1989      1996  11991  1992              1993   19941   19891   1990   1991  1992                        1993   119941
1. IPACT OF SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT           I         I         I          I         I          I         ll          l         l          I         l                    I
PROGRAM                               I          I         I          I         I         I          II         I          I         I
I    1.1 Maintain the total annual          I  85.4  I  65.9  I  72.9   I  92.6  I 112.7   I 112.7  II    0    ;                      a         a e                  a 6 o
l         scholarship budget for            l         I         I          I         |          |         ll          |         |          |         l                    I
general s*condary education,I               I         I          I         I          I         II          l         I         l
I         teacher training and higher  1              1         1          1         1          1         II          I         I          I         I         l          I
l         .ducation at its 1987 level  )              I         I          I         I          I         II          I         I          I         I         I          I
1.2 Growth rate of recurrent          l                 I      5.61  18.           27.2 127.2          1 15.91   5.6            01        e          0 o1
budget for higher  ducation  I              I         I          I         I          I         II          I         l         l          l         l
(excl. scholorchips) not         l          I         I         |          I         I          II         I          I         I          I         I          I
to exceed  IX                               I 1                  I         I          I 1                   I         I          I         I         I          I
1. Orowth rate of the budget         1 6.71  28.1    86.61  47.91   68.7 1                  8.71          o          01        o          SI o      eo
of secondary first cycle not I              I         I          I         I          I         II          I         I          I         I         I                    I
to exce.  the overall growth                I         I          I         I          I         I           I         I          I         I         I
rate of education budget                   I         I         I          I         I          I         II          I         I          I         I         I          I
1.4 Maintain the number of new    I 28.1    a8.8   I  58.8               72.0  I  91.6  1  91.6  ||    o    I    o    I    e    I    o    I    e    I    o   I
.ntrant  to second cyclo          I         I         I          I         I          I         II          I         I          I         I         I          I
econdary  education .e the
1987 level                        I         I                                        I          I           I         I          I         I         I          I
1.5 Achieve a 9X annual               I          e   |    o                               0           |  126.8    201.8 I  286.8 I  878.8 |  481.            481.8 
increaoe In primary budget    I             1         1          1         1                                I         I         I          I         I          I
I    1O                    I prov- control of Ministry  21.7   I 47.4  j  77.8  I  112.8 I  163.1 I  167.6 0     6    I         6 O   ;    e   ;                     6 |
I         of Education staff                I         I         I          I         I          I         I           I         I          I         I                    I
1.7 RRduc  recrultm_nt of             I11.6   I 28.2  I  84.8  I  46.41  6.01   8.0                         6 o                 6          6            I eo
foreign teachers                  I         I         I          I         I                                I         I          I         I          I         i
TOTAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM            I  108.6    1860.8    279.9 I  886.2 I  601.8 1  515.2 II  142.7 I  207.4 I  286.8                3 878.a 1  481.8 I  481.8 I  
_______________________----------_------------------- _----_------__--------____________________________________________-- -___ -------_ -                    ----          b   X
0I
(D 
U'



--------------------------------------------------------------------------    --------------------------------------------------------------- - ------
PROJECT COMPONENT           I                   COST SAVINGS                        i                   INCREMENTAL EXPENDITURES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------__
1 1989      1990  11991  1992   199  11994  l1989                    190  l1991          9192   1993  11994  1
2. EXPANSION AM MPROVEME    OF       |           i               1         I                 I |                  i
I   PRIMARY EDUCATION                           i         i        i        I         I        i         I         I        i         I
2.1 ClCasroo  Construction (1)   I         I         I        I         i        i         I         I        I        I         I        I
|   - T"ehors for 611 nz      I   0   |         O   |              I   9   I   o   1118.4    26.0  141.8  16.7    72.9  19.81
clasroos pe yr (2)    I              I        t                                      I        I                                     I        I
l   - Col tlu mobito de                                                                          0        8 l    *   I                1                        4.91
4fonoteatlon ta)                                                                     i                                     i 
2.2 Improvement oft tI                   I
Efficency ond qluality of    |         l         I        I        lll                                   
the Losrnltn  Proce           Ii                          I        |         Il                           
- T xtbooke (4)                                                                             0                 0              I       0 I 20.4
- Retraning of t bwrin  r                                                                                                         . 1 *   |    *  *i
2.8 MIor Eff clent RourceI                                                   I                                I                  I        I
- b.ubI.-.hlftl)m9(S)          19                1                    120 12            1 1.1.1.1                       *   1   *         .
I  -Detablh}ftt"(t)     !         I        !~        I   . Il          Il        II        I        il        I        I         !I
- Strengtening of             I   *                                          I         I    O   I                                   I
i          R.gIol Innspectoratee (6)            1         1 i                         I        I          I        I        I         I                  I
IS. IMOE INTEL AND EXTEML ALI                                                         I        I 1  1                                 j 1
EFFICIEIY OF SECOAYAND D          I        I         I        I         IIlIllllI
HISER EDUCATION                                               I         j        j i                                                      I         I
J.1 Scienc  Teaching              I                                                                                                                 |
{   - S sondnry schel lab  (7)                                                                                 0 *                a *   |    +   |   *   |   *   |    +   0    O       91  9  1.9  !
- Hgor*                                             *          *1            1 *1 *t                                    * i               a*i
- Book  for SecoiWary         I   *         *   I    .   I   *          *   I    *   I    0   I   6   I                 aI 5   I   9   I    .
I                           ICI                I        I        I I a11a)                     1        1        1         1        1         1I
S____l__ (8)                11 _ 1 _1_1 ___ ____
-----    --- - ----- - - ----- ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 



PROJECT COLPONNT          I                  COST SAV1?fS                     TTINDtREMENTAL EXPEND1TURES
$ ~~~~~~~~~~i9B9  1990    1i99i1   1992    1 993    1 904  11N                             1989     im       im   _ m         i l_| 
__I_ ___              ___ _____I                             I __  __l_ _        I     _     ._
8.2 Technical and Vocatlenal    1                             11                                    i            I                 I
Education                            I                                          t                  T       T                 T
- Curicutlum change and          *   I          27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4  |            *         4S.     4      17 43.7    43.7
Turcbabiu ltt gen and     l        |                                                    I T  T  i        1 1  1       8 1       .  1
I          sxpansion of  nrollment In l      l        l                                                             1 
vocatlonal trainag tl
| - CFPM                         *       * T *                                               41" 48           4"0    480    40.0
_ _ _               _  -__  I _         I              _                  I    _            I                 _        I _ 
TOTAL                 i 1S 5   166.81   07a.3T 418.6   646.71  664.6C1  166.11  2S.2 1  416.01  624.7 6I44.4T 7s-.6 
I_ ___            _     ____  I                                                         III                   ____
*  po*sitive impact which should lead to cst savins; however, their m_gnttudo cannot be quantif ed.
t magnituda nil or negligible
1 t9eO    1 ;990  | 192t    1992   i     I 1994
Not tncramental xpanditura                 47.6  1 9.*9   119.5 C   111.1    198.7 I 162. 
(Incremental expenditures - eavingp)    l        l        I
(inuilIlon M) I I * "                                                I        I        t
C z
b:tlan3-I5.wkl                                                                                                                                    OD
(min)



- 142 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 7 of 8
NOTES
1)   The annual amoritzation costs of the classrooms to be constructed
under the project are estimated to be only about half of current costs.
However, these cost savings concern the communities and have no impact on
the government budget.
2) Based on (i) one teacher per classroom, (ii) annual starting salary of
UM 268.000 and (iii) automatic promotien every two years.
3)   The operating cost of the mobile demonstration unit is borne under the
project until completion. After completion (starting in 1994) the figure
given corresponds to the annual operating cost of the unit (staff and other
operating expenditures).
4)   Since books are assumed to last three years, the figure given
corresponds to the cost to Government of producing and distributing
one-third of the stock of primary textbooks, i.e., 120,000 textbooks per
year net of the financial contribution of the user to acquire books. The
average cost of a textbook is UM 2Y0, and the users are supposed to pay UM
100 per book. The production of the initial stock of textbooks is financed
under the project. No figure is given for cost savings. However, it is
foreseen that the distribution of textbooks will result in the enhancement
of quality and, consequently, improved student achievement. These savings
are, however, difficult to evaluate quantitatively before the impact of
textbooks has been empirically assessed.
5)   The project will assist the country in conducting studies to evaluate
how double-shift teaching can be most efficiently implemented. Training of
teachers and curriculum development will be financed under the project. It
is estimated that double-shifting could be implemented in Nouakchott during
the last year of the project for grades 1 to 3 (230 classes). Class size
would be reduced from 75 to 50, and the teachers would get extra pay to
compensate for their longer school day. Later on, if the experience shows
good results, this type of teaching could be extended to other urban area
schools. The financial savings would be higher under these circumstances,
particularly since the initial class size in areas outside Nouakchott would
be lower.
6)   Buildings for regional inspectorates will be either constructed or
rehabilitated during the project. Regional inspectorates, given their new
managerial and operational tasks, will be equipped under the project so
that staff (adequate in number and qualifications) will be able to perform
efficiently. After project completion, the Government will have to bear
the operating and maintenance costs, estimated at UM 5.0 million per year.
Again, no estimate is entered for cost savings since it is difficult to
assess in quantitative terms the savings generated by improved management
of staff and better control of teaching.
7)   Science laboratories will be constructed (or renovated) and equipped,
both in secondary schools and at the Institut Superieur Scientifique. In
addition, all secondary schools will be provided with a set of minimum



- 143 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 8 of 8
equipment to be used in regular classrooms. The investment costs as well
as the operating costs are covered by the project until 1993. When the
project is completed, the government budget will have to bear the costs of
maintenance and replacement of supplies for the effective operation of the
laboratories.
8)   120,000 science textbooks for secondary education will be produced and
distributed in the course of the project.  They are assumed to last an
average of three years. Therefore, the need for replacement is estimated
to be 40,000 textbooks per year. The production cost per book is estimated
at UM 500, and we have assumed that half of this amount could be recovered
from the sale of textbooks to users. No cost savings are shown; however,
it is expected that this investment will be very cost-effective, given the
initial scarcity of textbooks and the resulting initial imbalance in the
school input mix.
9)   The duration of vocational school programs has been reduced from three
to two years of study. Therefore, assuming that intakes are constant, this
increase would result in a reduction by one-third of the recurrent expenses
(cost savings). However, the project also provides for the renovation of
present facilities and expansion of coverage (additional areas of study in
existing schools, creation of two new schools). The investment costs are
borne by the project, while the operating costs are borne by the government
budget. The figures concerning incremental expenditures refer to the
difference between the anticipated operating costs of the system and the
cost of the previous system, assuming that the duration of vocational
programs will be revised, as mentioned above. The project incurs,
therefore, both cost savings (reduction of the duration of study) and
incremental expenditures (for the expansion of the system). The net
incremental expenditures would be the difference between incremental
expenditures and cost savings.
10) The new Centre de Formation Professionnel Maritime (CFPM) is an
extension in 'new buildings" of an existing center. The investment costs
of the creation of the new CFPM are borne by the project, while the
operating costs of the center will be borne by the government budget.
Operating costs are estimated at UM 70.0 million per year, while the
existing CFPM budget is only UM 24.0 million annually. No cost savings are
mentioned, but it is expected that the training and resulting availability
of Mauritanian nationals to work in the fishing industry will generate
income for these workers and implicit foreign currency savings for the
country.
bsnote3-15.txt
(min)



- 144 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURIN(o RPOJECT
Proiect Manaaement and Responsibilities for Project Coordination
1.        Background.  The current Project Coordination Unit (PCU) created
under the Second Education Project and located in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, with a very small staff (i.e., director, administrator and
support staff) has performed well during the second project implementation;
it would be retained and strengthened. This decision is in line with the
multi-sectoral approach of the project which involves the Ministries of
National Education, Economy and Finance, Fisheries and the Ministry of
Labor.
2.        Obiectives.  To amplify the institution-building effect of the
project, its various components would be implemented by the concerned
Directorates of the Ministries mentioned above. However, in view of the
size and the short period of implementation (five years) of the project,
the main objective of this component is to ensure adequate institutional
and administrative arrangement to successfully implement the project, while
reinforcing and developing the managerial capacity of variouis Ministries
concerned. Intermediate objectives include: (i) supporting the
Government's institutional building policy; (ii) placing project management
at a sufficiently high and independent level in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance to provide inter-departmental and inter-ministerial coordination;
(iii) making individual managerial units responsible for the implementation
of the project components directly related to them; and (iv) serve as
liaison between IDA, the project agencies and the Government.
3.        Approach/strategy.  To this end, the implementation
responsibility for this project would be assumed by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) with the responsibility for individual project
components and sub-components decentralized to the concerned directorates
and department. The PCU would remain attached to the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, and would be headed by a full-time national Project Director,
assisted by the current management team reinforced by (i) an architect (for
the first three years of the project) to assist in the implementation of a
hardware components and procurement, and (ii) an accountant.
4.        Functions.  With responsibility for overall supervision and
guidance of project implementation, the project director would oversee the
coordination of all project activities, including liaison with the
different units of other ministries and government services concerned with
the project, and would serve as the direct contact point between the
Government and IDA. More specifically, the PCU would:
(a) assist each Directorate in the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets for the implementation of each project component;



- 145 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 2 of 6
(b) prepare all necessary documentation for the annual review of the
Action Plan made jointly by the Government and IDA, and act as the
secretariat of the Government's review committees
(c) coordinate all aspects of project implementation with the relevant
Government entities;
(d) ensure that those responsible for each component carry out their
functions effectively;
(e) supervise the preparation of bidding documents and handle jointly with
institutions concerned the procurement of civil works, good and
specialist services in line with IDA's guidelines;
(f) plan and carry out all procurement functions, and ensure that goods
and services procured under the project are delivered to their
destinations and utilized adequately;
(g) arrange for the recruitment of personnel and specialists required by
the project;
(h) monitor and administer the specialist service contracts for both
qualitative and quantitative conformity with contract obligations
(short-term as well as long-term) and training/fellowship programs
(local and abroad);
(i) ensure adequate Government counterpart funding is budgeted and monitor
the satisfactory flow of funds for the project components (from
counterpart, IDA, AfDB, communities and private sector sources);
(j) prepare and maintain all project accounts, following accepted
accounting formats and procedures;
(k) prepare all necessary documents for withdrawal of funds from the local
project accounts (Special Account for IDA financing and separate
accounts for the counterpart funds) and for submission of withdrawal
application to IDA;
(1) arrange for annual and semi-annual audits of all project accounts by
auditors selected following IDA guidelines and ensure that such audit
reports are forwarded to IDA within six months after the end of each
fiscal year;
(m) keep records, including financial records of the project, and submit
to IDA semi-annually progress reports on project implementation and a
completion report no later than six months after completion of the
project; and
(n) arrange for the preparation of future projects.



- 146 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 3 of 6
5.        Means.  In order to carry out its responsibilities, the PCU will
be staffed with the following personnel, all adequately qualified and
experienced:
Permanent Staff           Status         Functions
(a)  a full-time Director      local          project management
(b)  an Administrator          local          financial/contracts management
(c)  an Architect              foreign        implementation/procurement
(d)  an Accountant             local          accounting
(e)  an Administrative
Secretary                 local
(f)  Support Staff             local          two typists, two chauffeurs,
four orderlies
Additional support staff would be provided on a needs basis by current
civil servants. In addition, the project would finance the following
specialist services (short-term consultants) to assist the PCU in specific
areas:
Short-term specialist          Status         Duration
(a)  educationalist                 foreign           3 mlm
(b)  procurement specialist         foreign           6 m/m
(c)  financial analyst/legal        foreign           5 m/m
(d)  auditors                       foreign          5 m/m
(e)  short-term specialists
for future project
preparation                    foreign          30 m/m
Cf)  mid-term review                foreign        0.3 m/m
Finally, the project makes provision for minor office building repairs and
the necessary office equipment, transport and operating costs for the PCU
during project implementation.
Table 1:  Summary of Operational Responsibility by Proiect Component
Operational
Proiect Component                                  Responsibility
1.   Expansion and Improvement of Primary Education
(a)  Construction of 250 classrooms and rehabili-
tation of 50 classrooms                                  DPC
(b)  Provision of textbooks and teacher training              IPN
(c)  More efficient resource use                            DPC/DEF
2.   Improved Internal and External Efficiency of
Secondary and Higher Education
(a)  Science teaching in secondary education                DES/IPN



- 147 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 4 of 6
(b)  Science teaching in higher education                   ISS/ENS
(c) Restructuring and improvement in quality and
relevance of technical education                         DET
(d) Strengthening and diversification of
vocational upgrading programs                           CFPP
(e) Creation of vocational training programs
for industrial fisheries sector                         CFPM
3.   Strengthening Education Sector Planning and
Management Capacity
(a)  Development of Ministry of Education's capacity
to plan and manage resource use                          DPC
(b) Improved coordination of provision of training
with labor market demands                         MEN/MEFIN/MPRM/ML
(c)  Maintenance of Project Coordination Unit              MEFINIPCU
Table 2 provides a suimmary of the costs financed under the project for this
component.
b:ann3-16.txt
(min)



Table 2 : Sumary of Support for
Project Coordination Unit
(UK)
"ei^ty                                                                         .Sct
lIssI           19893   t1990      1901      3992     193    total    Unit cost        31989        is"o         I1I         1992         193          lo0.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*-... .. 
1911 t E97EEt COSIS
A. 1401111E9011i 9   PEILAOCIOUE R 9081lt I
..............    ...................  .............
I. 1101il1E9                                             U1191                2                   *                  *        2    430.000       860.000                                                          a". 000
2. Sat11  CON9*EIICIE                                     111                   I         -                                     t    320.000       320.000                                                          120.000
3. PIIOIDPIEUSE                                           U1I If 1              I                                                    * 420.000     420.000                                                         420.000
4. NIClINES fCRIRE                                        Ut11It                2                                               2    lo.o000       210.000                                                         210.000
5  C4iCUt1RtICES                                           UHllf                2                                               7      s o000       30.000                                                           30. 000
6. 1611URE                                                119I,:                I                                               I    100.000       100.000                                                         1iO.oft
7. IEtEX                                                  UttttI                I                                               I    300.000       300.000                                                         300.000
S.b lotal EOUtP111193 ItOlt PED4GDGltlUE 2 11111a                                                                                                   2.240.000                                                        2.240.000
B lOVEtS IRANSPORIS
......... ..     ..     .....  ...
I. ffN 1CUIE 1EGER A ACQuERIR                             URIIE                 I                            I                 2  1.600.000    1.00. 000                               1.500000                  3.000.000
2    9ICUIIS 1I t615t44 EXISI0tS                        U1Ii                  4        4         4         3                 IS                                                                                                      I
3  t1ttD R9VER EXISI61                                    UHIIE                 I         I        I         I        I         s
4  1106YtttlES                                            UHllt                 3                            2                  5     62,000       186,000                               124.000                   310.000
S..bd3ola  1410YEtS 1ASSPORIS                                                                                                                       1, 686.000                            1.624.000                 3.310.000             0D
C  PEaSttttE1 / SfRVICES SPECIAL ISIES
I PERso119   D0ItCADRt11Elt
DIRICTIUR /a                                        HO9111  DIS           12        12        12        32       12       60 9O   000 o         140.000   I. u40.o000   1 140.000   1. 140.000   1 140.000    s 70oo 00
AI01I11IS1RAIOUR 0G1$1011ARI:                       Holmli /NO Is           12       12        12        12       12        60    288.000    3.4S6.000   3.4t.. 000   3.4U6.000   3.456.000   3. 'l6.000   17 280.000
SECRE1ARIAI * DIRECcTION9                           1m1/110IS              12        32        12       12        12       60      64. 000     768. 000     768.000 o     bs 000      768.000     168.000 3o 40.000
c011Pl3ABE                                          901011 /1IS            12        12        12       12        12       60      40.000      480o000      460.000      460.000      480.00      49*0.000    2.400. 000
S1.  lolal PERSO1t19     D619CADR69Ett                                                                                                          S.844.000   5.844.000   S,U44 000   S.844.000   5.844.000   29.220.000
2  PERSO19 1t D APPUI
DACIYIOS                                            H01WUMOI/0S           24        24        24       24        24       320     28.000      612.000      b72.000      672.000      672.000     672.000    3.360.000
CIHU*ftU%S                                          1"o11F1 l e0s          24        24        24       24        24       120     12.000      288.000      288.000      288.O000     2U6.000     26s.000    1.440.000
PIAUlS                                             NOWlt/90s              24        24        24       24        24       120     12. 000     288.000      268.000      268.000      268.000     269.000    1.440,000
G08RD0"Om 0D /801%S                                                        12        12        12        12       12       60      12.000       344.00      144.000      144. 000     144. 000     144. 000     120 000
1i11U6                                              HS0t11/IOIS            12        12        32       12        12       60      12.000      144.000      144, 000     144.000      144.000      144 000      720.000
s5.8  loglo  P19Se09E9   0 APPUI                                                                                                                 1.536.000   U 5.J6.000   U. S3b. 000   1. 5f6,000   1.53b. 000    7.b80.0O0
3. IRAIS GEHER81U1 Son PERSDRtEL
SU1 PfRSO1 1EI EHC4DRE4tttl                         NO1111H /MI S                                                                               30.120       30.720       30.720       30.720      30 720       153 600
SUR PERSONNEL APPUI                                 9o0101/110s                                                                                 30. 720      30.720       30.720       30.720      30 720       153.600
S1b. 10tl fRAIS GNE19W11 SUR PE91S0Nt9                                                                                                              61. 440     61.440       61.440       61.440       61.440      307.200
4. 8*1IS PON11lUt1S
.................
98611S1l 110901511t                                 "O11011/9011             I        I         I                            3    820. 160     820. 380     820. 380     820.380                              2 41. 140
IURISIE                                             He0r9/90ls               I        I                                     2    820.,30       820. 380     820. 380                                          1 64O.76O
tc1t11911sit t1UC0111811                            H101111/Rol              I        I         1                            3    820.  0      620. 380     820. 380     820. 360                             2 461. 140
SPfCIlAtiSt P8551tlO4 tt4RCHES                     "90E9/10 IS              2         2         2                           6    820.380    1.640.760   I. 640,760   1.640.760                                * 0922.2?0 k   
ARCHI icif   CONSEIl                               H90101U/9tS             12        12        12                          36    820. 80     .844. b6o   S. 644. bb0   9.844,510                             2%. 33 680        0 
I1VAIUAIt  111 PMI  0119RS                          911t1/90IS 0 3                                                       0 3    820, I80                   246. 114                                            246. 114      OQ  Z
S1e-. liol APPUIS PO*CIUEtS                                                                                                                    1..946, 460  14. 192. 574  13 326 080                            43.265. 114
s  AU0II /b                                            Ho011n10o1s              I         I        I         I        I         s  I,089.000    1,089.000   1.089.000   1.089.000   1,069.000   1.089.000    J.44s,000            tJX
6  EIUDES DE PRE - I1VESTISSNENtS                      HowlP0E11/S                                10        10       30        30    620.360                              6.203,800   8.203.800   8.203.800   24 611.400          0   t
1. fRAIS DE OEPtlCEttEttl                                                                                                                                                                                                          C
400S45 INIERl991106AU11                            AlIR/RIlOUR               I                  2                  2        5       3.200        3,200                     6.400                    b.400        lb. 000
PEA DIEtH INUR1181ttA1A                              PAR ODUR               10                 20       20                 so0        1s         1, 350                    2. 700      2.700                      6 75o
11ist1ts testRvatte4                               6111R9/11UR                        2                  2                  4       1.000                     2.000                     2.000                     4.000



Table 2 (continued)
PEAHEN t                                          PARJiouA                      20        -       20        -       40        235                    2. 700                  2. 700          -        5.400
EPLACEVNEN  INTENI EVA Du PATS                    PAR JOUR             40       40       40'      40       40      200      3, 000      120. 000    220. 000    220, 000    220. 000    320. 000    1,00.000
S'Ah-10 u1 ERASOL 0I BSEAVCENSN S2ltS[                                                                                                       24.560     224. 700    122. 200    22?. 400    226. 400     632. IS0
tobtal   l~uom   / IINS  CS SEICSPCALTE                                                                                                     22.601,450  22. 847. 714  29.989.420  16. O62. 640  26. 580,640  l09. 160.6KA
lotuS IRVESTNEN2 COIlS                                                                                    26.627.460  22.847.724  29.989.420  28.486.640  16,B80.2640  224.?220.8674429989420   8. 8b.640  6.80.60  11.11. S
A. #5*25 IUNC2IONENENT
2. FIICIIONNENENT ET EATRINIEN EQUiPENEN2S
P22020C0P11-                                                                                                                           42.000      42.000      42.000      42.000      42.000       220.000
OJAONTEURS                                         UNtIE               2        2        2        2        2       20   200,000       20. 000     200.000     200.000     200.000      200.000    2. 000.000
SACHIMES A ECuIRE                                                      -                                                                 0.500      20.600      20.600      30.600      20.%00       62.600
CAEIJEARIES                                                                                       .600                                                600         600         600          600        3.000
EElREit                                                                                                                                 6,000       5, 000      6. 000      5. 000       6.000      25.000 
tElEX                                .        .        .                 .        .                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30.000  30. 000  30.000  30.000  20. 000  250. 000 t
Sit- total fONET2ONRNEEAT El INTET IIN EQUIPEN1N2S.......
2. SATIRENI                                                                                                                               266.200     258,2100    266.200     258.200     266. 200    2. 440.50SOO
ENIREIIER                                        PAR ANNIE             I        I        I                                610.000      60.000      b0.000      60,000       60.000      60.000      200.000
EOLAIIOR BUREAUX  /c                             PAR ANNEE             I                       I                    6    (,00.000     600.000      600,000     600.000     600.000     600.000    3. 000.0ON
Sit-TotAl UATINENT                                                                                                                        66..0.00 .. 6..00 6.... 00.        66.00        6000...0
3.FONCIIDWENE22N2 El ENIREVIIN PARC VERICUILES                                                                                          6000        600          6.0         6.0           .0       .0.0
EMS ROVER                                      VEN2CDJEC/ANINE         I        I        I                               200, 000      200.000     200.000     500.000     (00.000     200.000      600.000
VENICIIIES tIGERS                              VE"IlCtil/ANINE         6        5        6        6                25     s0.000      300.000      300.000     300.000     300.000     300.000    2.S00.000
T1YETTES                                      UR22E/D.NNE            3        3        3        3         3       Is     6.000        28.000      IS,000      25.000      28.000      (8.000       90.000
ASSURANCES V&KICUIIS                           VEI2ICU1f/ANNE              6        6        5 6           5       26     46. 500     2 32.600O    232.600    232.600      232.600     232.600    1.162.100
EONSOMA2 ION ESSENCE  /d                          El IRE         122000   12.000   22.000   12. 000   22. 000   60,000        60      720.000      720. 000    720. 000    720.000     720. 000    3.600.000
Sat-laNIdV BOCUINNREAU    E1CIEINPR   E2EJI                                                                                              .370. 500   I3170.500   2.1370.600   2.270.600   2.270.600    6.552.500
4  IOumii2IRES BUREAU                 ~~~~~~~~PAR ANNIE      I        2        I        I        I        6    800.000      500,000     800.000     800.000     800.000     800.000    4. 000. 000
S. COUNJICATIONS /e                             00182100 ANAIJIIE         I        I        2        I        2        5    300.0'41     300,000      300.000     200.000     300.000     300.000    2.500.000
AB MRIS RIVERS  it                              002*1200 AINEIIE          I   I             I   I         I I          6    2S."  50.000 26,00        20.000      560.000     260.000     250.000      750. 000
7. LCUREStM  /g                                     PAS ANNIE             2        2        2        2        2       20   640.000    2.080. 000   3. 080.000   2.080. 000   2.080.000   2.080.000    6.400.000
Sib-Total FRAIl FIUC2IONNENENT                                                                          4.648.600   4.648,800   4.648.600   4.848.600   4.648.646000 4  23. 243. 00060   4.643.0    4.48.60   23 243 oo
Jamal RECIIAREAI COSTS                                                                                     4. 648. 600  4. 648 800  4. 848. 600  4.648. 800  4. 648.4 648600  23. 2430.4000.60   4."A.50   4 "S.bOO    3.24.00
total                                                                                                      II. 278.050  27,496.324  34.538.020  23. 234.240  22.509.240  227.963,66416 00 2, 4&  14  4.63b O"2313424   2 . S. 40   31263 A
Ab  AMIN   El SEESIRICE                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
IC  if cis (CHESTM
/d  IdO0OChSAN/VEIICUIE2   ET 22 E,II1ES/OORN10
Ia EE/IIELEI/RN
If  EAUIEIETRICITE                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
/Am ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'
Api  . 2986  24: 43



ISLAMIC IEPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING MOJECT
IWLEbIENTATION SCHEDULE
COWONENTS                                  1966      19os' ,199                 1991          1992         199a
JASO   JFUMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFUMAJJASOND JFMAMJJASON JFMAMWJJASOND
1. EXPENS.AND IMPROV.OF PRIkMARY EDUCATION
(a) Construction of 260 classroom  and
rehabilitation of 60 classroom       B      B             I            B            I 
-Conatruction/Rehab: Phase 1        IPPPPBBOIIIItIIIIIUIIIIIBIIUIIII    I                        I            B
-Construction/R.hab: Pha" 2         1  1                              IPPPPPPPBBBOOIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIBI
-Furniture                          IPPPPPB BBOIIIIt---- IIIIIIII---BIIIIIIII----lIIIIIUIIBUSBIIIIIIU         I
-Equipment/Vhicl.s                  IPPPPPBIBBBOIIIIIIII  -------- II--- IIIIII        IIIIII     ------------I
-Pedgogical supplies                IPPPPPBBBBOIIIII2I---IIIIIIII----IIIIIIIII----1IIII16888B1II111           B
-Vol unt.ers                        I      IXXXXXIOOXXXXIXXXXXXXXXXX BXXXXXXXXXXXXBXIOOOOOOOOCxiKxOxxxx   I
-Foreign specialistn                I      IYYYY- ----IYYY------- YYYY Y----- i--------- YY                 I
-Local specialists                  I      lXXXXXXX,:XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  XXXxXXXXXX IXXXXXXXXXXXXI XKIXOO   O IXXXX
-Foreign training                   I      I YYYYmYYYY I YyYT         I             I            I             I
-Local training                            I I  YYYY'VYYYY I YYYYYYYYYYYYBYYYYYYYYYYYY I  YYYYYYYIYY YYYYYYYYYYI
-Incremental operating costs                I---I--I--- I---I---I---II---I---I---II---I---I---BI---I---I---
(b) Textbooks A Techer TrainingI
-Storage rehabilitation                PmPIBBBOO-I3.I--- III-----IIIII -----IIIIIIII-----IIIIlI-----III
-Furniture                               PPB P-PBBO1i-II-B-II                       I lI|                     I
-Equip_ent/Vehicloc                 I   P--IP-P8B                                          ---IIIItIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII---I-II -- -Il  I
-Book purchase                      BPPPPPSIPOOBBBOlIIItilIIIIIII     I             I            B            I
-Book printing                      IPPPPPDIPOOSWBOIliIIIIIIIIII     I            I             BXXX--XX--X-XI
-Foreign specialists                iPPPP-I-XX---XXX---I--XXX---X---I--XXX---X---lXXX--XX--X-XlXXX--Xx--X-KI
-Local specialists                         I        X----I--KXX---X-- I--XXX---X---I XXXXXXlXXXX     - BXXX-XX-XXX I
-Foreign training                   I      I YYYYY'YYYY Y I    YYYYYM YYYYY         I            I             B
-Teacher training                   1      I Y---Y'--Y-I--Y---Y---Y-I--Y---Y---Y-B--Y---Y---Y-BI--Y---Y 
-Incremental operating coats        B
(b) Efficient use of Ressource
-Evaluation ot double-shift *yst B   PPIPPPPPPPPPPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ------------I-----------
-Experimentation of double shift   I   PPBPPPPPPPPPPPPBIIIIIIiiiiiiii IIIIIIII   ------------------------
-Construction of an ENI In Aloun   B   PPIPPPBBIIIIIIBIIIIIIII          IIIIIIIIIIIi              B---------------------
-Equipment of an EXI In Aloun              I             I  PPPPOUSBIOIIIIIIIIIIlBB------------I---
-Conctruction/Rehab. of 13 DREF     B   PPBPPPBSBOIIIIIIBIIIIIIIII|IIIIIIIIIIIIII -------------
-Equipmsnt of 13 DRL-E              I                    I  PPPPBBSBIIOIIIIIIIIIII        ------------ I ___-----
-Operating costs for DREFe          B
2. SECONDARY AND HIFiER EDUCATION           B       B            j                          I                          B
(a) Scionce In Secondary Education       B      I             I            l             |            l            I
-Construction of 8 blocs            I PPPPBeOOIIIIIIIIBIIIIIIIIIIIIIB------------I----------------------
-Equipment of t blocs                      I B    PPPPP6IBBBOIIIIIIII ------------B-- ---------------------I
-Pedag.equipment (Cycles I and 2)          lP"1  5BIIIII ------------B------------I    
-Pedag supplies (Cycles 1 and 2)   B       IPPPPPPPBUB_OIIIIIIIIIII  -----------         ---           --- _ 
-Foreign specialists                       IIB---I---I---  ---I---I--- I---I---I--- I---I---I--- I---I---I---I
-Local training                             I---I---I---    ---------               ------------------------ 
-eooks                               PP I          -      I-BOOIII B---I----- III  ------------ I- ----------I I   B 
-Improvemnt of 110 classroom                                                        - P--P-P-P---8-I-III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-------
(b) Science in Higher Education          l          I        BI               -     -B        -       BlB
-Transfer of ISS to Rosso (works)      PPPBOIIIIIIIIIIII                                               
-Tranut-  of ISS  o Ronno  uorkn)  ;PPPPl880IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiiij------------ I------------ I------------ IP
-Equipment of ISS                                                      ------------ ------------ ------------
-Foreign specialists                       B      P--I-- I--BB1------I---I1 --I--BIB-                        B
-Training abroad *I---I---I---BI---I---I---lI---I---I---I---I---I---I---I---I------
-ookspedg nbrogicl supports                 I---I---II ----                 III------------B -- ---- -
-Books/pedagogical supports         TPPPPB8  BOOIII----j---III----j---III    j-------j-------



(c) Technical Education                  l      l             l            l             l            I
-Construction of a CET In Bogh.        PPPPIBB8O0IIIIUIIUIIIUUUIl- - ------------                        -- --
-Equipment of a CET in Boghe            I         PPPPPBIBBBOIIIIIIIII                   ----I
-Minor works for Comomrcial Lyc..  I PPPPIB80.IUIIII IIXIIIIIIIIIII         ------------- 
-Equipment for Commercial Lycc      I      I      PPPPP                ---BBOIIr-II ----------- - ----
-Extension of LT Nouakchott         I PPPPIBBOONIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  I    II-  ---I           ----  ----------
-Additional equipment for LT NKT   I       I      PPPPPBIBI8OIIIIIIIII------------ --------- I
-Additional equipment for CSET NKT I       I      PPPPPo IBSOIX III          l----------------- -  -----
-Works at CET Nouhadibou            I PPPPIBBOOIIUIIItI IIIIII                     I--------        -------
-Additional equipment for CET ND8    I     I      PPPPPBIBBBOIIIIIIIII----------
(d) Vocational Training                         I                                                     l
-Extension of the oxisting CFPP    I PPPPIBBOOIIIIIIIIXIIII IIIIII ----------------------
-Equipment for the CFPP                           PPPPPiIUseOIIIXUt             --t--------      I---17---I
I  I          ~      ~      ~~I I----     I ----
(e) Maritim  Training Center                                               I I
-Minor works for CFPM Nouhadibou   I  P BBOI IIIIIII _ I_  _ -------------------I-------- - -
-Additional Equipment for the CFPM I   PPIPUBsBoIIUII--  - --            -   
S. EDUCATION SECTOR PLANNINM/MAGEMENT        I      l            I             I            I             l            I
(a) Planning and Management              I      I             I            1
-Furniture                          I  PPPIBBIIIII   I                 I            I                          l
-Equipment                          I  PPPIBBBCIIIII   I                            I            I             I
-Foreign special iste               I         X-X-X-X-X-lX-K-X-X-X-X-K-X-X-X        I                          II
-Foreign training                   I      IYYY1YyyYYYYY IYYYYY vvYYvI l                         I
-Incremental operating costa   |           II---I---I--- I I-I-----lx---z---I---UI---z--I---l----l
-Preventive Maintenance: Phase I   IFFFFFIPPPfPPPPPPPBBBO      IIIIIIII       IIUIIIIIIIII ---I---I---It---I--I---l
-Preventive Maintenance: Phase 2   I       I             I            I             I rrr.reu.,,,IAIIIIIXIII.
(b) Training/Labor merket Coordination  7                     i            | I                                     I
-Furniture                                PIPB41OOIhIIII IIIII I                   I
-Equipment                          I    PIP89IlOOUUUIUII IIXIIIIIIIIIUI            I
-Foreign spcialis                   I      IX-)S--X--X--IX--X--X--X--IX--X--X       I            I             I
-Foroign training                   I      I         VIYYYYYYYYYYIYIYYVYYYYYYYYYI                I             I
-Local training                     I       l--Y--Y--Y--iY--Y--Y          V--V--V--TI-Y          I
-Incremental operating cot.                                   I-- I--I----I--- I--
(c) Implementation capacity
-Furniture                          I    PIPBBDEWOIIIIII              I             I            I
-Equipment/Vehicles                 I    PIPUIOUIIIIIlI ------------ ---           |-II-- I---III-I ----III    I
-Foreign specialists                I      Ixx mxlxxx xxxxxxxxxX Ixxxm mYXxxmmxx,oocxglxoaxxxx              I
-LocsI specialliste                        IXXXXXoCCKXXXKX)X IIOOCCtx IXXXXXXXoXXXXXXlmXlXXXIXXOO IXX  I
-Foreign training                                        I            l                      rYvYYYYir         I
-Incremental operating costs        |                 I11111111111 IIIIIIfI IIUIIIIIUIII  IIIIIII
I   I   I   I  I          I             I
B a Bidding                         P u Preparation
o = Cuarentee                       R * Resarch/study
I a Implemntation                   X = Duration of appointment
O * IDA/Govt review                 Y * Duration of tralning                                                                         _
-J



- 152 -                                                  ANNEX 3-18
Page 1 of 4
t6miC IWWUC w MlA1TMI6jIw                   V161,  36 ImUITm
UCATImSElCT= fismIclawU   fOACT/
3604  0  MIUTCCT1T10  Ou  tUIC mWuATI
S VW   OP CtVIL      J/llM M6  UAVME 6K 
Cool 0609trictioa
sorft    "us              S     brot  (Oat de be)
em mOrs  ca_re "Ws             oo a      Om W  a On
Cpe- so. d' . 
Caseratlo. de  as             W-clt lUmit.   PI"*  lnit.   totl             Tatal    p  US    TOl
1.01=11_T po1w
I.A. SDMCTtUS  SAgMLE6 K  L'U11T    SW *IAIL (_W) (comstmiouromewul)
d .leoetlem                        I      I    U.S        U                    201       2        1W
aestle. ymetlmtabelw _             2      I      6.0      16       16          21        23        211
1 "  _*1"   _Xt1-1   2     1      6.6      to       is          21        2         M
oeatlemttet m _           1               1 t    6.6      16       u6         2n         n6 
blbIlothmmI/reulom                s       t      2.4      46       48          St        u         2 z1
_em~Iat                            2      1      6.6      is       is          21    *.           M
_eceptles                          1      1     14.6      10       16          21        23       so
atecba  --tere Issasele            I      1    46.6       46       46          a         a3    S,m
stllapr oIretl,  rtoelol           2      1      S.0       s        6          21 nn               ae
Pr...                              1      I      26 n.             n           42        n      1,64
bloc   ltire                       4      2      2.                16          n         n       'ue
Totl 1.A. (peor 1 O1N)            46     1s                       276         S"         23      2,
1.3. 36112 02  CULS'
Co.sbruoloa                        6    M        6.6      a   U,           i,s        16.74   161,674
_emwatis                          a6     a       1.6      U     2,1         3776       6.04    16,1W
Teatl 1..                        li     M                      Um,w       2,676         16  26,674
l.C. IIDI8  CffuAL WUAELS SCOLAV I
novels  aral (MM                   I      I    M.6        M        M           M         g6     7._m
1.0. 16. NShILE DIliTTt     6Atm  (0') weai amae 6-16 pegs 4.
TOTAL 1                                                                                       26,674
a.  3_6mt 063 s6t066
S.A. DAN LI E 80C6161
SlOcs. caootlre                   46      S      S.?    173       32          US         ss    17,216
61.. a tr&a    r_r                46      6      8.7    172         6                     6         6
Tota S.A.                        2        a2                      S"           M         2     17,216
-=                                                _             _l
2.6.  MTnIUT 1       U  onIS S t  (S)  aeir dea11    _s         U  _-16 pg  I at S.           123.214
TOTAL S.                                                                                      142,68
S. M m      ir 11116  61 FO        6       P     6
S.A. LCEhS Er COl\l"U T11am
2.A.1. C .z.T. 
-el11. bde l                  *       2      2.       o 66    1           126        16     2,664
-ealleedmoi       U       1        .3     66       66          12         2      2,76
-stellor.17                          6     2I.   616    1,m            2,246        U     47,132
-adaisistratles                I     is     14.6      14      146         162        n      4,66
-lcgmmmto                    1      S     73.6      10      223         3Mn         20     ?,n
Totl 2.4.1.                      3       24                     2,1          3,661       22    63,142
C.A.2. C.K.T./LWCE  COCthL 6lOO1TT
-all*. bmllesm               W       4      2.1      66      M           a1l         a       o
_ll. epsialls               16      I      *.6      2s       is          *1         a       1l
-buamas cm/camp"              13     6       6.6      W       Us          772         S     2,u?
-isietrgtlie                   1     if     14.0      16      149         In          4       7
Tatl 1.A.J.                      no      U1                     t,os        1,817       1.1     4,62
-                                            m
S.A.&. C.3.T./LTYW  Vm sil. hhUIXOWT
-latereto    (a.t.m.)         W       2      2.       as     1in          136         3     4,n
__-mmogmste allar            24       1     12.6    to        M           $74        14     3,242
-b er                          4      2      6.6          n    4U                    n      U 1,48n
-etl I.e.                      4      3      6.7     1O       so          41U        23    16,4W
-Il. epasllsom                34      4 *.6              a    M           416        n     11u,6
Tetel 3.6.8                       46                            I'm         1,43         22    "aM
TOTAL S.6.                                                      4.418       3,M               1,212
c.S. C.P.P.P. (wlestr/refrlor)
-sell.. bematlim              W6     2       2.6       6      13          13          6     31
1a1lle                        12      2        Y.T   1a       MW          U64               r,
M&61 $8..                         64      4                       46           M         19    16 ,_
TOTAL 2.                                                                                      112,46
4. C.P.P.U.
-mnemtegmut atl lwoe                                                    2,2           1     3423
TOsI 4.                                                                                         ,42
S*r-A 6                                6        6 -                             6                                               I
@ @  ss 0~~~~~~~~~~



- 153 -                                                     ANNEX 3-18
Page 2 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUC OF  AWrIANIA/RELIQJE ISLAMIlU  DE KAURITANIE
BY.r-ATION SECTOR RETRTURRIN  PROJECT/                             A :REPAR             a .000 LU
PROJET DE RESTRUMTRATION DU SETa. EDUCATION                        B :TRANSV            7 .000 LI
SL"NRY OF CIVIL VOB/ReSLE DES TRAVAUX DE CN1STJCTION               C  C0NSTR           26 .000 UN
TRASFER OF HOGER I1,STITUTE OF SCIENES TO ROSSO/
TRAWfRT DE L'ETITVr SUPUIBJR DE SCI8dCBS A ROSSO
Surface nette      Surfece Lacaux      Travaux n.ceoi roe
roquiso             Brute  Existent   Surfac* on H2         Cout en Ut '000
Cape-  No  d -  ------------------  ----     -
-cite Unito Place  Unit Totel  requ so Surf. typo  Exton* Rnov Tot I Eaxton  Renov    Tot l
Enu_eration d-o loaeux            U    U      42    H2    t2      42    F2 (ABC)       12    PG   PG        Ut    UL        UN
1. INST. SUP. SCIE?CES(ISS)
1.1 .AMrNISTRATION
-bureou direction                  1    1  24.0    24    24       S1     31    B        0    31    31        0    218      218
-bureau direction edjt.            1    1  24.0   24    24        31     31    B        0    31    31        0    218      218
--ocroterist                       1    1  20.0    20    20       26     26    8        0    26    26        0    182      182
-dsctylogrsphio                   3    1   8.0   24    24         31     31    B        0    31    31        0    218      218
-consoil ler tochn.                1    1  20.0    20    20       26     26    B        0    26    26        0    182      182
-salle 1runion                    16    1   3.0    48    48       62     62    B        0    62    62        0    437      437
Service scolarite
-chef service                      1    1   16.0   16    16       21     21    a        0    21    21        0    146      146
-egente                           S    1    6.7    20    20       26     26    B        0    26    26        0    182      182
Service pereonnel
-chef service                      1    1   16.0    16    16      21     21    B        0    21    21        0    146      146
-agents                           3    1    6.7    20    20       26     26    B        0    26    26        0    182      182
Service technique (saint.)
-chof service                      1    1   16.0   16    16       21     21    B        0    21    21        0    146      146
-magesin                           1    1   12.0   12    12       16    16    B         0    16    16        0    109      109
Service financier
-chef service                      1    1   16.0    16    16      21     21    S        0    21    21        0    146      146
-agent.                           3    1   6.7    20    20        26     26    a        0    26    26        0    182      182
-esgesin foyrnituro.               1    1   12.0    12   12       16     16    B        0    16    16        0    109      109
-salle de- actos                 80    1    1.6   120   120    1s6    156    8          0   156   156        0  1,092   1,092
-archiv-e                          1    1  80.0    30    30       89     39    8        0    S9    39        0    273     273
Cfaeteri-                          1    1  20.0    20    20       26     26    B        0    2b    26        0    182      182
totel I1.      20                     478      621    621            0   621   621         0  4.850   4,350
1.2. LOCAX PEDAGOCI5ES
TP Bio-snimal
-sullen TP                       24    a    2.3    60   180      234    234    B        0   284  234         0  1,638   1,688
-bur.sua                           1   2   12.0    12    24       S1     31    B        0    81    31        0    216     218
TP lnguos/infor.atique
-" lo- TP                        24    2    2.5    60   IO       l6      0    C      156     0   156    4,056      0   4,056
-sell. inforoatique              24    1   3.3    80    80       104      0    C      104     0   104    2,704      0   2,704
-bureaux                           1   2   12.0    12    24       31      0    C      81      0    31      811      0     611
TP goologi-
-a-lle TP                        24    2    2.3    60   120      136    156    B        0   156   16         0  1,092   1,092
-bureaus                           1    1   12.0   12    12       16     16    B        0     S    16        0    109      109
TP physique/chisie
-mals" TP physiologis            24    2    2.5    60   120    16    156    8         0   1S6   156         0  1,092   1,092
-eall-o TP physique              24    2    2.5    60   I20      1S6    156    B       0   1b6   16          0  1,092   1,092
-za,lie  TP chimis               24    2    0.0      0     0       0      0    B       0      0     0        0      0
Rochorcho biologic sniosle
-sa1lo- TP                        6    4    4.0   24    96       125     25    8       0   125   125         0    874     874
-bureouI 1    1 12.0    12    12                                  16     16    B       0    16    16         0    109     109
Rocherche biologie vogetele
-mal0  TP                         6    4    4.0   24    96       125    12     8        0   125   125        0    874     874
-burau                             1    1   12.0    12    12      16     16    8        0    16    16        0    109     109
Recherche Ceologis
-colloe TP carto/peleontologie    6    2    8.0   48    96       12     US    8         0   125   125        0    874     874
-_ellc TP dotct/ninerel           6    2    4.0   24    48        62     62    8        0    62    62        0    487     487
-bureau                            1    1 12.0    12   12          6     16    B        0    16   16         0    109     109
Recherche Informtiquo
-aslls TP                         6    8    4.0   24    72        94      0    C       94     0    94    2,434      0   2,434
-buroeu                            I    1   12.0   12    12       16      0    C       16     0    16      406      0     406
Recherche Physique                 6    4    4.0    24    96     12     125    B        0   12    125        0    874      874
Recherche Chimis                   6    4    4.0   24    96      12      1125    B      0   125   15         0    874      874
-bureau                            1    112.0    12    12         i6     1       0s    a   o       16        0    109      109
Cl _seee  banal iee
-e l lea do claswe              52   16    1.7    54   864   1,123  1,U12     B        0 1.12S 1,128        0  7,862   7,862



- 154 -                                                ANNEX 3-18
Page 3 of 4
Surface "ett.     Surfmc* Locaus      Trevoun necsal roe
requlee            Brute  Existent   Surfece an M2        Cout an Ul '000
CaP- No d' ------------------ ------ ----------- ------------------ ----------------------
-cite Unite Plece  Unit Total requi- Surf. type  Eatenc Renov Total Eaten- Renow    Total
Enumeration doe loceus           U   U       @2  tQ   IQ        P2    P2 (A80       Pa   H2   Pa        UL4    UN       Li
Bebi btheque
-ell. do lecture               100    1   1.2  120  120   1I6           0   C      156    0   16    4.064        0   4.066
-boaes pour recherche           20    1   2.5   S0    80        68      0   C       68     0    6     1,690      0   1.690
-lecture proleaer-              12    1   3.8   40   40         62      0   C       52    0    82    1,.82       0   1.352
-6tockege Iivrea                 1    1 120.0  120  120    186          0    C     1SO    0   186    4,056       0  4.080
-rpro9raphi-/entrotion           1   1  24.0   24   24          31      0    C      81    0   81        811     0     811
-calle trait.intormtique         4    1   9.0   86   86         47      0    C      47    0   47    1,217       0   1.217
-oall. projection               12    1    1.7   20   20        26      0    C      26    0   26        676      0    676
Jardin .xp.riental                                                                                    2,000         2.000
Animlerie                                                                                             4,000          4,000
Zone pisciculture                                                                                    1t,00           1,800
total 1.2.  1,148                  2,734  8,S54  2.821           088 2.621 8,54   81,768 18,848  60,114
1.S.LOUKENTS (VAT. El)
dortoire (200 pl) a*enagt.     200    1   4.0  800  600   1,040  1.040   A           0 1,040 1.040        0  8,200   5.200
sall, d'.tude (cl FE)           82    1   1.7   84   54         70    70   A         0   70   70          0   851    861
lagemente visiteur. (10)         1  10  16.0   16  160    208   206   a              0  206  208         0  1,456   1,466
loge.ent eaplo;i technique.      1  10  80.0   30  300    890   890   A              0  890  890         0  1.080   1,950
looeente prfaseura
typo 1                           6    1  26.7  160  160    200   208   A             0  206  206          0  1,040   1.040
type 2                           4    8  80.0  120  380    4e8   468    A            0  468  468          0 2,840   2,840
type 8                           8   10  80.0   90  900   1,170  1,170   A           0 1,170 1,170        0 8,660o  s860
type 4                           2    2   40.0   so   160    200   208   A           0  208  206          0  1,040   1,040
total 1.8.   282                    2894  8,762  8,762             0 8,762 3.762        0 19,227  19,287
1.4.REsTAutWT rLIVERsITARE
reectoi re                     200   1   2.0  400  400    520           0   C      520    0  820  18,520        0  18,520
cuisine etockage               200   1    1.0  200  200    260          0    C    260    0  260    8.760        0   6.760
tota 1 .4.   200                     600    780       0          780    0  780  20.280        0 20,280
1.t.AIA40fES A ET. (VR)
tr.it_eent E.U. LABOS                                                                                               2,000
Oroups *1 ctrogene (ecoura)                                                                                          8,800
Tranforateur                                                                                                         1,800
cloture                                                                                                            10,000
12,020
total 1 .s                                                                                       29.028
_ ~~~~~- - - - - -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- _- -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -_- -- - -- -- -- -- _-- -- -- -- -- - -- - -            _
TOTAL  EEL COr DE BASE                             6,708  8,716  7,004         1.713 7,004 8,718  81,077 41,922 122,9o9
20-Apr-88



-  155 -                                              ANNEX  3-18
Pa ,e 4 ot 4
ISLAMIC ROPMIC OF MAIUITANIA/RU11USE ISLANISII   O AIURITMtIE
EDUCATION SECTON hESICINO POJECT/                                A       24 .W10 U/112
PROJET DE RESTlJCflATION DU SECTEU  EDUCATION                    a       20 W.   UN/11
SIIUMAN  OF CIVIL WONKS/SUIE DOS TRAVAUX DE CONSTRUCTION
TEACIER TRAINING COtLLE IN AIOUN/
ECOLE NtORALE O INS11UTEIUIS DAIOUN    Surface n tte        Surfaeo
requly.             Brute  Cent Conotr on UM  00
core No do-
-cti  Unit  Pl.ce Unit *otal  Total  par It  cod -l  total
Enu_retin de* locaux           U    U     Mg    U2    12    Ir2   U/N2          X      U
1. AONINISTRAtTION
-eurweu dire4tion               1    1  24.0    24    24        J1        A   1.8     97J
-eallee ttente                  4    1     .10  12    12        16        A   1.U      487
-o_cretarlst direction          2    1    1.0   10    18        21        A   1.38     649
-direction etud                 1    1   20.0   26    28        26        A   1.80     o11
-intendant                     1    1   20.     29    20       26        A   1 s      *11
I-urveillant generol            1    1   20.      20    20      26        A   1.      :011
-ecretriat dactylo              1    1  20.6   20    20         26        A   1.0      s11
-_alie duplication              1    1   12.0   12    12        16        A   1.SU     487
-sell. archive                  1    1   12.0   12    12        10        A   1.30     467
-"alI- profocceure             12    1   *.8 J     4   40       52        A   1.80   1,622
-_gspin materiel peggIqu    1    1   12.0   19    12            16        A   1.80     40?
-locel entretien                1    1    9.0     9      9      12        A   1.36     366
_anitare                        1    1   12.0    12    12       16        A   1.80     487
_________ ----------------- ------- ----------------------
total 2.1    26                      229     290                    9 2"
2. LOCAUX PEDAOQOIqUES
(capecite: 6S0 slavee)
-*alle* benoZeee                4    74    1.0   64   370      491        0   1.s0  16,60
-oelledo permanence             0    1    1.0   so   II        117        B   1. U    8,95
-oaie de geographi             54    1    1.2   64    64       38         1   1.80   2,012
-*11- eaeignt audio-visuel  27    1    2.0   64    64           70        a   1.3U   2.J78
-s1 deceln/aueique          27    1    2.0   54 U     4      70        a   1."   2,878
-labo de technologle           27    1    2.4   64    64        0s        a   1.80   2.012
-lab. de Sclences  noturell-   27    1    2.4   64    64       68         8   1.38   26012
-lab. de phyeiquo              27    1    2.4   64    64        so        9   1.3   2.612
-sall de verrerl                1    1   82.0    32    82       42        B   1.80 1U406
-sail. de cellection            1    1   82.0    82    82       42        1   1.U   1,406
salle de pedgole              27    1    2.4    64   6U4       8         8   1.3U   2,612
-oell de decu_ntation           1    1   82.0    82   82        42        0   1.80   1,486
-bibilotleeu  lectur           60    1    1.8    a    a0       104        8   1.38   3,515
-stockoge lyre.e bibitothequ    1    1   20.0    20    20       26        a   1.80     679
-ualtairs                      s     1    2.7    es    60      104        S   1.8    8,616
________ ---------------- ------- ---------------------
total 2.2.    694                   1,172   1,624                   61,490
2.8. ECWUS OAPPLICATION (a)
-slllle, e clas*a              54    0    1.0 U4         0       6        A   1.38       0
-oeelin materiel pedagogiqu    1   0   1e.0   10        0       0        A   1.80       0
-bureau directeur               1   t   10.0   1i        0       0        A   1.30       0
total 2.J.                      0                        0 * 
-                              = --_
2.4.INST.SOCIAUX-EDUCATIVES
-infirulr_e (adi. adin.)        8    1   16.0   46    46        59        A   1.80   1.825
total 2.4.      J                      46       9                    18126
246  LOGEIOM                                                 -..O
-dircteur                       6    1   16.7   100   10       13U        A   1.8U   4,660
-directeur etude.               6    1   16.0    so    90      117        A   1.3U   8,650
-aurvillont general             e    1   16.0    o     90      117        A   1.3U   8.660
-conietrge                      4    1    0.6 e        U 5      40        A   1.30   1,42
total 2.6.    :22                     J16     41                    12 770
2.6. ANIENMENS-VRD
-branch_nte/cloture/acce. (10  cout conatruction)                                   7,689
COUT DE QASE TOTAL OIEAL    647                     1,761   2,200                   02.92
(a) coeple. done lem 3U clll" de clas.o conatruite dant lo cadre de lo co_opsnte
construction de Sell!. de c osc.
NO       NIVEAU
ANSEES  ELEVES      RECRUT.
I ERE ANIEE    116       8EC
2 IEME AiEE    116          fPC
8 IEME ANNEE   lS et      BEPC
15611       SAC
TOTAL    5tl
__                             _
01-Apr-es



ISLAMIC RE?JY?..IC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
--------------------------------------
Suary of Local and Foreign Specialist Servieee
------------------------------------------------
l                          I                                 I NO. OF  ILOCAL'OR I TOTAL   I  PERIOD   I                                            I BASE COSTS l
I   PROJECT COMPONENT    I        SPECIALIST SERVICES        I PERSONS I FORZICN IMANMONTHS IFROM    TO  I         SUMMARY JOB DESCRIPTION          I (UQ  l0o)  1
II. EXPAND AND IMPROVE    I                                  I         I
l  PRIMARY EDUCATION       I                                 I         I          |          l             l                                        l            l
IA. Classroom Construc-   11. Deputy regional coordinators 1   2    IUN Volun.1   98    11/89   12/92IProvido technical guidance to school  1             12,922 
I  tion                    I                                 I         I          I          I             iconstruction                            I            I
I                                    I                 I                        III
12. Rogional coordinators         I   2    1   L    i  120    11/89   12/93IResponsibl- for the regional school   I             7,680
I l                     -         I         I          I          I             Iconstruction program                   I             I
-I;1. Technician                                            l   1          L    I   60    11J99  12/93IProvida technical support to school   I             ,40
I  I                              I          I         I          I             l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~      ~~~~~~constructionII
14  Laboratory etot              i ov nal        L    j    6      11/89   12/931iQuxlity control/*oil t estng                    7 tE
16. Evaluation specialists         se*overal    F    1    12    11/89   12/93ISt rt-up/Mid-t r- evaluation/comun-  I          16',166 
|  I                              i         i          I          I             Jity-based program                       I
IS. Short-term consultant         Iseveral I   L    1   3         11/89   12/93lLand surveyor/ponctual inputs            1      2,993 I
BS. Textbooks and In-    l1. Textbook editing/publishing  I several I   F    1    14    11/89   12/93lTrsining and advice on editing, prepa-I              8.967 i
Service Training          I  specialist                     I          II                   I             Irstion of layout, and printing of       I 
I                          I                                 I                    I          I             Itextbooks                               I            I
12. Professional feo for          I         I   L'         2      I                                                                   I I  7021
Iarchitect IPN                    II                                                                                                  I
---------------I--------------                           ------- --       -------------------  ------------------------ -- ---I                     I
IC. More Efficient         11. Curriculum expert on double-   I 1    I   F    I    6         13/90    6/91lAdeptation of curriculum and timteblel          4,015 j
I  Resource Use            I  shift teaching                 |         I          I          I             Ion double-shift teaching                I            I
I                   I                                 I          I        ~     ~~I    I            I                                        I             I
I                          12. Evaluation of double-shift       I 1    |   F    |      5     13/90    6/91l0DsIgn of experiment  nd monitoring   1         4,615 i
I  experimnt                                II                                  lof results of double-Nhift teching   I
I                          I                                 I         I I                   I             I                                        I I
I                           .18 Teachers in double-shift     I  30    I    L          270     101/96   7/911Teach in 30 experimental schools        I      2,700 1
l                             *schools                       I         I          I          I             I                                        I            I
14. National Tsok Force on        I several I   L    1   24    1/90   12/91IMnag -nt, control and evaluation of                  240 1
double-shift teaching         I         I          I          I             ldouble-shift schooling experiment       I 
I          I                                 ~    ~ ~        ~ ~        ~    ~      ~      ~~~                                             ~     ~~~I  I  I  I  III
is. Proftesional fee  for         I   I    I  F/L   I    13    11/89   12/91jArchitectural serviess and building   ;            9,710 |
1  architect (DREF)               I         I          I          I              lite supervision                                     |
o-  -



I                          I                                 I NO. OF  ILOCAL OR I  TOTAL   I  PERIOD   I                                          I BASE COSTS
PROJECT CMPONENT    I        SPECIALIST SERVICES        I PERSONS I FOREICGN I MANONTHS IFROM    TO D         SUMWARY JOB DESCRIPTION          I (U  0003  I
III. IIPROVEMENT OF                                          I          I i       i                        ' i
SECONDARY AND HICIER
EDUCATION             I                                 I          I         I          I                                                      I            I
-I------- -I--------
A. Science in Secondary  11. Sci-nce curriculum spcialieti *everal I    F    I   6           11/89    8/93ITo advise on revision In science                4,38e
Education              I                                 I          I         I           I            Icurriculum and to evaluate experiment
I                                 I         I                                   lwith scionco blocks                    I             I
I                   I                                 I          I        ~     ~     ~~I  I        I                                                     I
12. Profossional fees architect  I   1    I  F/L   1   3          11/89    9/gOlArchitectural designs for science       I       1,937 1
I         I         I           I            Iblocks                                  I
         ------   ---------I- -- ------ ---------- --   I------I- ------I- -        -----I--------    ---- ---------- ---- ---         ---    - ---    -- - 
IS. Science In Higher      11. Science equipment specialist I   1    I   F    I   6          16/90   12/91iTo *coist In Installment of laboratoryl         4,644
I  Education                                                 1         1          1          I              equipmnt                               I             I
12. Professional foes for           s everol I   F    1   16    11/89   12/911                                          1     11,277 I
I  architcts 
1i. Professional fees for         I several      F F    i    10    11/89   12/91|Preporstion of equipmnt lists and    |         7,C20 i
I  equipment specialist           II                                            Ibidding documents                       I
IC. Technical Education   II. Profesoional fes for archi- I several I  F/L   I    11    16/89   12/91iArchitectural norviceo and building   I              7,864    1
I                          I  tects for CEP Boghe and CEP/ I            I         I          I              site supervision                        I            I -
LEP Nouokchott                I          I         I          I             I                                        I
10. CFPP                   11. Training specialists          I eoveral I   F    1   12    11/89   12/gllAdvis  on development of new training I            8,640 1
Iprogrm                                               I
12. Profossional fes for            I 1    I  F/L   g   1         11/89   12/S9gArchitoctural services and building                866 I
I  architectI                                                     I             isite supervision                       I             I
-------------          ---I----------------------------  ---I             - I-------I------------------------..I
IE. CFPM li. Director of studies                                I 1    I   F    1   26    11/89    3/91OAdvise director on program content andi           24,446 1
I                          I                                 I          I         I          I             lorganization of training
12. Trainers                      |   2    i   F            40    11/89         |Prepare course content, train          I     87,666 I
Iinstructors, implement training
I                          13  Short-term specialists         several I   F           12    16/89   12/93lPrrpare course content, troin            I     1t,280
|                          i                                 I          I                    I |           linstructors, and advise on specializodl              I
I                          I  I                  I                                I          I             Icourses                                 I
14. Captain of training vessel      I 1          F    1   9       16/90    8/91lCommission vessel, train counterports,l         8,48C  I
I  I                              I         I          I          I             land proparo onboard training program                 l
I                          15. Chief engin er of training       I 1    I   F    I   9        16/90    3/91lComisslon vessel, train counterparts,l          8,468 1
I                          I  vessel                                                         I   I  I      land prepare onboord tra;ning program  I              I
0 I
~0 



NO. OF  ILOCAL OR I TOTAL   I  PERIOD   I                                         I BASE COSTS I
PROJECT COPKENT    I        SPECIALIST SERVICES        I PERSONS I FOREIGN IMANMIITHS IFROM    TO  I      SUMMARY JOB DEARIPTION         i (UN l00)  1
III. IWROVED PLANNING
I    A~SND MANAGEMENT
|A. Strengtnning MEN      !1. Educational planner for PC        I    I   F    I   as   13/89    2/921Cneral educational planning, mnsage-           26,280 |
II                               I         |         I          I            lant and training task*. Assist In
I                         I                                I         |         |           I            tpreparation of studies and troin
!  I                             I         I         I          I            Icounterparts in planning tools,
II                               I                   I                       Iresearch and statistics                I            I
|                         12 Short-term consultant. for   I ever l I  L/F   |   24   11/89    6/931Provido assistance In preparation of  |           19,272
$                 |  D~~~~~~PC in gtistics, school                                              l   2Itudies, conduct a,valuations and
t                 | ~~~~~~pping, plsnning evaluation                                            i    trnining cour                      l      
|                 |  *~~~~~~nd  econowics of education                                                                                               I
138 Architoct/SCS                    1         F    1   36    11/89   12/91JEnsur  mimplementation of the school   I    26,136
I                  |          |            Iconstruction program and establish SCSI
lin itn functions                      I            I
I                       ~~~                                            ~     ~~~~I  I  I
14 Short-term Specialist SCS    i   1    I   F    I   3         I1/89   12/91gPrepar user guide for proventive       I      1,261 1
I  I                                                             I ~~~~~oinoanoI,
I  I                                                             I ~~~~~~II
1                                                               11 Tchnicin  I    L    i   e0    Il/S9   12/93IFacility planning and budgeting  I     8,540 | v
I  I                                            I           I                               I0I  I                   II
6  Personnel managment             I 1    I   F    1   12    14/S9    3/90IAdvis  on updating of personnel          1      8,7e0 o
I                             s npocialist                           I          I                               a Irecords and computerization of thnse  I  I
II                                         I         I          I             rIeords
II                               I         II        I          I                                                    I            I
1S. Coordination          11. Humn Resource Economist      I   I    I   F    I   15   16/89   12/90lAssist in defining role and function             18,140 I
I         I         I          |            lof Human Resource Unit in Ministry of I
|  I  I    |        |          |            IFinance; conduct studies and train    j
I  I  I   I         I          IIlcounterparts                                      I            I
12. Short-term specialists       I severl I   F    I   16    19/89   12/93lProvide assistance In preparation of            12,727 I
I  I                             I         I         I          I            istudies and in conducting seminars *ndl             I
I  I      I         I          I            Itraining of counterparts              I             I
I            I          I         I          I           ~~~                                            ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~I II
I3. Specialist in Training for   I   1    I   F    1   12    16/89    6/90lAssist In defining training noeds in  ;    10,260 i
I  Fishery Sector                I         I         I          I            Ifishery sector, conduct studies and   I             I
I  I                             I         I         I          I            Itraining                               I
I-- --- ----_- -_- ---- -I-              _                     _    __ I---------_I       I            I   ----------------------------------_II
Do z
0 
4D



I  I                            I NO. OF  ILOCAL OR I TOTAL   I  PERIOD   I                                      I BASE COSTS I
PROJECT COWONENT    I      SPECIALIST SERVICES       I PERSONS I FOREIGN  MANUONTHS IFROM   TO  I       SUMMARY JOB DESCRIPTION       I (UM '8)  I
----    -- --- ---        ----------      ---   --.    -------  ---------------               - ----------------------- -- --- ---
IC. Project Unit         11. Director                     I   1         L    I   80    il/89  12/9310veral responsibility for project            6,740 1
I                        1                                I        I         I          I            lispementation, coordination of sub-         I     l
I                        I  I                      I                                    I icomponenta, relationship witb. IDA and
I  I                                                I          I           IM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADB
12. Adinistrtor                              L/F   |    80   11/89  12/93|Advisor to director; prepares annual  |    17,320 I
I            I                   I          I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~work programs, budgets, handles   I
i           | I  I  Iprocurem_nt of goods and services,    I    i
I                               I         I         I         I |Imainttinu project accounts, prepares  l                     I
l                        l                               I         I         I          i            lwithdrawal applications
3i. Secretary                   |   1    |   L    I   680   11/89  12/93sAssists director and projoct             I     8,580 I
i                        i                                I        lI        i          i            ladministrator                        i
I                        14. Accountant                   I   1    I   L    I   e8    11/S9  12/93lAssists project administrator in        1      2,434 1
I        I         I l   l    I            Imaintaining project occounts         I
16. Support Staff               I   S    I   L    1  480    11/89  12/93iTypists, drivors, orderly, office        |     7,5a4 |
I  I    I          I            ~~~~~~~~helprerII
I                        1.8 Short-torm consultants      isevoral  I  L/F   1   14    11/B9  12/93lAssist in conducting studies, evalum- I    11,789 I
l                        I                                I        I         I          I            Itions and preparation of bidding     I            I
I  I                            I         I         I         I             documents                             I            I
I                 ~~~                                   ~ ~      ~~I  I  I  I     I           I                                      I            I
17. Architect                   I   1    I   F    I   U8    11/89  12/91AssIst In implementation of all          I    29,634 i
I                        lIl                                       I         I          I            Icivil works components               l            I
lI. Consultants for pre-        leaveral  I  L/F   I   as    11/91  12/93lAssist in preparation of future              26,243 i
I                        I  investment studies            I        I         I          I            IprojectI
1                        19. Auditor                          1    I   F    I            1/91  12/9alAnnual independent audit of project   I      6,445 
I                  I~~                                  ~ ~      ~ ~~ I    I      I           laccountsII
TOTAL BASE COST3 SPECIALIST SERVICES      436,777
Summary of
Specialist Servicos             Man-monthe          U of total
Foreign                        649               30X 5                                                                  >
Local                        1,281               70X                                                                  C z
TOTAL                        1,810              10x
0 I
b:ann3-19.wkl
(*ar)



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Suonary of Local and Foreign Training
I                        I                               I NO. OF  ILOCAL OR I TOTAL   I  TIMING   I  SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIES  IBASE COSTSI
I   PROJECT COMPONENT    I FIELD OF STUDY/TYPE OF SEMINAR I PERSONS I FOREIGN IMANMONTHS IFROM   TO  I        OF PARTICIPANTS         l(UN 'I0M) I
II. EXPAND AND IMPROVE    I                              I         I
PRIMARY EDUCATION
---- -------I---I-I--
IA. Classroom Construc-   11. Regional launching seminars  I  60    I   L    1   30    11/89   e/93lRegional staff involved in               973 I
I  tion                  I                               I         I         I          I            ischool construction
I                 ~~~                                   ~ ~~I  I  I    I          I           III
18. Textookes and In-    11. Yearly *minars for DREF     I  120   1   L    I   6e    16189   8/93lRegional Inspectors, pdagogical I   6,006 |
Service Training     I  staff                         I         I        I          I             staff
I
I                        12. Yearly seminars for ENI         100   I   L    I   56   le/e9   8/93lTeachers at ENIs, national and   I   666W
I                        I  teachers, pedagogical advi-  I         I         I          I            Irogional pedagogical advisors andl
I  sors and inspectors          I         I        I          I            linspectors                       I                cr
I  I                            I    I    I        I                       I                                 I          I     o
IS. In-service training for     1 306     I   L    I 1,6W   18/89   8/93lToachers in primary schools         I  406,66 1
primary teachers            I         I         I          I            I                                I          I
I           ,                                             I        I         I    ,           .                       .                          I
IC. More Efficient       11. In-service training in       1  30    I   L    I   9       18/90   9/90ITo teach in the 30 classes "            200 1
Resource Use         I  double-shift teaching                             I I  I    I            lexperimenting with double-shift
I  I                            I I                 I         I             teaching
III. IMPROVEMENT         I                                I        I         I          I            I                                I          I
SECONDARY AND HIGMER                                 I         I        I          I            I
EDUCATION
IA. Science in Secondary  |1. In-serivce training in      I  220 6      L    I  165    16/89   8/90lScience teachers in *econd        I   4,628 |
I  Education             I  science teaching              I        I         I          I            icycle secondary education
I                        I                                I        I         I          I            III
le. Science in Higher    11. In-service training in       1  12    I   F    1   24    11/90   12/90lScience teachers/technicians          1 06,632 i    z
I  Education             I  science teaching              I        I         I          I            lot the ISS                                 I |    z
I                 ~~~ ~~I                          I         I         I          I           I                                 I          I 
IC. CFPP                 11. In-serivc- training of       I several I   F    I   6      11/89  12/90lIn*tructore at the CFPP          I   2,166 I    c '
I                        I  instructors                   I        I         I          I            I                                 t             -'"-'
I                        I                                I        I         I          I            I                                 I         I   o
ID. CFPM                 11. In-service training of       I several I   F    1   12   11/89  12/90lInstructors at the CFPM            I   3,6oo I
I                        I  instructors                   II                 I          I            I                                I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------____-- __--------------------------------------------------------------- _



I                               I NO. OF  ILOCAL OR I TOTAL   I  TIMING   I  SUMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIES   IBASE COSTSI
I   PROJECT COMPONENT    I FIELD OF STUDY/TYPE OF SEMINAR I PERSONS I FOREIGN IMANMONTHS IFROM   TO  I        OF PARTICIPANTS         ILW 'M 0) I
1111. IMPROVED PLANNING   I                               I        I         I          I            I                                           I
AND MANAGEMENT      I                               I         I         I         I            I                                 I          I
IA. Strengthening the MEN II. Training In educational       several I   F    1   72    18/89   6/93IStaff of the DPC                    I 16,b12 I
planning, statistics, school I        I         I          l           I                                 I          I
I                        I  mopping and management        I        I         I          I
I                        12. Training in personnel        I several I   F    1   12   16/89   6/91IStaff of the Directorste of             1,762
II  maonagement                                           I        I         I          I            IPersonnel
I                 ~~~                                   ~ ~~I  I  I    I          I           II 
13. Training in school          I   1    I   F    I   10    11/90  12/9WIChief of School Construction        I   1,948
I  construction                 I         I         I         I            lUnit
I          I                              ~     ~ ~      ~ ~        ~ ~         ~    ~~~                                     ~ ~~I  I  I  I  III
14. Two school mapping          I  80    I   L    I   30    18/89   8/90ITwo persons from each DREF          I     760
I  seminars                     I         I         I         I            I                                 l
I                 ~~~                                   ~ ~~I  I  I    I          I           III
16. Yearly seminars in education I  80    I   L    I   76    18/89   8/93IThree to four persons for each         2,2560
I  statistics and planning      I         I         I         I            IDREF reponsiblo for education    I          I
I                              I         I        I          I            Istatistices and planning         I          I
I                               I         I         I         I            I                                 I          I
IS. Yearly seminar on personnol  1  20    I   L    1   25   le/89   8/93I0ne to two persons from each        I     6m I
I  administration               I         I         I         I            IDREF                             I
I                               I         I         I         I            I                                 I               a,~
17. Study tours for MEN staff    I several I   F    I   10   11/89  12/93ITwo international/regional         1   29060
I                        I                                I        I         I          I            ltrips per yr for MEN staff       I         I
I                        I                                I        I         I          I            I                                 I         I
18. Launching seminar           I  40    I   L    1   36    11/90  12/93gRegional staff involved in          1   1,120
II                              I         I        I          I            ischool construction
IB. Coordination         |1. National seminars on relationi several I   L    |   30    16/89   9/93jSeminars orgonized by Ministry       I 1,000 I
I                        I  between education and employ-I         I         I          I            lof Finance for staff ongagd In             I
I                        I  ment                          I        I         I          I            Icoordinating training and employ-I         I
I                        I                                I        I         I          I            Iment  n eds                      I          I
TOTAL TRAINING             93,732
Summary of
Trsining                   Man-months          S of total
Foreign                         148                7%
Local                         2,009               93%                                                                 I
TOTAL                         2,156              100%
b:ann3-20.wkl (min)



- 162 -
ANNEX 3-21
Page I of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement Procedures
Part A.   Procurement of Goods and Works
1.        Except as provided for in Part C hereof, goods (furniture,
non-pedagogical equipment and pedogogical materials) shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' published by the Bank in May 1986 (the
guidelines).
Part B.  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
2.        In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, good manufactured locally may be granted a
margin of preference of 15Z in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. Procurement under local procedures does
not qualify for preference.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
3.        All civil works contracts and goods contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of between US$15.000 and US$150,000 equivalent per contract,
which are not likely to attract overseas foreign firms, would be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally (LCB), in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided that: (i) the aggregate amount of such procurement
shall not exceed the equivalent of US$5.9 million equivalent: (ii) all bids
shall be opened in public: (iii) criteria for evaluatina bids shall be set
out clearly and communicated to all bidders: (iv) no preference margin
shall be granted to domestic manufacturers or suppliers: and (v) foreign
companies shall not be required to be incorporated in Mauritania in order
to participate in the bidding.
4.        Items (office supplies, spare parts, gasoline) that cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least USS15.000 equivalent provided the
aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed US$4 million
equivalent, would be procured through international and local shopping on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three foreign or local
suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.



- 163 -
ANNEX 3-21
Page 2 of 3
Part D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decision
1.   Prior Review
5.        For all contracts or bid packages of at least US$150,000
equivalent, each of the following stages in the procurement process would
be subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before
they are implemented and finalized:
-    Advertisement
-    Prequalification (if called for)
-    Bidding documents and addenda
-    Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
-    Contract documents
-    Subsequent major modifications of the contract
2.   Initial Review
6.        For all contracts valued at up to US$150,000 equivalent, an
initial review, followed by a post review or a random review depending on
the size of the contract, by IDA staff would be required for standard
documents which are common to a number of procurement operations, for
example:
-    the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
-    the prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
-    standard registers of prequalified contractors; and
-    standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders,
general conditions of contract and, in some instances, technical
specifications.
3.   Post Review
7.        For all contracts or bid packages estimated at between US$15,000
and US$150,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts, together with
the bidding documents, bid evaluation and award decision, would be
furnished to IDA for post review before the first application for
withdrawal of credit fund against these contracts.
Random Review
8.        The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of Part D, (1), (2)
and (3) shall not apply to contracts valued at under US$15,000 equivalent
on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained at the Project Coordination Unit for random review by IDA
supervision missions and for regular semi-annual audits.



- 164 -
ANNEX 3-21
Page 3 of 3
Part E.   Specialist Services and Fellowships/Local Training
9.        Specialist services and training abroad, including audit
services, valued at US$5.3 million equivalent, would be contracted in
accordance with IDA's guidelines and on the basis of invitation for
proposals from three to six qualified and experienced consultant firms and
agencies and on an exceptional basis, from individual specialists. Local
training represents US$0.87 million equivalent and would be carried out
under principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part F. Participation by Foreign Firms
10.       About 59? of the contracts for works and goods would be procured
through LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA: if foreign firms
wish to participate under these circumstances, they would be allowed to do
so in accordance with local procedures.
Part G.
11.       The figure of 5? would be specified for the purposes of
paragraph h of Appendix 1 to the guidelines (related to any material
modification or waiver of the terms and conditions of contracts or granting
a material extension of the stipulated time, or issuing any change order
under such contract which would increase the cost of contracts by more than
5 of the original price).
bsann3-21.txt
(min)



EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT/PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE/PROFIL DES DEBOURSEMENTS
Disbursements/D.boursements               Profile/Profil
__________________________        ------------------------------
Regional
Sector/
IDA Fiscal Years                                                                   Secteur a
and Quarters/IDA          By Quart4r/    Cumulative/                                l'echell-
Anne.s budgetaires        Per trimeatre  Cumulatif           Project/Projet         regionale
at trimestros             (US8 Million)  (US$ Million)              (X)                (X)
1989      3                    1.2             1.2                   6
4                    O.1             1.3                  I                  a
19980     1                    0.2             1.6                   8
2                    0.3             1.8                 10                  5
3                    0.6             2.8                 13
4                    0.6             2.8                 15                 11
1991      1                    0.4             8.2                  18                         _De.f-                                                   +
2                    o.8             3.5                 19                 17       *                                      n
8                    9.e             4.1                 23                             o -
4                    6.6             4.6                 25                 24
u on + Regional Sector Profile/
1992      1                    6.7             5.3                 29                             o-   Profil du secteur A       U         
1992  1               ~~~~6.8          8.1                 24                              a    1'dchelle r6gionale
3                    0.              S. 1                 43 
3                    068             6.9                a38 
4                    6.9             7.8                 43                 42       a
1993      1                    1.5             9.3                 S1                             -                           n+-
2                    1.4            10.7                 59                 52          4 
3                    1.8            12.3                 es8                         4
4                    1.8            14.1                 77                 61          ,
Disbursemnt Profile/
1994      1                    2.3            16.4                 90                             2                                    Prof il eatiastif de&
2  0.9        17.3                 9S                 7e 6                   u y                     dibouroments du
3                                                        g.o 17.8  96                . .-       n                           Projet
4                    0.4            18.2               1N                  77                  +
19195     1
2                                                                           84           FY89 FY90  FY91   FY92   F93   FY94   FY95   FY96  Fm7
3
4                                                                           8e                          Fiscal Years/AnnEes budg4thirec
Ascming loan effectiveness during the third
199      1                                                                                                 quarter of FY89/AuyS9/c lbypothiso quo le credit
199694 1etrera on vigutur *a courc du troistiEe
2                                                                                                triaetr* de lan'e  bugtairo 69.
4                                                                           9
1997      1
2                                                                          10 
4                                                                                                                                                    X
B:NIG



- 166 -
ANNEX 3-23
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Government and Local Contributions
1.         The Government's financial contribution to the project is
estimated at UM 49 million, equivalent to US$0.68 million or 2Z of the
total project cost. The Government contribution represents 20Z of the
operating costs, except those related to the Maritime Training Center,
where the private sector contribution allows the reduction of government
counterpart financing to 16Z.
2.         The contributions provided by local communities and the private
sector, generated from the parents' associations (APEs) and local taxes for
the school construction program, and by the industrial fisheries sector for
supporting a portion of the recurrent costs of the Maritime Training
Center, are estimated at about UM 114 million, equivalent to US$1.57
million or 42 of total project cost. For the school construction program,
the local communities would finance in kind (labor, local building
materials, sanitary facilities and fencing) and through cash contributions,
which should represent 50Z of the construction costs.
3.         The table below shows the breakdown of the Government, local
communities and private sector contributions by expenditure category and
calendar year.
GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND CALENDAR YEAR
(tw, Um.
Bsee Cost/     Exponditure     1989    1990    1991    1992    1998
Financing       Cont.Incl       Category        1        2       8       4       6    TOTAL
Government       Base Cost     Operating Costs   5,417   7,616   9,156   9,169   9,169  40,406
Contingencies                   674   1.241   1,918   2.862   2.823   9.019
Total (including
contingencies)                 6,091   8,756  11,078  11,522  11,988  49,426
_        =       3=    =-   == .
Private Sector   Base Cost     Operating Costs    1,068   1,476   1,797   1,798   1,798   7,932
(Indu.F1isherle)  Contingencies                  182    244      877    464      664   1,771
Tot l (including
contingencies)                 1,196   1,719   2,174   2,262   2,852   9,708
I   =   =m=                     C:====
Local Comunities  BOs Cost     Community Input    2,812  21,974  26,020  27,744     0  78,0650
Contingencies                   465   6.006   8,761  10.814       0  26,029
Total (including
contirgencles)                 2,777  27,974  84,771  88,658      0 104,079
-_            _9 =   =33=33r-3= =:
Mauritania       Base Cost                      8,792  80,965  86,972  86,702  10,958 126,888
(Government *    Contingencies                  1J272  7.484  11.046  18.640   8.878  86.81
comunities +     Total (including
private sector)    contingenciea)               10,064  86,449  48,61e  C2,842  14,885 168,207
Wann8-28.txt(ser)



MAP SECTION



t0t~~~~~~~~~~~  I'?           ej,                                                                        la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD   2#~
hos fe Shf Oh frh  hIP 00 _t
..t  on h  tns Ma,  h  000  0* Jan  fin  ,cn,ahO*o Ftahco CeteaOen jo  n,OjmeOO  0  fl OCC0O 9- 
CANARY ISLANDS                                             Jr                                                          MAURITANIA
(Spain)                                                                    .*--0  -  KIE.  f                       MAURITANIE
o11\ W4 b    r                    N          THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
- --MOROCCO _2- Ti?O0SIEME PROJET D'EDUCATION
ALGERIA                          UNIVERSITY OF NOUAKCHOTT
"N,                            ~~~~~~~~~~UN! VERSITE DE NOUIAKCHOTT
0   o0 IOD 15D 200 250                                                      1                                         *      HIGHER INSTITUTE OF SCIENCES
K5^"  , _,   J l   '  *'                        INSnTuT SUPERIEUR DE SCIENCES (15)
HIGHER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
\o~~~~ 'N  ~El              CENTRE SUPERIEUR D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECH4NIQUE (CSEJ(
i                            X               J\.                    .   TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
ECOLE NORMALE D'INSTITUTEURS fENI)
\  t   _-,       I        ,f_        ,  ,            +      SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
i             '                 \        '1 |ECOLE NORMALE SUPERIEURE (ENS)
I    t      /                                                        r~~~4--- ~   ,  MARITIME TRAINING AND UPGRADING CENTER
-24r                                                                      T 1IRIS          ,                                        CENTRE OE FORMATION ET DE PERFEC77ONNEMENT MARITIME
i-                     1/      z I /1           2 t               (CFPM)
J   >   ZEMMOUR   1,'    7                                   PROFESSIONAL LYCEE
LYCEE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL
-                            o     ~~~~~~~~~~~PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE- DENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONEL
----------                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~COMMERCIAL LYCEE
-                                                                          Lz -YCEE COMMERCIAL
|     VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND UPGRADING CENTER
0     CENTRE DE FORMATION ET DE PERFECTIONNEMENT
PROFESSIONNEL (CFFP)
1     AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTER
MALI              ~~~~CENTRE DE FORMATION A GRICOLE
REGIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION DIRECTORATE
DIRECTION REGtONAtE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT FONOAMENTAL
(DREF)
20        NOUADHIBOU/   INC HIRi                                 R   A   R              /20
y             Cuour            \\ A                                   H O DH     !
/   K   v  t /   ECH  |               PAVED ROADS
ROUTECS REVETURES
f \<ffIKJA -   -             -      r_ CHARGUI                         RAVEL ROADS
ROUTES EN GRAWER
NOUAKC~HOT!r tt                                                                                                 ------ f    /    f   oz  _____TRACKS
PISTES
RAILROADS
Oh                                                        . >bs N  j                                                CHEMIN DE FER
0A  KNA                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRFIELDS
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0N ELAROCIS   'ANEt'ATERRAINS D'AW1A TION
R.    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ /o                                                       REGION CAPITALS
RCE -!+                           4BAI9XW E                    #A CAPITALES REGIONALES
US $ Ktol1> 4 \ GHARBI I  ,,G                                   1                        NATIONAL CAPITALS
GGSt.v Ltis                                                  -41 y                        CAPITALES
IUlDlt4iKA  -X  ,___ _ __t__ _                                               _ _-  _ _  _   REGION BOUNDARIES
0/                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMTES REGIONALES
'-%ANS1LlBASI                                                               _ _ _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DAKAR                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FROYNTIERES NATIONALES
SENEGAL                                                        MALI                                         INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
(WESTERN SAHARA)
INDJQUIn LE TERRIrOIRE DE L'ANCIEN SAHARA ESPAGNOL
(SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
16'                              12-                                                                                                                          APRIL 1911L
APRIL IMU



