Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15739
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC O MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CR.1943-MAU)
JUNE 4,1996
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,
_ __



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Ouguiya (UM)
At the time of appraisal in January 1988
US$ 1.00           =      UM 72.6
At the time of credit closing in December 1995
US $ 1.00          =     UM 120
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Im. = 1.09 yd.
1 sq. m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      African Development Bank
CFD      Caissefran,aise de developpement
CFPP     Centre deformation et de perfectionnement professionnel
CFPM     Centre deformation maritime professionnelle
DPEF    Direction des projets education etformation, the Project Coordination Unit
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISS      Institut superieur scientifique, Higher Institute of Science
MEN      Ministere de 1'education nationale
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
FISCAL YEAR                                                   SCHOOL YEAR
January 1-December 31                                            October-June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Cr. 1943-MAU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............................................................................................................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................................i
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..............................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATION ...................................8
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................................8
PART t: STATISTICAL TABLES ..................................11
Table 1:             Summary of Assessment .................................                                                           12
Table 2:             Related Bank Credits ..................................11
Table 3:             Project Timetable .................................                                                               13
Table 4:             Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ....................................... 13
Tables 5 &  6:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation ...................................... 14
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project .14
Table 8A: Project Costs .15
Table 8B: Project Financing .16
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .16
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .17
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .21
APPENDICES
A. Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
MAP IBRD 28083
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CR. 1943-MAU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education
Sector Restructuring Project in Mauritania, for which Credit 1943-MAU in the amount of
SDR 13.2 million (US$ 18.2 million equivalent) was approved on July 19, 1988 and made
effective eight months later on April 14, 1989.
The credit closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original
closing date of June 30, 1994. It was fully disbursed with the last disbursement taking
place on April 3, 1996. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the African
Development Bank (ADB) in the amount of US $17.0 million. Later, the success of the
classroom construction program leveraged an additional US $3.5 million provided by the
Caisse fran aise de developpement between 1993-1995.
The ICR is based on the findings of the Bank's final supervision mission in
March 1996, discussions of the findings with the Borrower, input from former task
managers, and materials in the project files. The report was prepared by Ms. Rosemary
Bellew (task manager, AF5PH) and Mr. William Cooper (Consultant) with contributions
from Mr. Serge Theunynck (Consultant). It was reviewed by Messrs. Ok Pannenborg
(Chief, Population and Human Resources Division), Emmerich Schebeck (Project
Adviser), and Rene Vaurs, Birger Fredriksen and Bernard Abeille, former task managers
of the project. The Borrower provided its evaluation of project implementation which is
included in the report as Annex B.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CR. 1943-MAU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                        Cr. 1943-MAU
Credit Amount:                        SDR 13.2 million (US$ 18.2 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                        Ministries of Education, Labor, Fisheries, and
Finance
Date effective:                       April 14, 1989
Date closed:                          December 31, 1995
Cofinancing:
African Development Bank            US$ 17.0 million
Caissefrangaise de developpement    US$ 3.5 million in 1993-95
INTRODUCTION
1.          This project was IDA's third contribution to the development of education
and training in Mauritania, and the first investment credit to support adjustment in the
sector. The first education project (Cr. 459) financed low-cost basic education to the
rural population and established a vocational training center. The second project (Cr.
1214) focused on expanding and improving vocational training and teacher training while
improving the country's capacity in educational planning and administration.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.          The Third Education Project (Cr. 1943) financed part of a program that
aimed to: (a) correct distortions in resource allocations and use in the education sector,
(b) increase access to, and improve the quality, of primary education, and improve (c) the
quality of science teaching in secondary and higher education, (d) the quality and
relevance of technical and vocational education, and (e) education sector planning and
management capacities. Cofinanciers were the ADB, and later the CaissefranVaise de
developpement and the Coop&rationfranVaise.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3.          Program objectives relating to sector resource allocations and use were
substantially achieved. The pattern of government allocations to and within the education
sector show that priority was given to primary education. Cost-saving targets relating to
scholarship expenditures and expatriate staff were implemented as intended in secondary



ii
and higher education. However, the education budgetfell in real terms by about 0.4% a
year, leading to a steep decline in per student expenditure at all levels of education.
4.          The main objectives relating to expanding access to primary education --
construction of 250 new classrooms and expansion of multigrade teaching -- were
considerably exceeded. The construction program combined with an expansion of
multigrade teaching enabled the (gross) primary enrollment ratio to increase from 48% in
1988/89 to 78% in 1994/95, a dramatic achievement in such a short time.
5.          Results pertaining to quality improvements are difficult to discern. At the
primary level, project supported activities (textbooks, science kits and teacher training)
have had little visible impact on improvements in the learning environment.
6.          During project implementation, the performance of the Bank and the
Borrower was satisfactory. Bank staff provided considerable input into project
preparation, and supervision missions were frequent. Staff continuity was acceptable but
the skills mix could have been better. On the Borrower's side, policies were widely
advertised and explained. The DPEF competently carried out its functions of managing
the credit, coordinating and monitoring project inputs, and maintaining contact with IDA
and the donor community.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
7.          Findings. Project outcomes are satisfactory with respect to the main
objectives of increasing primary enrollment, correcting expenditure distortions in the
sector, reorienting students towards science education, and increasing opportunities in
maritime training. Institutional development and management outcomes are few. In terms
of improving the quality of primary education, no positive outcome is obvious -- a
significant number of students do not have books, and the impact of in-service teacher
training on the effectiveness of teachers is limited.
8.          Three factors that positively affected the project were: (i) a favorable
sector policy environment supportive of change, and strong Government commitment to
the sectoral objectives, (ii) an effective demand-driven community-managed classroom
construction program, and (iii) excellent monitoring of procurement, sector financing, and
implementation of sector objectives by the DPEF which permitted the identification of
problems and facilitated corrective action. Factors that had a negative effect on project
implementation and sustainability were: limited technical expertise in general, limited
capacity of local architectural/engineering firms, and, in some cases, inappropriate
management of technical assistance by the Ministry of Education.
9.          Future Operation. Prior to credit closing, two other education projects
were approved -- a Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project (Cr.
2521, June 1993) and a General Education Project (Cr. 2706, May 1995). The former
supports a package of institutional measures and investments for vocational and technical



iii
education and professional training for the fisheries sector. The latter supports the
Government's education sector program for 1995-2000 which aims, inter alia, to achieve
full primary enrollment by the year 2000, improve education quality at all levels, and
improve the efficiency of resource use. Future operations would do best to focus on
institutional development, higher education, and the quality of primary education.
10.          Lessons learned. The project provides the following six lessons for the
education sector.
(a) Five main factors were critical to the enormous success of the classroom
construction program: (i) community management of the construction process, including
financial management; (ii) verifiable and transparent criteria for the allocation of funds; (iii)
simple disbursement procedures; (iv) good technical support services provided to
communities by local technicians; and (v) a simple low-cost construction design.
(b) In cases where education receives a significant share of the Government
budget, there is a high probability of disconnect between sector expansion objectives and
public expenditure under adjustment. Under adjustment, it is difficult to maintain or
improve quality or management while access to education expands if short-term measures
are not taken to ensure the financing of operating costs until other revenue generating
mechanisms -- such as cost recovery in secondary and higher education and improved tax
collection -- are put into place.
(c) The difficulty of vocational and technical training institutions in responding to
changing labor market needs may be attributed to three things: (i) when the vocational
training base is weak, a significant amount of lead time is required for institutions to adjust
programs and acquire the skills and equipment needed; (ii) program development needs to
be supported by regular and reliable labor market, and economic analyses; and (iii)
particular attention should be given to developing appropriate strategies that would give
greater leverage to employers in decisions concerning program offerings.
(d) Recruitment standards for local architectural/engineering firms should be
maintained regardless of the origin and level of competence of competing firms. Short-
lists should still ensure that all listed firms have the requisite experience.
(e) Attempts to strengthen the capacity of Ministries of Education in planning,
monitoring, research and management will be futile unless a significant effort is made to
fill such positions with individuals with relevant prior academic training and experience.
(f) Cofinancing provided by a weak cofinancier can negatively affect project
implementation, particularly within the context of a program approach. Greater attention
should be given to an assessment of the reliability and professionalism of cofinanciers
before cofinancing decisions are made. Alternatively, support by unreliable cofinanciers
should be kept as separate as possible.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(CR. 1943-MAU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.          The project financed part of a program that aimed to: (a) correct
distortions in resource allocations and use in the education sector, (b) increase access to,
and improve the quality, of primary education, and improve (c) the quality of science
teaching in secondary and higher education, (d) the quality and relevance of technical and
vocational education, and (e) education sector planning and management capacities.
Cofinanciers were the ADB, and later the Caissefran aise de d&veloppement and the
Cooperationfran9aise.
2.          The objectives of the program correctly identified the main sector issues of
distortions in budgetary allocations, limited access to ptimary education, and low internal
and external efficiency of the system. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's
strategy for improving public expenditure management in Mauritania and for promoting
the development of primary education in low-income, low-enrollment countries. Project
design, however, was complex, including 14 sub-components involving four Ministries.
The number of objectives and activities supported by project taxed the implementation
capacity of the Borrower which resulted in implementation delays, and rendered project
management more difficult. Nevertheless, project objectives were eventually satisfactorily
achieved, with the exception of those pertaining to vocational and technical education and
improved management capacities which were only partially achieved. Throughout, the
impact on quality is difficult to discern.
3.          The risks identified at project appraisal were: (i) Government's ability to
contain the growth of expenditure on secondary and higher education in order to provide
additional resources to increase access to primary education, and (ii) the capacity of the
economy to generate gainful employment for technical/vocational education graduates.
Annual reviews of budgetary allocations and expenditure, coupled with the strong
commitment of Government to expand primary education, resulted in higher expenditure
on primary education. However, in real terms, expenditures were significantly lower than
projected due to subsequent agreements with the IMF and the World Bank to contain the
growth of Government expenditure. With regard to the second risk, the project did not
include any specific intervention to create employment. Rather, the approach was to
introduce greater diversity and flexibility into the vocational training system to make it
more responsive to growth areas of the economy.



2
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.           Program objectives related to sector resource allocations and use were
substantially approximated. They included: (i) increased allocations to primary education
to support its expansion, (ii) lower per student expenditure at all levels of education, and
(iii) increased private financing of education.
5.           Annex Table 5 shows the budgetary targets and results. The objective of
giving priority to primary education was substantially achieved. However, budgetary
targets in the project were expressed in terms of real growth rates of recurrent budgets --
Government budget (3%), education budget (6%), primary education (9%), and so on --
that would be required to obtain certain enrollment ratios. Throughout the project period,
the Government budget declined in real terms by about 1.9% a year. Allocations to
education declined less steeply, and those to primary education increased in real terms by
2.6% a year while allocations to other levels of education declined significantly. Within
this context of declining resources, budgetary targets were replaced during implementation
by the number of additional teachers needed annually to staff the growing number of
schools. Government performed satisfactorily in financing the additional salaries, however
resources for operating costs, low to start, became increasingly insignificant. This also
had a negative impact on project expenditure as during implementation project funds were
used to finance recurrent costs that should have been financed by the budget, increasing
the operating costs of the project and allowing the MEN to operate without significant
efforts to raise its budget to a level required to sustain project activities.
6.           Table 1 shows that real per student expenditure declined significantly at all
levels of education as enrollment growth exceeded budget growth. Cost saving targets
related to reducing scholarship expenditure and expatriate staff were implemented as
intended. In higher education, scholarship expenditures were frozen at their 1988 level,
and foreign staff were reduced by 50%. At the secondary level, scholarship expenditures
were also frozen, and nearly all foreign staff were replaced.
Table 1. Per Student Expenditure
Base year 1988/89   1994/95
Unit Costs in 1988 UM
Primary Education   6,500 (US$ 54)    4,380 (US$ 37)
Secondary Education  27,370 (US$ 228)  22,200 (US$ 185)
Higher Education  104,402 (US$ 870)  64,400 (US$ 537)
7.           Measures to expand private financing of education included: (i) community
contributions to school construction equivalent to 25% of total construction costs in rural
areas and 50% in urban areas, (ii) introducing a textbook sales system for primary
students, and (iii) adopting policies to stimulate the growth of private education. The first
two measures were introduced without any apparent detrimental effect on demand. No
substantive program was developed to address the promotion of private education.
Nevertheless, private primary school enrollment increased from 170 to 1,420; secondary
enrollment increased from about 600 to 2,000 (or 1.7% of total enrollment in 1988 to
4.5% in 1994) due to a high unmet demand for secondary education.



3
8.          The main objectives related to expanding access to primary education --
construction of 250 new classrooms and expansion of multigrade teaching -- were
considerably exceeded. Because community demand for schools far surpassed the
resources provided by the credit, financing for classroom rehabilitation and school
furniture was reallocated to new primary classroom construction. This combined with a
low-cost construction design (30% lower than estimated) brought the number of
classrooms constructed by the credit to 450. Between 1993-1995, Government allocated
about US$ 3.5 million in counterpart funds (generated through the structural adjustment
program supported by the CFD) for the construction of 600 classrooms, bringing the total
number of classrooms constructed during the project period to 1,020 with a total cost
sharing by communities equivalent to 50% of construction costs. This result was made
possible by a demand-driven strategy for classroom construction, effective community
mobilization, transparency of eligibility criteria, low cost of construction (US$
5,500/classroom), a simple architectural design adapted to local construction practices,
and efficient technical management by local engineers. The construction program
combined with an expansion of multigrade teaching from 198 classes in 1991/92 to 600 in
1994/95 (12% of all classes) enabled primary enrollment to increase from 48% in 1988/89
to 78% in 1994/95. This is a dramatic achievement in such a short time.
9.          Objectives related to improving the quality of primarv education have not
been achieved. The development of manuscripts for 24 textbook titles and printing of
350,000 copies were financed by the ADB. Since the French Cooperation ended up
providing 5 titles, project objectives were changed to 317,000 copies of 17 titles. IDA
financed storage facilities and training for teachers in book use. By the time the IDA
credit closed, 11 of the 17 titles had not been delivered. However, all are with the
publishers and delivery is expected shortly. Significant delays are attributable to: (i) a lack
of expertise among staff of the National Pedagogical Institute responsible for manuscript
development which resulted in drafts that required considerable editing, (ii) long and
cumbersome procurement procedures, and (iii) the ADB's slow response time.
10.         To ensure the financial sustainability of the provision of textbooks, books
were to be sold and the proceeds, along with a Government allocation, were to be
deposited into a fund account to finance reprints and operating costs of the sales system.
The system is far from being self-sustainable partly because books are sold at "symbolic
prices" (largely subsidized) and Government made no counterpart provisions for the fund
during the project period. The latter is due in part to a lack of clarity on the amount that
should be allocated to the fund and an incomplete understanding of Government as to the
objectives and operating procedures of the fund. The fund, however, did provide
resources to finance the operation of the system which would probably not have been
possible given declining Government revenue.
11.         IDA supported in-service training for primary teachers, 2 weeks for 3,000
teachers to update knowledge in pedagogical methods and curriculum revision, and equip
teachers to tackle the challenges of multigrade and double-shift teaching. Two sessions of
about five days for all 4,000 teachers and 140 inspectors were delivered. Although little
information is available on the content of the sessions, and no evaluation of their impact
has been conducted, field visits suggest that sessions had too many participants, were



4
mainly intended to pass along infornation, and were at times conducted under the
supervision of the pedagogical institute by individuals having little more understanding of
the subject than the trainees. Based on this information, in-service training supported by
the project probably did not achieve the intended objectives.
12.         Targets related to science education were financed by the ADB and were
largely unachieved within the time frame of the project, but are expected to be attained
shortly. For secondary education, the ADB provided financing for the construction of 3
science laboratories, science kits for other classrooms, revising programs, teacher training,
and printing of 18 math and science titles (150,000 copies). The labs will not be
operational before September 1996. Science kits were delivered; however, those for
environmental and health education do not match the curricula due to revisions after the
kits were delivered. Books are still in publication. Significant coverage in teacher
training, however, was achieved due to the interventions of the PARSEM program
financed by the French Cooperation which began in 1992, and a significant shift in
enrollment from humanities to science has occurred 40% of total enrollment in 1988 to
50% in 1994).
13.         At the post-secondary level, project objectives have not been achieved.
The project intended to provide permanent teaching facilities in Rosso, science equipment
and books for the Institut superieur des sciences (IS S), which would focus on applied
sciences in natural resources, food security, the environment, and communication and
information sciences. Civil works for the ISS have not been completed due to delays in
procurement and architectural studies, unanticipated problems with the foundations of the
buildings, and related cost overruns for which financing has not been secured. Teaching
equipment delivered in 1993 is being used at the ISS's temporary accommodations on the
University of Nouakchott campus. In view of a decision taken in 1995 to create a faculty
of science at the University, the future of the ISS is undecided at present. This issue will
be considered within the preparation of a long-term development plan for higher
education, which is being financed under a new credit (Cr. 2706).
14.         Project objectives related to improving the quality and relevance of
secondary technical education were partially achieved. They included measures and
investments to restructure and diversify training while expanding capacity and minimizing
costs. The system was successfully restructured and diversified. Entry level requirements
were raised, and time on technical subjects was increased as intended. Programs offered
by the two secondary technical schools in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou were expanded to
include construction and mechanics in the former, and metal work in the latter; a
commercial school in Nouakchott was built; and an agricultural college (in Boghe) will be
fully operational in 1996. Over the project period, enrollments varied between 800 and
1,200 and output averaged 500, less than the 1,300 enrollment and 650 output projected
at appraisal. Government recurrent expenditure was contained to about 2.7% of the
education budget, and the number of expatriate teachers was reduced from 82 in 1987/88
to 48 in 1993/94, approximately as intended.
15.         Increased participation of employers in developing and financing technical
education remains an elusive goal. A National Council for Vocational and Technical



5
Education, intended to provide technical guidance to the system and strengthen relations
among institution and between institutions and employers, was set up as planned.
However, it seldom met; working committees to analyze issues and support its
deliberations were never established; and important issues of structure, organization,
staffing, and budgets were not addressed. Consequently, coordination among training
institutions, and between institutions and employers, remains very weak, and problems of
matching supply and demand, placing graduates in jobs, and assuring that training content
meets market needs persist. In addition, the proposal that employers could designate a
portion of the training tax levied on them (6% of payroll) to finance the cost of training
their employees in the technical schools was considered unrealistic and was not pursued
under the project.
16.         In vocational education, project achievements are mixed. The project
supported capacity expansion and qualitative improvements to the vocational training and
upgrading center (CFPP) in Nouakchott and the maritime fisheries training center (CFPM)
in Nouadhibou. With respect to the CFPP, the managerial weakness diagnosed during
appraisal resulted in limited project support which was provided as agreed. Two
workshops for air-conditioning and electromechanics were constructed and equipped; a
computer training facility was established; specialist services were provided to assist in the
preparation of new courses; and national staff were trained to teach them. However,
CFPP management performed inadequately; relations with employers did not improve;
enrollment declined; staff became demoralized; and the CFPP was substantially
underutilized. In 1993, as part of project preparation of a subsequent Technical and
Vocational Education Project (Cr. 2521), a new director was appointed and an audit was
conducted which resulted in the departure of unskilled staff, the updating of some course
content, renewed efforts to involve employers, and a staff upgrading program. Progress,
however remains slow.
17.         In maritime training (IDA/ADB cofinanced), objectives related to
improvements in training programs for deckhands and technicians provided by the
Maritime Training Center, acquisition of a fishing training vessel, and the introduction of
pre-officer training were achieved. Project inputs were supplied as scheduled. IDA's
financial support to the center's operating budget was replaced by a contribution of the
Federation of Ship Owners (amounting to 2% percent of its budget). In 1991, however,
Government decided to expand the school's offerings by introducing officer training which
overtaxed the rental facilities and staff. Subsequently, the CFPM entered a period of
decline manifested by weak management, lack of financial control, excessive and
unqualified staff, poorly maintained facilities, and a training vessel lacking certification and
maritime insurance. A technical audit conducted in 1993 resulted in a number of changes
including: the replacement of the director and chief financial officer, dismissal of excessive
staff, oversight of program content and certification of training by the International
Maritime Organization, and the decision to construct a purpose-built facility that would
respect international standards.
18.         The bulk of training and technical assistance financed by the project to
improve planning and management was provided to the MEN and was only slightly
effective. Overall, the capacity building investments and strategies were insufficient



6
relative to the needs of the system, particularly given the management demands of a
rapidly growing system under adjustment. Specific activities financed included five studies
(see Annex Table 6), four of which were completed (the cost and efficiency of secondary
general education, barriers to female education, and multi-grade and double-shift teaching
and the computerization of Education staff). Their results informed the design of a
follow-up General Education Project (Cr. 2706). One is ongoing, namely a tracer study of
technical school graduates. Seven planning unit staff were trained in educational planning
and statistics, and an expatriate planner was attached to the MEN for three years. Despite
the staff training and TA program, the Ministry of Education's (MEN) educational
planning capacity remains limited, due principally to inappropriate staffing profiles.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.         The three most important factors that positively affected the project were,
first, a favorable sector policy environment supportive of change, and strong Government
commitment to the sectoral objectives which resulted in a broad diffusion of those
objectives and their adoption by a large audience. A second factor was the effective
demand-driven community managed classroom construction program which not only
responded to an existing demand but also stimulated demand over time. The coordination
and technical assistance provided to the program by the construction coordinators was
excellent; promotion of the program was extensive; eligibility criteria were transparent;
and a pragmatic system of disbursements allowed for rapid payments to communities.
Third, monitoring of procurement, sector financing, and the implementation of sector
objectives by the Project Coordination Unit (DPEF) was excellent. Detailed information
on dates that procurement actions occurred and on sectoral indicators permitted the
identification of problem areas and facilitated corrective action.
20.         Five factors that had a negative effect on project implementation and
contributed to the minimal achievements in the areas of quality improvements and
management were: (i) limited technical expertise in general, (ii) limited capacity of local
architectural firms which lost most of their qualified staff following the events with
Senegal in 1989, (iii) in some cases, inappropriate management of technical assistance by
the MEN which resulted in technical assistants doing the work rather than training
counterpart staff, (iv) a cumbersome national procurement system with complicated
clearance and approval processes which caused significant delays, (v) and an almost
complete lack of supervision by the ADB and excessive delays in transmitting its non-
objections or comments to Government. In addition, difficulties in vocational and
technical education can be attributed to the dispersion of responsibility for such training
between several ministries, the absence of a common legal framework and reliable
financing mechanisms, and the absence of employers in the training process.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.         Viewed from the perspective of Government commitment/ownership and
the plans for the continued development of the sector, the probability that project
achievements will be maintained is good. At a policy level, the political environment
remains favorable towards expanding primary education. The sectoral policy objectives



7
and plan for the period 1995-2000, supported by the General Education (Cr. 2706) and
Technical and Vocational Training (Cr. 2521) Projects, build on the foundations created
by, inter alia, expanding the community managed primary classroom construction
program, expanding cost-saving innovations such as double-shift and multigrade teaching,
improving quality and management, and evaluating the performance of the sector in terms
of learning achievement and gainful employment.
22.         The primary classroom construction program has established a dynamic of
its own. The sustainability of its achievements, as well as the credibility of Government,
will depend crucially on the provision of adequate financing to continue to satisfy demand
and maintain quality. In technical and vocational education, the sustainability of maritime
training is good in the medium term. Project achievements combined with continued
development of the sub-sector through a follow-up Vocational and Technical Education
Training Project have resulted in employers sharing the cost of training, and the
establishment of an autonomous maritime training center governed by a board of directors
where training is provided according to international standards overseen by the
International Maritime Organization. In other areas of vocational training, sustainability is
questionable and depends crucially on improving management and adopting policies to
consolidate the system and improve its responsiveness to employers' needs. Throughout
the education system, sustaining a growth trajectory while maintaining quality will require
additional public resources or greater cost-sharing with beneficiaries, particularly in
secondary and higher education.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
23.         The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Project identification
and subsequent preparation correctly focused on reducing distortions in the education
system, expanding primary education, and matching manpower supply with labor market
demand. Bank staff provided considerable intellectual input to project preparation by
conducting a number of seminars on issues in higher education, the cost and financing of
education, and procurement procedures. The project was processed smoothly but its
effectiveness was delayed by about eight months due to delays in fulfilling the cross-
effectiveness conditions related to ADB cofinancing. This conditionality was eventually
waived and the credit was declared effective with an eight-month delay. A project launch
seminar was held just prior to credit effectiveness. Supervision missions were regularly
carried out, on average twice a year, and included a mid-term review and a completion
mission. Staff continuity was acceptable but the skills mix could have been better. Due to
infrequent ADB supervision missions, joint supervision was not the norm. However, IDA
supervised all elements of the project including those financed by the ADB.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.         The Borrower's performance was quite satisfactory. At the sectoral level,
policies were widely advertised, explained and implemented, albeit some with delay. The
project coordination unit (DPEF), placed within the Ministry of Plan, was familiar with
IDA procedures and competently carried out its functions of managing the credit,
coordinating the various project inputs and donors, and maintaining contact with IDA and
the donor community. The DPEF was also particularly effective in setting up and



8
maintaining the mechanisms for community mobilization and construction supervision,
assisting the MEN with school mapping, and managing procurement within an
environment of cumbersome procedures. Government complied with credit covenants,
albeit many with delay, and project accounts were well maintained throughout
implementation. The Borrower was less effective in using technical assistants many of
whom felt that the MEN made little effort to make the work collaborative. Therefore,
with the exception of technical assistance and training provided to the National
Pedagogical Institute, the sustainability of institutional development objectives are
doubtful. To address this issue, a technical audit of the MEN is being conducted to
identify training needs and job profiles for Ministry positions.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.         Project outcomes are satisfactory with respect to the main objectives of
increasing primary enrollment, correcting expenditure distortions in the sector, reorienting
students towards science education, and increasing opportunities in maritime training.
Institutional development and management outcomes are few. Planning capacities in the
three ministries assisted under the project were not significantly improved. The program
to strengthen personnel management and administration in the MEN has progressed with
painstaking slowness although control of teacher absence has improved. In terms of
improving the quality of primary education, no positive outcome is evident. A significant
number of students do not have textbooks, and the impact of in-service teacher training on
the effectiveness of teachers is limited.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
26.         The Bank approved two investment credits in the education sector after
this project. The Technical Education and Vocational Training Support Project (Credit
2521) in June 1993 and the General Education Project (Cr. 2706) in May 1995. The
former supports the development of a coherent technical and vocational training system
through a package of institutional measures and an investment program that covers
technical education, vocational training and training for the fisheries sector. The latter
supports the Government's education sector program for 1995-2000 which aims to
achieve full primary enrollment by the year 2000, improve education quality at all levels,
double intake into secondary education, and improve the efficiency of resource
mobilization and use. Both projects extend IDA's support for the sector policies and
programns initiated under the present project. Future operations would do best to focus on
institutional development, scientific, professional, and higher education, and in particular,
now that primary education is on an growth trajectory, IDA should consider assisting
Government to prepare a fairly large scale program to improve the quality of education
and the effectiveness of all levels of management, from the classroom to the center.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
27.         The classroom construction program is a success story that could provide
lessons for other countries. The experience showed that five main factors were critical to
success: (i) the approach to community participation whereby participation was not limited



9
to contributions in cash or in-kind, but encompassed community management of the
construction process, including financial management; (ii) verifiable and transparent
criteria for the allocation of funds; (iii) simple disbursement procedures which allowed
rapid reimbursements to communities for work completed; (iv) good technical support
services provided to communities; and (v) strong local support for the program (See
Box.). The program also challenged a number of assumptions often made in the past and
still common today, namely that demand factors are more important than supply in
increasing primary school enrollment, that communities do not have the capacity to
manage classroom construction school due to a lack of technical competence, and that
rural communities will have difficulty finding construction materials and skilled masons on
the local market.
28.          In cases where education already receives a significant share of the
Government budget, there is a high probability of disconnect between sector expansion
objectives and public expenditure under adjustment. Under adjustment, it is difficult to
maintain or improve quality or management while access to education expands if short-
term measures are not taken to ensure the financing of operating costs until other revenue
generating mechanisms, such as cost-recovery in secondary and higher education and
improved tax collection, are put into place.
29.          Third, we often underestimate the difficulty of vocational and technical
training institutions to respond to changing labor market needs. Targeting a share of the
payroll tax for use by employers to finance employee training at technical schools, and a
panel study are unlikely to significantly improve the responsiveness of training institutions
for at least three reasons: (i) when the vocational training base is small, a significant
amount of lead time is required for institutions to adjust programs and acquire or organize
the skills and equipment needed; (ii) training needs to be supported by regular and reliable
labor market, business and economic data as well as the expertise to analyze/interpret the
data for training uses; and (iii) particular attention should be devoted to developing
appropriate strategies that would give greater leverage to employers in decisions
concerning program offerings.
30.          Fourth, recruitment standards for architectural/engineering firms should not
be lowered in cases where the local capacity of such firms is limited. Short-lists should
still ensure that all listed firms have carried out similar tasks during the five past years.
31.          Fifth, attempts to strengthen the capacity of Ministries of Education in
planning, monitoring, research and management will be futile unless a significant effort is
made to fill such positions with individuals with relevant prior academic training and
experience.
32.          Finally, cofinancing provided by a weak cofinancier can negatively affect
project implementation, particularly within the context of a program approach. Greater
attention should be given to an assessment of the reliability and professionalism of
cofinanciers before cofinancing decisions are made. Or alternatively, support by unreliable
cofinanciers should be kept as separate as possible.



10
A Successful Classroom Construction Program
The Mauritanian Experience
The following conditions were essential to the success of the classroom construction
program.
1. Community responsibility. The program transferred the responsibility for construction
management to the communities, including the financial management. Communities were
responsible for procuring the materials, recruiting and paying the required labor, and supervising
the construction site with technical assistance provided by local engineers. The program also
required that the community pre-finance the construction in stages. Both the pre-financing
requirement and the involvement of the community in the management process has r-sulted in
greater ownership of the school by the community, as evidenced by significant community
contributions to classroom construction (equivalent to about 40% of total construction costs), and
significant increases in enrollment, particularly of girls. An additional benefit was that it created
employment locally and improved the construction capacity of local contractors and masons.
2. Community trust and project credibility. An essential condition for developing
community participation is obtaining the trust of the community. This is particularly important
given the pre-financing requirement of the program. Trust was built by the application of
transparent, objective, and widely explained financing eligibility criteria, a simple approval
process, and immediate payment of the Government's contribution to the community. The
simplicity, transparency, and high visibility of the procedures also reduced the risks of misuse of
funds.
3. Simplicity and affordability. Classroom construction costs were kept low (US$ 5,500
equivalent), and were therefore affordable to communities. The classroom design was compatible
with local construction practices and was, therefore, more manageable.
4. Use of national expertise. To provide technical assistance to communities, the program
used highly qualified national expertise recruited on a competitive basis, in place of the low-cost
volunteer technical assistance originally planned. This resulted in the efficient management in the
field of multiple technical, social and administrative issues that would have been difficult for
foreign technical assistance to address.



I1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
EDUCATION SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Cr. 1943-MAU)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial       Partial         Negligible     Not Applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                                                                          X
Sector Policies                      X
Financial Objectives                 X
Institutional Development                            X
Physical Objectives                  X
Poverty Reduction                                                                       X
Gender Issues                                                                           X
Other Social Objectives              X
Enviromnental Objectives                                                                X
Public Sector Management                             X
Private Sector Development                                            X
Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                X
Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient          Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                       X
Preparation Assistance               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                          X
Implementation                                       X
Covenant Compliance                                  X
Operation                                            X
E. Assessment of Outcome                                 X



12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title     1                   Purpose                        Year of      Status
I                                                Approval  |
Preceding Operations
Education I             Provide low-cost basic education to rural populations   FY 74  Closed
(Cr. 495-MAU)          and establish a vocational training center.
Education II            Expand and improve vocational and teacher training;  FY 82   Closed
(Cr. 1214-MAU)         and improve capacities in educational planning and
administration
Subsequent Operations
Vocational & Technical   Establish a coherent system of technical education  FY 93   Ongoing
Education Project      and vocational training, staffed largely by national
(Cr. 2521)             instructors, efficient and of good quality, and
responsive to labor market demands.
General Education Project Assist Government to implement its education sector  FY 95  Ongoing
(Cr. 2706)             development program for the period 1995-2000,
which aims to provide access to primary education
for all school-age children by 2000, expand access to
lower-secondary education, improve quality and
resource use at all levels of education and strengthen
planning and management
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned                   Date Actual
Identification                January 1987                   January 1987
Preparation                   April 1987                     1987-1988
Appraisal                     January 1988                   Jan-Feb. 1988
Negotiations                  May 1988                       May 1988
Board Presentation            July 1988                      July 19, 1988
Signing                       August 1988                   August 29, 1988
Effectiveness                 November 1988                  April 14, 1989
Mid-term Review               February 1991                  November 1992
Project completion            December 1994                  December 31, 1995
Closing                       December 1994                 December 31, 1995



13
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year
1989   1990   1991    1992    1993       1994     1995      1996
Appraisal estimate          1.3    2.8    4.6       7.8    14.1      18.2
Actual                      0.3    2.2    5.4       8.6    12.8      14.9      16.8    18.2
Actual as % of estimate     23%    79%    117%   110%    88%         82%         -
Date of final disbursement                                                             4/3/96
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
18- 
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
FY     FY      FY      FY      FY     FY      FY      FY
89     90      91      92      93     94      95      96
*   Appraisal esimab  -        Actual



14
Tables 5 and 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Key Implementation indicators in SAR/
President's Report                                   Estimated                    Actual
A. Increase Primary Education 's share of the budget
Average annual growth in Government recurrent
budget                                                 3.0%                        -1.9%
Average annual growth in education budget              6.0%                       -0.4%
Average annual growth:
Primary Education                                    9%                         2.6%
Secondary Education                                  3%                         -0.4%
Higher Education                                     3%                         -4.0%
Contain scholarship budget for secondary,         UM 580 million              UM 515 million
teacher, and higher education at its FY 87 level
Education share of Government budget                   26.0%                      24.2%
Share of education budget:
Primary                                              32%                        40%
Secondary                                            32%                        31%
Higher                                               26%                        20%
Other                                                   10%                         8%
Contain new entrants to secondary school              5,000                       5,000
Limit enrollment in the ISS                        600 maximum                      500
B. Reduce unit costs
Conduct census of MEN staff                   by June 30, 1989                     1995
Eliminate incorrect salary and indemnity payments
by December 31, 1989             not achieved
Reduce foreign teachers in secondary and higher
education                                                                      50% reduction
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Component                           Study                           Status
1.  Strengthen Planning and    Etude des couts et economies d 'ehelle dans  Completed July 1992
Management                I 'enseignement secondaire general
2.   Strengthen Planning and   Etude sur I 'informatisation de la gestion du   Completed in 1995
Management                personnel du MEN
3.  Increase access to primary   Etude sur les obstacles ai la scolarisation  Completed
education                 desfilles
4.  Improve resource use       Etude et experimentation de 1 'enseignement  Completed
multigrade et a double flux
5.  Improve relevance of       Etude sur le suivi des diplomes de       Study conducted but
technical education       1 'enseignement technique                final results not analyzed



15
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in SDRs)
Category              Original       Revised        Actual
Civil works                      3,100,000      3,000,000      2,468,701
Equipment, vehicles, furniture,  1,700,000      2,000,000      1,982,264
materials, and supplies
Pedagogical materials              720,000        400,000       416,903
Consultants                      3,400,000      3,250,000      3,502,301
Training                           870,000      1,200,000      1,170,894
Operating Costs                  2,250,000      3,200,000      3,130,683
Refunding P522-MAU                 360,000        130,000        129,757
Unallocated                        800,000         20,000             0
Special Account                                                 398,497
Total                                                         13,200,000



16
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ millions)    Equivalent    Actual/Latest
to:          Expenditure
million         Estimates
Local      Foreign    Total
Costs      Costs
Source
IDA                             4.8         13.2       18.2      SDR 13.2          SDR 13.2
ADB                             2.1         14.9       17.0      SDR 12.3        Not available
Governnment                     0.7          0.0        0.7      UM 50.8         Not available
Local Community                 1.4          0.2         1.6
TOTAL                 9.0         28.5       37.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A cost benefit analysis was not undertaken. A net present value or an economic rate of return is
not available.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA                  Description of Covenant               Covenant       Present  Original   Actual                Comments
Reference                                                      Type          status    date       date
Article mEl     The Borrower shall: maintain the project     Implementation      C
para. 3.03      coordination unit with functions, responsibilities
and professional and support staff numbers
satisfactory to the Association
Article m       The borrower shall by October 30 of each year:    Implementation  C
para. 3.04      (a) furnish to IDA the 3-year investment
program for the education sector,
(b) review with IDA progress achieved in
carrying out the project;
(c) promptly take actions required to implement
IDA's review recommendations; and
(c) submit in June and October an
implementation report
Article m       The Borrower shall:                        Utilization of Funds
para. 3.05      (a) open a Special treasury Account (FCES);                      C
(b) replenish the FCES every March 30 to cover                  NC                          Appropriate level of counterpart funds
the cost of developing and printing textbooks                                               was never established and never
during the year,                                                                            provided.
(c) ensure that proceeds of textbook sales are                   C
deposited in FCES and used to defray costs
linked to textbooks for primary and secondary.
Article m       The Borrower shall:                        Implementation
para. 3.06      (a) develop an action program for double-shift                   CD     12/89     1991
and multi-grade teaching;
(b) carry out the experiment for the above                      CD     10/90      1992
prograin
(c) review with IDA the results of the                          CD    09/91       1994
experiment
Article mII     The Borrower shall:
para. 3.07       (i) ensure that ISS students bear the costs of                  NC    06/89
boarding/food services;
(ii) establish a new VET college in Boghe and a  Implementation  C     06/89     01/96
commercial one in Nouakchott;
I (iii) secure I nancing of the Maritime college;  I_C                   9/89      1993



DCA                    Description of Covenant                  Covenant         Present  Original    Actual                   Comments
Reference                                                            Type           status      date       date
(iv) determine modalities for communities to
maintain schools and implement by 9/90;                               NC      9/89
(v) develop an action-program for promoting
private investment in the education sector                            CD      9/90       1994        Proposal was prepared with delay by the
Association of Private Schools not by
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  ~~~ ~~ ~ ~~the   M iniistry
Article m1        (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be    Accounts/ Audits     C
para 4.01         maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:                       Accounts/ Audits         C
(i) have the records and accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, audited for each fiscal
year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles acceptable to the Association:
(ii) furnish to the Association, not later than                                                                                                     co
six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which  Accounts/ Audits       C
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year
after the Association has received the audit for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records                                                    .



DCA                  Description of Covenant               Covenant       Present  Original   Actual                Comments
Reference                                                      Type          status    date       date
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to the
Statement of Expenditures
C  = Complied with; CP = Complied with partially; CD = Complied with after delay; NC   Not complied with



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Borrower complied with all operational and manual statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised                  Actual
Stage of Project
Cycle        Weeks  US$(000) Weeks US$(000)  Weeks                US$(000)
Through Appraisal                                            86.2       141.3
Negotiations                                                 90.2       149.4
Supervision                                                 98.4        198.7
Completion        _         _ _      X                        7.0        12.4
TOTAL            |                         -               281.8        501.8
Note: Based on average cost of US $3,000 per staff week.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month and   No. of   Days in   Specialized Staff  Implementation   Development
Project Cycle      Year      Persons    Field    Skills Represented   Status        Objectives                Types of Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board through
Effectiveness
Supervision        Jul. 89        2          8     Archit./Econ.             I                1          Project launch; delays in signing
ADB agreement
Dec. 89        2         8      Archit./Econ.            2                2
Nov.90         -         -      Proj.Dir. / PIU          2
Staff
Jun. 91        3        21      Econ./Educ./VET          2                2          Slow inplementation; declining
Spec.                                                quality of voc. tech. education
Nov. 91        1         5      Inplemn. Spec.           -                -          Further delays in bid document
preparation
Apr. 92        2        14      Econ./VET Spec.          2                2          Deterioration of vocational training
component
Nov. 92        4        18      Econ./Educ.Spec./        2                2
Projects Officer
Jul. 93        1        12      Econ.                    I                I          Delays in construction of
inspectorates
Apr. 94        3                Ed. Planner/VET/         S                S          Suspended in conjunction with
Txtbk Spec/                                          preparation of follow-up operation
Implem.
Oct. 95        2                Ed. Planner              S                S          Suspended in conjunction with
Textbook spec.                                       preparation of follow-up operation
Completion         Feb. 96         1         5     Textbook Spec.
Mar. 96        3         10     VET Spec./
Implem. Spec.



Appendix A
REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
MISSION DE SUPERVISION DES PROJETS EDUCATION III (Cr. 1943) ET
EDUCATION IV (Cr. 2521) ET DU LANCEMENT DU
PROJET EDUCATION V (Cr. 2706)
DU 4 AU 14 MARS 1996
1.     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a sejourne en Mauritanie du 4 au 14 mars 1996. Elle
etait composee de Mme/MM. Rosemary Bellew  (Responsable des projets education), Serge
Theunynck (Specialiste en execution des projets), Richard Caruthers (Specialiste en campagnes
d'information. -ducation et communication) et William  Cooper (Specialiste en Enseignement
Technique et Formation Professionnelle) qui a effectue la supervision du projet Education IV dont
l'aide memoire sera transmis separement.  Les objectifs de la mission etaient de: (i) mener la
demiere supervision du Projet Education III en vue de preparer le rapport d'achevement du projet,
(ii) assister au seminaire du lancement du Projet Education V, et (iii) assister le Secretariat d'Etat a la
Promotion Feminine a preparer un campagne d'inforrnation, education et communication (IEC) pour
la composante scolarisation des filles.
2.     La mission remercie MMlN1. les Ministres du Plan, de ['Education et des Finances ainsi que
Mime la Secretaire d'Etat a la Condition Feminine et tous leurs collaborateurs pour la bonne
collaboration qu'ils ont accordee a la mission.Cet aide-memoire fait le point sur les discussions qui
ont eu lieu et resume les recommandations de la mission qui seront confirmees au retour de la mission
au siege.
PROJET EDUCATION III
3.     En vue de la preparation du rapport d'achevement, la mission a fait [a demiere supervision du
Projet Education III cloture le 31 decembre 1995. Elle voudrait remercier la DPEF et le MEN pour
les excellents rapports prepares sur l'execution du projet et pour le rapport d'ach&vement  du
gouvernement qui sera annexe au rapport de la Banque, ainsi que  tous les responsables de
composantes qui ont assiste aux discussions, toujours ouvertes et franches. Ceci a beaucoup facilite la
supervision et aidera la mission a analyser les resultats par rapport aux donnees quantitatives aussi
bien que qualitatives. Les observations et conclusions preliminaires se trouvent ci-dessous. II reste a
les verifier et a les completer par une analyse des archives du projet a la Banque apres quoi une copie
du rapport sera transmise au gouvernement.
4.     L' valuation du projet a et axne non seulement sur les inputs et la realisation des activites
dans les delais prevus. mais egalement sur les quatre elements suivants: la pertinence des objectifs,
Iefficacite de la coordination entre les directions concernees, I'efficacite de lFassistance technique, et
la faisabilite de la perennisation des actions menees.                                 ,,
Programme d 'Ajustement Sectoriel
5.     Le Programme d ajustement sectoriel comprenait des engagements financiers pour:
(i) accroitre des ressources allouees a ['enseignement fondamental  a raison de  9%  par an au
minimum, (ii) limiter la croissance du budget alloue a 1'enseignement secondaire general et superieur
a 3 % par an, (iii) geler les allocations aux bourses, (iv) reduire les couits unitaires A tous les niveaux
d'enseignement, et (v) prendre des mesures pour faciliter ['expansion des ecoles privees.
6.     Les objectifs ont ete substantiellement atteints en ce qui concerne les allocations au
fondamental. les bourses. les manuels scolaires et les contributions des collectivites aux
infrastructures scolaires du fondamental. lIs ont ete partiellement atteints pour ce qui est des
allocations aux enseignements secondaire et superieur, et negligeable en matiere de promotion des
ecoles prives et de reduction des coats unitaires dans les enseignements secondaire et superieur.
/ X



Appendix A
Extension et Amelioration de l'Enseignement Fondamental
Construction de salles de classe
7.     ['objectif vise par le projet en terme d'investissement physique: construction de 250 salles
de classe -- permettant d'accueillir environ 12 500 nouveaux eleves -- ne representait qu'une fraction
minime des besoins en salles de classe requis pour atteindre le taux de scolarisation de 75 % a la fin
du projet. Cependant, le succes du programme a permis de mobiliser des contributions additionnelles,
notamment l'importante contrepartie A la SAS francaise, qui ont permis de realiser plus de 1 000
salles de classe. Les raisons du succes du programme de construction sont essentiellement: (i) le
choix du modele architectural qui constitue un bon compromis entre ce qui est techniquement
souhaitable et ce qui est financierement possible; (ii) la responsabilisation des collectivites locales;
(iii) le haut niveau de competence des equipes de supervision technique.
8.     Le programme de construction realise a permis d'accueillir dans les nouvelles classes. plus de
50 000 nouveaux eleves. En outre. ce programme a un un impact considerable dans les domaines
suivants : (i) renforcement de la credibilite de la politique de l'Etat en matiere de scolarisation
(ii) acceleration du changement de mentalite des populations vis A vis de lecole; (iii) solidarit6 des
collectivites avec [ Etat pour cofinancer cette politique dans une proportion jamais connue jusqu'ici
(40 % du cout total du programme) : (iii) mobilisation de contributions tres importantes d'autres
bailleurs de fonds au financement de 1 education: (iv) diffusion du modele architectural a d'autres
agences telle que IlAMIEXTIPE ; (v) adoption  du  meme systeme de responsabilisation  des
collectivites et de supervision technique des chantiers par d'autres ministeres tel que celui de la
Sante: (vi) le renforcement des capacites r6gionales et locales de construction par la formation sur le
tas de milliers de macons. La durabilite du svst&me mis en place est averee par le volume des
demande des collectivites qui continue A depasser la capacite d'intervention du projet..
9.     Pour la poursuite du programme. les recommandations suivantes ont et d6gag6es: (i) la
priorit6 au quantitatif devra progressivement integrer des aspects qualitatifs comme l'amelioration des
conditions de travail des eleves (tables-bancs, cl6oures); (ii) des efforts specifiques devront etre
d6ploves pour atteindre les collectivites jusqu'ici en dehors du programme; (iii) la diffusion des
requetes devra etre la plus large possible ; (iv) la sensibilisation des collectivites restantes devra faire
partie des programmes d'action des cellules mobiles: (v) les capacites r6gionales de programmation
devront etre developpees en liaison avec la mise en place de la carte scolaire au niveau regional.
A'fanue!s Scolaires (Financement FAD)
10.    Editions. Sur les 35 titres programmes, 17 ont ete imprimes et livres entre octobre 1992 et
janvier 1996 a un tirage de 296.000 exemplaires. Les autres 18 titres sont en cours de fabrication. Ils
totalisent 212.000 exemplaires; leur livraison et prevue avant fin juillet 1996. Les retards accuses
sont dus principalement a deux facteurs: (a) les va-et-vient d'epreuves entre l'lPN et certains
fournisseurs, et (b) la lenteur des paiements des avances de demarrage aux editeurs.
11.    Le Fonds de Concours a l'Edition Scolaire (FCES) a et ouvert au Tresor pour le versement
des fonds provenant de la vente des manuels et de la contrepartie du Gouvernement. Le FCES avait
comme objectif de mettre en place un systeme perinnisable pour le financement des reimpressions, la
distribution des manuels, et des depenses lies au fonctionnement du systeme. Cependant, le FCES n&a
pas beneficie des fonds de contrepartie prevus, necessaires pour lui permettre d'atteindre son objectif
de p6rennisation.



Appendix A
Enseignement Secondaire Scientiflque (Majorite Financement FAD)
12.    A l'exception de la formation des professeurs de sicences, cette composante a ete mise en
oeuvre comme prevu: (i) les programmes scientifiques ont ete revises, (ii) les 12 titres de manuels
ont ete cdites et seront tous disponibles avant la prochaine rentree, (iii) les 3 blocs laboratoires pilotes
viennent d'etre acheves et leurs equipements sont en cours de livraison, (iv) [es kits de materiel de
sicence sont livres et (partiellement) distribues ; (v) la rehabiliation des salles de classes a pu
concemer plus de classes que prevu.. 11 convient maintenant d'assurer la formation des professeurs de
science a l'utilisation.des kits et d'evaluer les nouveaux programmes ainsi que lFutilisation des kits et
celle des laboratoires. Ceci sera reealise dans le cadre du Projet Education V.
Enseignement Technique (Financement FAD)
13.    Les mesures prevues pour ameliorer la qualite de l'enseienement technique ont ete mises en
oeuvre: le niveau de recrucement a ete releve a la fin du premier cycle secondaire (BEPC) et la dur6e
des enseignements ramene de 3 a 2 ans; les curricula on ete revises et les horaires de travaux
pratiques-augemntes de 25 %. Comme convenu, le systeme a ete restrucrure par la creation du Lyc6e
commercial et celle du Collese de Boehe et par la reorganisation des filieres de Lycee Technique. Le
taux de participation des filles est passe de 0 A 25 % entre 1988 et 1995.
14.    Les mesures d'efficacite ont ete patiellement introduites et n'ont pas conduit aux resultats
escomptes. Le remplacement des professeurs etrangers n'a pas eu d'incidence financiere et s'est
traduite par une augmentation de la proportion d'enseienancs dans les matieres g6n6rales au detriment
des matieres techniques qui continuent a dependre de l'assistance exterieure. Les mesures pour
resoudre ce probleme sont acruellement miset en oeuvre dans le cadre du Projet Education IV. La
diminution prevue de la proprotion de personnel non enseignant ne s'est pas produite. Enfin, le
budget de cet ordre d'enseignement a progresse dans une proportion bien inferieure a celle prevue.
15.    La participation des employeurs au financement de cet enseignement est restee insignifiante.
Le Conseil National pour ['Enseignement Technique et la Formation Professionnelle a ete cree mais
s'est peu reuni et n'a pas eu de resultat. En particulier, la proposition d'orienter une fraction de la taxe
de formation professionnelle payee par les employeurs n a pas ete mise en oeuvre. II n'v a toujours
aucun mecanisme permertant de relier les programmes de formation. les effectifs a former dans le
systeme d enseignement technique et les besoins des employeurs.
Formation Professionelle
16.    CFPP (Financement IDA). Bien que i'ensemble des biens, services et formations prevus aient
ete delivres, les r6sultars ont et decevants. Du c6te positif, les deux nouveaux ateliers ont ete bien
construits et equipes correctement et le personnel, bien forme, est operationnel. En revanc'he, la
faiblesse de la Direction du Centre conjugu6e i la [' inadaptation des programmes et a la demotivation
des formateurs a conduit le Gouvermement a realiser un audit qui a conduit a l'adoption d'un plan de
redressement du Centre realise dans le cadre du Projet Education IV. Apres la restructuration du
personnel, le Centre a mis en place un debut de cooperation avec les employeurs mais continue a etre
finance en quasi totalite sur le budget de l'Etat, a proposer des programmes de formation initiale (pr&
emploi) et a recevoir peu de stagiaires par rapport a son pocentiel de formation.
17.    Formation  Maritime  (Investissements FAD, charges recurrentes  IDA). Les objectifs
principaux du projet ont ete atteints: curricula, formation, equipements y compris le navire-ecole et
services de specialistes. Le CFPMI qui n'assurait que des formations moyennes a ete transforme en
ENEMP pour assurer les formations d'officiers. Le plan de restructuration decide en cours de projet
Education III et mis en oeuvre dans le projet Education IV a permis (i) I'ajustement des personnels
en quantite et en qualit:, aux besoins de l'Ecole, (ii) I'ajustement du niveau des formations qui sont
3



Appendix A
actuellement agrees par I'OMI et (iii) ['introduction des armateurs dans le Conseil d'Administration
de l'Ecole ainsi que leur participation a son fnancement en remplacement de I'appui de l'IDA stoppe 
en 1994. Les resultats sont encourageants dans la mesure ou le pourcentage croissant de placements
en fin de fornation enregiste par la Cellule de Suivi (cri6e en 1992) montre que les produits de
I'ENEMP sont de mieux en mieux consideres par les armateurs.
Assistance technique
18.    L'Assistance technique (AT) fournie a et, dans 1'ensemble, d'une grande competence, a
r'exception de celle foumie au CFPP et a la DFP et, partiellement. a la DPC. L'impact de I'AT peut se
resumer comme suit: (i) le systeme de construction de salles de classe a &6 mis au point et
fonctionne bien; (ii) les responsables du systeme educatif sont tous mobilises pour la scolarisation
des filles: (iii) le systeme d'enseignement a double-flux et multigrade est accepte et se developpe;
(iv) la Cellule de recherche pedagogique existe et s'int6gre au projet eduation V; (v) les formations de
[ ENEMP ont demarre et leur niveau a pu etre reconnu par I'OMII au cours du projet Education IV.
Ces resultats ont ete atteints malgre-- a quelques exceptions pres -- d'importantes difficultes
d adaptation de ['assistance technique.
19.    Un changement important dans le projet a et ['abandon du recrutement des Volontaires (type
VNNU ou AFVP) initalement prevus pour le volet de construction de salles de classe, au profit du
recr-utement d equipes nationales competentes (composees d'un ingenieur et d'un adjoint technique)
provenant du secteur prive de la construction. Certe strat6gie -- qui a evite [es habituels probl[mes de
transfert de competences au depart de ['AT --'a et couronnee de succes.
PROJET EDUCATION V
Seminaire de lancement
20.    Selon l appreciation de la mission, le seminaire de lancement dont I'agenda est en Annexe
s'est tres bien derouie. Elle a pris note de la participation active de tous les partenaires relevant des
ivIinisteres de ['Education Nationale, du Plan et des Finances et du Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition
F6rminine. Les discussions ont servi a eclaircir la politique de 1'education devant une larze audience
et. en mertant ['accent sur le contexte macro-economique et budgetaire, ont servi a mieux expliquer
les options prises. La mission a constate que tandis qu'il v avait une bonne comprehension du
programme du fondamental et du superieur partage plus ou moins par tous, ceci etait moins evident
pour le programme du secondaire et pour les aspects organisationnels. Le seminaire ainsi que la facon
dont debute le projer suggerent qu'il est n'est pas inutilie de rappeler les points developpes ci dessous
aux paragraphes 21 et 22.
Eclaircissements sur des Questions Communes
2 1.   Couts de fonctionnement.  Les montant appeles dans le projet <( couts de fonctionnementO
sous le titre 4( couts recurrents  representent les coats recurrents additionnels lies aux activites
financees dans le cadre du projet. Ces montants ne sont pas destines a financer des coats de
fonctionnement quotidiens des directions du Ministere qui devraient etre finances sur le budget du
Ministere. Afin de repondre aux besoins en financement recurrent du Ministere, la mission
recommande qu'un budget fonctionnel du Ministere soik etabli par la DPC. Ceci devient de plus en
plus urgent etant donne le processus de deconcentration en cours. La mission souhaite, a cet effet,
que l[IDA soit informre des propositions elaborees par le MEN en vue de la pr6paration du budget
1997.
4



Appendix A
22.    Categorie non-alloue. Les fonds dans cette categorie ne sont pas des fonds additionnels pour
des activites supplementaires. Ils representent des couits additionnels aux couts de base des -activites
du projet lies aux taux d'inflation local et international et constituent une marge d'erreur sur les
estimations des prix.  lus ne peuvent etre realloues qu a des activites du projet dans le cas oa les
montants estimes pour l'execution de ces activites se sont averes insuffisants.
Programme de Construction de Salles de Classe
23.    Proorammations nouvelles. La mission a constate avec satisfaction que le programme CFD
IV entame en septembre 1995 (411 salles de classe sur le financement de contrepartie a la SAS
fran,aise financee par la CFD) avance correctement ; de mime que le programme IDA 95 (167 salles
de classes sur le credit 2706) qui a demarre: toutes les implantations ont ete faites. L'Atlas Scolaire a
ete revise pour inclure ces nouvelles conventions. Au total, le nombre de salles de classe en chantier
s-eleve, en fevrier 1996, a 850. La situation de l'execution des differents programmes se presente
comme suit
equivalent            en
?hases                      engagees       terminees      terminees       chanrier
Credit IDA 1943                   419           385             390             34
CFD I a III                       600           339             449            261
CFD IV                            411              4              6            407
Credit IDA 2706                   167              2              2            151
Total                           1 583            730            847            853
24.    Visite de terrain. Au cours de deplacements au Brakna, au Gorgol et dans le Trar-a, la
mission a visite plus d'une centaine de salles de classe achevees ou en chantier. La qualite des
constructions est irreguliere et, bien que celle-ci scit globalement acceptable, un certain nombre de
defauts. persiste. La mission a discute en detail les ameliorations proposees en ce qui concerne les
plans et le descriptif ainsi que la supervision technique. II a ete convenu: (i) que les propositions de
plans additionnels et de revision du descriptif seront transmis a l'IDA pour non objection avant le 30
avril 1996: (ii) qu'une fois revises. ces documents seront joints aux futures conventions et transmis a
toutes les collectivites ayant des conventions en cours d'execution; et (iii) que le Coordinateur
central effectuera une mission mensuelle d'inspection sur le terrain pour s'assurer que les cellules
mobiles fonctionnent selon les nouvelles modalites convenues et que l IDA recevra une copie de son
rapport trimestriel d' inspection.
25.    Cellules mobiles. La mission na pas d'objection a la permutation des Cellules Nord-Sud et
Centre et se felicite de la decision de rememtre en activite la base-vie d'Aleg. Elle recommande
qu'apr6s la livraison des nouveaux vehicules des CTR, les anciens vehicules soient affectes aux
Coordinateurs adjoints.
26.    Audit technique. Le contrat de l'auditeur technique a ete interrompu par celui-ci. II a ete
convenu que la DPEF procedera au recrutement d'un auditeur technique en remplacement. Les TDR
et la liste restreinte sera transmise a l'IDA avant le 15 avril 1996.
27.    Suivi des constructions realisees. Pour assurer ce suivi, le Cellules mobiles elaboreront et
tiendront a jour une de fiche de suivi sandardisee des constructions acheves et assureront la mise a
jour periodique de ces fiches, au moins une fois par an. Par ailleurs, le modele de construction ayant
evolue au cours du temps, toutes les constructions realisees ne disposent pas de toutes les qualites du
modele actuel. Une de ces ameliorations recentes -- I'agrafage des poutres metalliques sur la tete des
potelets-supports et celui des extremites des chevrons dans les pignons -- a une incidence sur la
durabilite de la toiture. Dans le cadre du suivi, les Cellules mobiles feront un etat de la situation des
toitures de toutes les constructions achevees, finaliseront le detail d'execution des reprises en sous-
oeu% re et prepareront un dossier de consultation pour le recrutement d'un tacheron par region qui sera
5 ,



Appendix A
charge de l'excution de l'ensemble des reprises. Le dossier de consultation et 1'estimation
privisionnelle des couats seront transmis a l'IDA pour approbation. Le cocut de cette operation sera
impute sur la categorie I du Credit.
28.    Financement CFD. La mission a ete informee que la subvention fran,aise d'ajustement
structurel (SAS 94) ne serait pas suivie d'une autre subvention. De ce fait, les programmes de
construction de salles de classe realises sur la contrepartie a certe SAS cessent avec le programme
CFD IV. La mission recommande que la DPC fasse le point des besoins de salles de classe non
couverts par un financement et transmerte les resultats au Ministere du Plan.
29.    Annuaire statisue. 11 a ete constate que, dans I'annuaire statistique, la classification des
salles de classe en <" dur >> et (( non dur) )ne reflete pas la realite. Pour avoir une estimation plus juste
des besoins, la reimpression du questionnaire d'enquete annuelle integrera une nouvelle version des
pages concernant le patrimoine bati, a preparer, comme convenu, par la DPEF.
Autres constructions
30.    Convention ;vtEN-AM4EXT1PE. La mission a ete informee par M. le Ministre du Plan du
souhait que I'AMEXTIPE joue le r6le d'une Agence d-Execution et qu'une lemtre a et transmise a
l'IDA A cet effet. Les autres points (disponibilite des terrains. passation des marches, calendriers) ont
ete examines avec I'AMIEXTIPE et ne posent pas de probleme particulier.
31.    CollQges. Avant la finalisation de I'avenant a la Convention AMEXTIPE, la mission souhaite
recevoir l'assurance que la selection des sites pour l'implantation des futurs colleges est conforne
aux criteres discutes lors de la preparation du projet et, en particulier, que la population scolaris6e
dans le fondamental dans zone d'influence de chacun des futurs collIges est suffisante pour justifier
leur creation.
Scolarisation des filles
32.    Campagne IEC. La mission a assiste l'quipe IEC du SEPF a concevoir une stratesie de
demarche pour la campagne, A identifier les besoins du SEPF en matiere de renforcement de ses
capacites, a preparer des termes de references des consultants, et a identifier des institutions ayant une
experience en la matiere qui pourrait aider le SEPF a developper et realiser le programme. 11 a ete
convenu avec l'equipe du SEPF que la strat6gie consisterait a piloter le programme dans les regions
de Brakna et d'Assaba avec l appui d'un(e) consultant(e) nationale et d&un(e) consultant(e)
intemational(e). La programmation et les termes de references des consultants, auxquels la mission
n a pas d'objection se trouvent en Annexe 2.                                             v
33.    Fonds d'Appui aux Filles. La mission a rcqu I'analyse des resultats de la premiere phase
experimentale et une proposition pour la programmation de la deuxieme phase de formation. Avant
de proarammer celle-ci, la mission souhaite que les resultats soient discurts avec les membres de
l'equipe de chercheurs qui ont mene le premiere exercice sur le terrain et que le proces-verbal de cette
reunion soit transmis a l[IDA.
Manuels Scolaires
34.    Programme des manuels. Lors d'une mission de M. Diop, Specialiste en manuels scolaires
qui a sejourne en Mauritanie du 11 au 16 fevrier 1996 pour superviser cette composante, un calendrier
de r6alisarion a ete prepare pour la duree du projet (Annexe 3). Pour perrnerrre a l IPN de faire
demarrer, a partir d'octobre 1996, la mise au point des 16 titres a reimprimer, il a ete convenu que la
6



Appendix A
DPEF procederairavant fin septembre 1996 a la recuperation des originaux, des fichiers et des films
de ces titres a reediter quand les fabrications en cours seront achevees.
35.    FCES. La mission a note une difference de plus de 4 millions d'ouguiya entre le solde du
compte du FCES et les ecritures du comptable due aux delais qui s'ecoulent entre les versements des
responsables regionaux de l'IPN et la centralisation des versements des percvpteurs dans les ecrirures
du Tresor. Pour perrnettre a l'IPN d'utiliser le FCES chaque fois que les activites d'edition et de
distribution l'exizent, le produit des ventes sera verse (a) dans le compte ouvert a la BCMI pour les
capitales regionales de Nema, Aioun, Kiffa; Alee. Kaedi, Rosso, AEar, Nouadhibou, Akjoujt et
Selibaby, dans les prefectures de Zouerate et Boghe et a Nouakchomt, et (b) dans les perceptions du
Tresor pour tous les autres postes. L'IDA souhaite etre informee des estimations etablies par l'IPN
en vue de la preparation du prochain budget du NIEN, en ce qui concerne la contrepartie necessaire
pour le renouvellent des stocks sur les cinq annees du projet.
36.    Liste de depenses dligibles . Compte tenu des besoins exprimes par l'IPN, la mission n'a pas
d'objection pour l'acquisition sur le FCES (a) d'un ordinateur et d'un logiciel pour assurer le suivi
comptable et la gestion des stocks. et (b) I'attribution d'une indemnite de 0,5 % du produit des ventes
au comptable adjoint charge de Ia gestion du FCES et au magasinier central. La liste revise des
depenses eligibles se trouve en Annexe 4.
Enseignement secondaire
37.    11 avait et convenu auparavant que la Coop6ration francaise prendrait en charge la formation
des formateurs et des professeurs, notamment en enseignement des langues secondes, mathematiques
et sciences dans le cadre du PARSEM I et du futur PARSEM II. La mission recommande que dans
le cadre du programmation annuel du Projet Education V, I'enseignement secondaire prepare son
programme annuel qui servirait comme base de discussion avec la Cooperation francaise er l'IDA
afin d'assurer une coordination des financements.
Gestion et Coordination du Projet
38.    Etant donne ['enveraure du projet, la mission n a pas d'objection A la proposition que la
DPEF recrute un assistant administratif pour suivre les dossiers. Elle souhaite recevoir les termes de
references pour avis de non-objection.
39.    L'execution d'un projet de cette envergure demandera une bonne coordination, une erroite
collaboration, et une methodologie de travail axee sur I'appui mutuel des uns et des autres pour
realiser les objectifs. Afin de faciliter 1'execution coordonnee et le suivi efficace du proqet, le
seminaire de lancement du projet a propose que chaque composante prepare un tableau de bord et un
plan d'action annuel avec une estimation des couts associes aux acrivites comme prevu dans le
rapport d evaluation. La mission souhaite etre tenue informee du contenu de ces tableaux de bord et
plans d'action ainsi que du dispositif qui sera developpe et mis en oeuvre par le MEN pour s'assurer
que ces programmes correspondent aux objectifs du projet, que les fonds de contrepartie et des
budgets de fonctionnement seront disponibles et pour resoudre tout probleme de coordination interne
dans l'execution du projet. Elle rappelle que le projet prevoit un appui a la DPC pour developper ses
capacites dans ce domaine.
Pour la mission
Rosemarv Bellew
Responsable des Projets
7



Appendix B
REPUBLIQUE ISLANI[QUE DE MAURITANIE
MINISTERE DU PLA-N
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DU SECTEUR EDUCATION
(Projet Education III - Credit. 19-43-MAU)
A. OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Les objectifs du projet etaient au nombre de six:
- Realiser un programme d'ajustement sectoriel;
- Elargir llacces a 1'enseignement primaire et ameliorer sa qualite
- Amnliorer la rentabilite inteme et exteme de 1'enseignement secondaire et superieur;
A.meliorer l'enseignement technique;
- Renforcer la formation professionnelle
-rAmliorer la capacite de planification et de gestion des ressources humaines.
Les objectifs du projet sont marques par un haut degre de complexite : la conception du projet
impliquait 4 Ministeres : Education. Peche. Travail et Plan, auxquels s'est naturellement
ajoute le Ministere de ['Equipement en charge des constructions. Toutefois, malgre cette
complexite, les objectifs ont ete clairs pour chacun des Minist&res qui les ont parfaitement
maitrises. Cette complexite etait cependant encore renforcee, au niveau de la gestion du projet,
par la diffdrerfce des procedures et de performance des deux bailleurs de fonds initiaux, aux-
quels s'est joint la CFD a partir de 1993, et la cooperation allemande, a partir de 1994, pour le
volet salles de classe. En outre, ce volet du projet a implique, tres fortement, les collectivites
locales (258 communes) et les associations de parents d'eleves et induit des relations intenses
avec les responsables administratifs et politiques dans toutes les regions du pays. Enfin, le
Nlinist&re de la sante a confie au Projet la gestion de son programme national de construction
de centres de sante ruraux.
Les objectifs de chaque Nlinistere etaient tres ambitieux. La mise en oeuvre des activitEs pour
atteindre ces objectifs a represente, dans chacun des Ministeres concemrs, une part essentielle
de leurs taches.
Les raisons evoquees ci-dessus entrent en ligne de compte pour expliquer que l'execution du
projet a demande 7 ans au lieu des 5 ans prevus.



Appendix B
B. DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
1.    Programme d'aiustement sectoriel. Le programme d'ajustement sectoriel avait pour
objectif de financer 1'expansion du fondamental en contr6lant la croissance des effectifs de
l'enseignement secondaire et superieur. Les objectifs quantifies figurent dans un tableau
d'indicateurs de performances qui a ete suivi pendant le projet.
2.     Elarair l'acces A Fenseignement primaire et ameliorer sa qualite. Selon le Rapport
d'evaluation. le projet devait : (i) construire et meubler 250 classes et en rehabiliter 50;
(ii) editer et diffuser 350 000 manuels (24 titres) et 60 000 guides de maitres et, pour cela
(iii) construire un hangar de stockage a l'IPN ; (iv) creer un atelier l'edition a I'IPN; (v) creer
et alimenter un Fonds d'Appui a l'Edition; (vi) recycler le personnel ; (vii) acquerir et distri-
buer des equipements pedagogique; (viii) elaborer et mettre en place un systeme
d'enseignement multigrade et a double-flux: (ix) construire une ENI a Aioun;
(x) construire/rehabiliter 13 DREFs et ; (xi) financer ]es coats de fonctionnement additionnels
sur une base degressive.
Considerant que le nombre de salles de classe est le principal facteur limitant ['expansion de
la scolarisation. le gouvernement a. des 1990. decide pour des raisons d'equite de reallouer
pour les constructions. les fonds initialement destines au mobilier.
Du fait de l'avancement tres rapide, apartir de 1992. du programme de construction de salles
de classe. les fonds du Credit IDA ont ete epuises apres la construction de 420 salles de classe
(au lieu des 250 prevues). Le Gouvemement decida, en 1993 de mettre a disposition du projet
les fonds de contrepartie a la subvention francaise d'ajustement structurel (SAS). Au cours du
projet Education III. ces fonds se sont eleves a 242 millions d'UM (soit environ 2,1 millions
de dollars EU au taux moyen de 115 UM/S sur la periode), permettant la construction de 600
salles de classe supplementaires. Au total, a la fin du projet Education III. un total de 1020
salles de classe a ete enaage -- soit 4 fois plus que prevu -- pour un montant total de pres de
500 millions d'UMlN et 730 classes fonctionnaient deja. Compte tenu des differents taux de
subvention (50 % et 75 % selon les cas). Ia participation financiere totale des collectivites
s'est elevee, en moyenne, a 38 % du total des coCits, soit environ 190 millions d'UNI equiva-
lent a 1.6 millions de dollars des EU. Par ailleurs, le projet a contribue de facon significative
au d6velope?nent des capacites-locales de construction qui pourront. a leur tour. contribuer au
developpement local dans les autres secteurs.
Lors du seminaire de lancement du Projet le Ministere de ['Education Nationale a decide de
substituer la Cellule de production des manuels scolaires par la creation d'une cellule de re-
cherches pedagogiques. Le projet a finance pour cette action, I'appui technique. [equipement
et la formation de 6 chercheurs.
Par ailleurs, 30 000 manuels du fondamental non prevus initialement ont ete reimprimes sur le
credit FAD.
3.     Ameiiorer la rentabilite inteme et exteme de l'enseignement secondaire et superieu.
Pour lenseignement secondaire, le projet devait: (i) editer et imprimer 120 000 manuels (12
titres) concevoir. construire et equiper 3 laboratoires de lvc6e  (iii) distribuer un materiel
scientifique pour 17 lvcees et 23 colleges ; (iv) rehabiliter 100 salles de classe du secondaire.
En ce qui conceme ['enseianement superieur. le projet devait appuver l'ISS et [ENS. 11



Appendix B
s'agissait de: (i) la transformation et 1[extension de l'ex Lycee de Rosso pour y transferer
l[ISS ; (ii) acquerir 3000 manuels et du materiel scientifique pour les 8 laboratoires de l'ISS
(iii) acquerir 2000 manuels et des materiels scientifiques pour ['ENS.
Pour I'enseignement secondaire. Ie nombre de kits de materiel scientifique a et ulterieure-
ment ajuste au nombre de Iycees et colleges en 1996. Par ailleurs, I'expertise des salles de
classe du secondaire a conduit a en rehabiliter 119 au lieu de 100 dans la limite de l'enveloppe
prevue.
4.    Amrliorer l enseignemenr technique. Le projet devait: (i) developper les curricula des
filieres techniques; (ii) amenager le Lycee Commercial ; (iii) construire et dquiper un CEP
agricole a Boghe ; (iv) renover et agrandir et equiper les locaux existants du LCET de Nouak-
chott et de Nouadhibou.
5.    Renforcer la formation professionnelle. Le projet devait renforcer le CFPP et le
CFP.MI. Pour le CFPP, il s'agissait de: (i) e1aborer les programmes de formation; (ii) former
les formateurs; (iii) construire deux ateliers de formation et (iv) equiper ['ensemble des ate-
liers. Pour le CFPM, le projet devait : (i) financer une assistance technique (Directeur des
Etudes, instructeurs); (ii) acquerir un navire-ecole et des equipements pedagogiques; (iii) et
financer le fonctionnement du centre sur une base degressive.
6.    Arriorer la capacit: de planification et de aestion des ressources humaines. Le projet
devait acquerir des equipements pour certaines Directions du MEN (DPC. DP), du MPEM
(DFM) et du Ministere du Plan (DRH, DPE).
C. FINANCEMENT
Les besoins de financement total du projet etaient estimes a 37,4 millions de dollars EU dont
18.2 millions devaient etre apportns par [FAID (appui a l'enseignement fondamental a
['exception des manuels, appui au CFPP, renforcement des capacites de gestion), 17 millions
par la BAD (enseignement secondaire, technique et superieur et l'ecole maritime), 0.7 mil-
lions par le Gouvemement (20 % de frais de fonctionnement) et 1,6 millions par les commu-
nautes loc-lesparticipation aux constructions scolaires). A partir de 1993, le gouvemement a
affecte au volet construction de salles de classes du projet, des fonds de contrepartie A la sub-
vention francaise d'ajustement structurel, pour un montant d'environ 2.1 millions de SEU.
D. RESULTATS OBTENUS PAR RAPPORT AUX OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
1.    Programme d aiustement sectoriel. Tous les objectifs du programme d'ajustement
sectoriel ont et atteints. Le financement de l'expansion de l'enseignement fondamental a ete
assure. conformement aux engagements du gouvernement: le taux moyen de croissance du
budget de fonctionnement du Fondamental a ete de 9,63 % entre 1988 et la fin du projet en
1995. De ce fait. ha part du Fondamental dans le budget du MEN est passe de 32 % en 1988 a
plus 40 % en 1995. Parallelement, la part de l'enseignement secondaire A legerement diminue,
passant de 32 % A 31 % tandis que celle du superieur diminuait fortement, de 26 % a 20 %, du
fait que son budget est reste stable -- en moyenne -- entre 1988 et 1995.
3



Appendix B
Cette reallocation des ressources en faveur du fondamental a permis le financement des nou-
veaux enseignants. en moyenne de 330 par an, pendant la duree du projet, ce qui a permis de
repondre. a la fois. aux besoins quantitatifs de 1'expansion de la couverture scolaire. et aux be-
soins qualitatifs de diminution du ratio eleves/enseignants. qui est passe de 60 en 1987-88 a
54 en 1994-95. Paralllelment. les depenses budgetaires pour les autres ordres d'enseignement
ont diminue
2.     Programme d'investissement. A l'exception des DREFs qui n'ont et que partielle-
ment realisees et dont le reliquat a ete reporte sur le projet Education V, tous les investisse-
ments prevus au credit IDA 1943 ont ete realises. S'agissant du Credit FAD, en fevrier 1996,
les investissements ont tous et realises a 1'exception de l'ISS en cours de chantier, de 16 ti-
tres de livres scolaires, et de complements d'equipements decides lors de la revue FAD a mi-
parcours. S'agissant du volet construction de salles de classe. l'objectif a ete largement depas-
se, puisqu7au lieu de 250 classes initialement prevues. il a ete realise, au 31/12/95, un total de
1 020 classes. dont 420 sur le credit AID.
3.     Gestion et de planification. Toutes les activites necessaires pour atteindre les objectifs
vises ont et6 mises en oeuvre. toutefois les MIinisteres concernes ont atteint leurs objectifs de
facon differente. Pour ceux qui ne les ont que partiellement atteint, la raison est principale-
ment le manque de ressources humaines pour absorber les apports de t'assistance technique.
E. EFFICACITE DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET ET PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS
AYANT AFFECTE CELLE-CI
I.    Programme d'aiustement sectoriel. La stabilisation du flux d'entree au second cvcle du
secondaire a ete rigoureusement assuree. creant une forte pression des sortants du premier cy-
cle qui a nourri le developpement de 1'enseignement secondaire prive qui est passe de 1,6 % a
5 % du total des effectifs entre 1987 et 1995. Dans le superieur. les mouvements sociaux
d'etudiants ont ete contenus sans que le programme d'ajustement ne connaisse
d' inflechissement.
II.    Pfigrrmme d'investissetnent.
A.    Construction de salles de classe. La reussite de cette composante du pro-
gramme resulte essentiellement de l'adhesion massive des communautes a la strate-
gie proposee. Cette adhesion est, a son tour, liee a l'efficacite du systeme qui repose
sur les facteurs suivants: (i) choix d'un modele de construction simple, economique
et realisable par les macons locaux ; (ii) transfert de la responsabilite des construc-
tions. v compris l engagement des ma,ons et/ou des tacherons aux collectivites loca-
les; (iii) mecanisme simple, transparent et rapide du paiement des subventions aux
collectivites ; (iv) haute performance des Coordinateurs Techniques Regionaux 1iee a
leur niveau de qualification.
B.    Manuels scolaires. Les financements pr&vus pour le renforcement des compe-
tences de l'IPN en matiere d'edition ont ete, ds le debut du projet. reorientes vers la
creation d'une cellule de recherche pedagogique. De ce fait, la maitrise de la compo-
4



Appendix B
sante manuels a ete faible: degre de preparation des manuscrits: selection des edi-
teurs-imprimeurs performances de ces derniers. Pour les manuels du secondaire, la
preparation des manuscrits a dui attendre la reforrne des programmes qui s'est faite
parallelement. En fevrier 1996. 19 titres etaient livres et les 16 aurres en cours de fa-
brication.
C.    Autres constructions. Le programme de construction a et realise selon un or-
dre de priorite etabli lors du seminaire de lancement du projet (aout 1989). La recep-
tion des batiments s'est etalee sur la totalite de la periode des Credits IDA et FAD.
Cente faible vitesse d'execution du programme s'explique essentiellement par la
conjugaison de 3 facteurs: (i) ta lenteur de production des etudes architecturales,
(ii) la lenteur des procedures de passation des marches, (iii) la faiblesse de certaines
entreprises. Le premier facteur est dfu a la selection d'un trop petit nombre de bureaux
d'etudes (2 groupements de bureaux locaux+etrangers) pour realiser un programme
tres vaste, et l'affaiblissement des bureaux locaux de ces groupements consecutif aux
evenements de 1989 et non compense par leurs partenaires etrangers. Le second fac-
teur est lie a la fois a la lenteur des procedures nationales de passation des marchds
publics en Mauritanie a laquelle s'est souvent ajoutee celle de la BAD.
D.    Equipements. Tous les equipements ont ete acquis par appel d'offres interna-
tionaux. Les resultats ont ete inegaux: on peut estimer que 30 ,'o des marches ont
rencontre des difficultes de diverses. telles que: (i) certaines listes d'equipements
pedagogiques preparees au debut du projet ont da etre ulterieurement modifiees en
raison de la revision parallele des programmes d'enseignement; (ii) les procedures
d'approbation des dossiers d'appel d'offres et des marches par la BAD ont parfois ete
longues. causant des difficultes serieuses aux foumisseurs; (iii) a cause de
l'importance du volume d'un des appels d'offres qui comportant un tres grand nom-
bre de lots. son evaluation a demande un temps nettement superieur a la normale;
(iv) les paiements de la BAD ont connu des retard ; (v) les fournisseurs nationaux ont
rencontre des difficultes a paver leurs fabricants a l'etranger; (vi) plusieurs fournis-
seurs n'ont pas tenu les delais contractuels; (vi) d'autres ont fait faillite. ce qui a nd-
cessite la relance d'un nouvel appel d'offres.
E.    Etudes et Assistance Technique. Toutes les erudes et L'assistance technique
prevue au projet. ont et livrees. Leur impact a et inegal. certaines directions n'ayant
pas eu les ressources humaines propres pour absorber l'apport de I'assistance techni-
que.
F. DURABILITE DES ACTIONS ENNGAGEES DANS LE PROJET
I1.    tylesures d'aiustement sectoriel. La perennite des mesures d'ajustement est assurde
dans la mesure oui les objectifs du Projet Education V prevu pour la periode 1995-2000, com-
portent des engagements budgetaires permettant de poursuivre la priorite de ]'allocation des
ressources vers l'enseignement fondamental pour permettre la scolarisation universelle a
l'horizon 2000. Ces objectifs a plus long terne ont ete etudies sur un modele de simulation in-
formatique developpe par la DPC et la DPEF en 1994.
5



Appendix B
2.    Saes de glasse. Le financement des subventions pour la poursuite du processus est as-
sure, a la fois par les fonds IDA du Projet Education V et par la continuation de l'affectation
par le Gouvernement des fonds de contrepartie a la subvention francaise d'ajustement structu-
rel (CFD). Par ailleurs, la dynamique du projet reste tres elevee puisque, au moment ou it se
terrninait. des requetes nouvelles pour demander la subvention d'environ 1000 classes 6taiefit
parvenues au projet, les collectivites s'engageant a financer 30 % du couit des constructions.
3.    Charmes recurrences liees aux investissements. Pour faire face a l'augmentation des
charges recurrentes generees par le projet (notamment vehicules des DREFs) les credits du
budget de fonctionnement de l'Education Nationale restent insuffisants. La releve de I'appui
du projet pour le fonctionnement du CFPMI/ENEMAP a ete assuree, a partir de 1994. par les
armateurs qui sont entres dans le conseil d'administration et assurent 40 % des cocits de fonc-
tionnement de l'ecole maritime.
G. PERFORMIANCE DES BAILLEURS DE FONDS
1.    U2A. L'identification et 1'evaluation par l'IDA du projet Education III s'est deroul6e
dans des delais raisonnables compte tenu de l'importance du projet et des enjeux. Au cours de
l'execution. les missions de supervision de 1'IDA ont 6te tres regulieres et efficaces. Les de-
mandes adressees par le Gouvemement a certe institution ont ete traitees dans des delais ac-
ceptables. En ce qui conceme le fonctionnement du compte special. le relevement par l'IDA,
en cours projet du plafond des r&glements directs de 20 000 dollars EU a 100 000 dollars EU a
entraine des difficultes importantes de reglement en monnaie etrangere des paiements infe-
rieurs a ce seuil.
2.    BAD. L'identification et l'evaluation du projet par la BAD ont ete faites sur la base
d'une requete du Gouvemement. Cependant, le Credit de la BAD n'a pas pu etre mis en vi-
gueur en mime temps que celui de l'IDA. Les missions de supervision du FAD sont trop es-
pacees (I annee) et les reactions de ce bailleur de fonds aux dossiers connaissent des delais
qui peuvent entrainer des difficultes. notamment avec les fournisseurs et les entrepreneurs.
H. PERFM'RMANCE DE L'ADMINISTRATION MIAURITANIENNE
Le Gouvemement a toujours ete tres attentif a la bonne mise en oeuvre du projet. La contribu-
tion du Gouvernement (terrains, contrepartie) a &6 fournie, meme lorsque les contraintes bud-
getaires se posaient avec acuite. Tous les responsables administratifs et politiques au niveau
central et regional ont apporte leur contribution avec celerite et efficacite. Tous les problemes
rencontres ont toujours trouve rapidement leur solution, ce qui explique que le projet a pu at-
teindre tous ses objectifs dans un delai acceptable ; ceci, malgre les contraintes naturelles
(territoire tres vaste peu pourvu d'infrastructures de liaison) ou celles liees a la limitation ac-
tuelle des ressources humaines disponibles. Toutefois. it faut signaler que cette bonne perfor-
mance s'est faite dans le cadre des procedures publiques marquees par les caracteristiques
suivantes
6



Appendix B
I.      Procedures administratives. Les procedures administratives sont lentes. Ceci est par-
ticulieremenc vrai pour la passation des marches. Certe lenteur s'ajoute aux difficultes resul-
tant souvent de la faible qualite de la preparation des documents de base.
2.      Procedures financieres et douanieres. Pour les constructions, I'obtention par les en-
trepreneurs de l'exoneration des materiaux importes connait des delais incompatibles avec le
deroulement des marches concernes. Pour I'acquisition d'equipements. les fournisseurs natio-
naux adjudicataires ont connu des difficultds a payer leurs fabricants etrangers. Les procedu-
res pour Fexoneration des equipements importes sont tres lourdes et tres longues. De nom-
breux efforts ont ete consacres par ['Administration pour amrliorer les procedures, cependant,
les resultats ne sont pas encore a la hauteur de ce qui est nrcessaire pour executer le projet
dans les delais requis.
G. EVALUATION DES RESULTATS
Le resultat le plus important du projet est la croissance du taux de scolarisation qui est passe
de 49 ,'o en 1987-88 a 80 %O en 1995-96. ce qui signifie. primo. que les comportements des
populations vis a vis de l'ecole. qui etaient timides au debut du projet, sont aujourd'hui en-
thousiastes et que. secundo. le svsteme educatif a su s<adapter pour initier. mobiliser et ac-
cueillir cette dynamique. tertio, que le gouvernement a donne les moyens de cette profonde
transfor-mation. en depit d'un contexte economique difficile.
Un autre resultat important est que ce projet, plus que tout autre, a permis d'engager la parti-
cipation financiere des communautes au cote de ['Etat, dans une proportion jamais connue
jusque la. De surcroit. le projet a contribue de facon importante au developpement des capaci-
tes locales de construction par [a formnation de la main d'oeuvre.
Dans le secteur professionnel. les resultats les plus marquants sont la creation de formations
tertiaires -- essentielles au developpement d'un etat modeme -- et le developpement des for-
mations maritimes completes qui ont abouti, a des r6sultats satisfaisants notamment dans le
domaine de la mauritanisation des 6quipages avec la mise en place d'une veritable liaison. so-
lide et durable. avec les armateurs.
I. OPERATIONS FUTURES.
Avant la fin du projet Education III, le Gouvemement. avec l'appui de ['IDA, a poursuivi les
actions engagees au travers de deux projets
- le Projet Education IV qui conceme ['enseignement technique et la formation profession-
nelle et dont l'objectif principal et de reorienter les formations en fonction des besoins du
marche du travail et
- le Projet Education V qui conceme specifiquement ['enseignement general et qui a pour ob-
jectif d'atteindre la scolarisation universelle dans le fondamental, I'elargissement de l'acces
au premier cycle du secondaire, la preparation d'un futur projet dans 1'enseignement supe-
rieur ainsi que des etudes sur le secteur de l'alphabetisation.
7



Appendix B
A la lumiere des resultats obtenus dans 1'execution du projet III on peut esperer que les projets
IV et V auront de meilleures performances compte tenu, A la fois, de l'experience acquise par
les differents acteurs dans l'execution et la gestion du projet Education III et, d'une maitrise
amnlioree du fait d'une separation de la poursuite en deux projets distincts.
K. LE%ONS MAJEURES APPRISES
1.    Le succes du programme de salles de classe resulte essentiellement de la simplicite, la
transparence et de la rapidite des procedures de mise en oeuvre. Pour la poursuite des actions,
un manuel des procedures a ete prepare et adopte et la remuneration des superviseurs techni-
ques est desormais liee A leur productivite.
2.    11 est pr6ferable que les projets soient plus cibils et comportent moins de composantes.
La separation de la poursuite du projet Education III en deux projets: IV (formation profes-
sionnelle) et V (enseignement general), repond A cette preoccupation.
3.    Les procedures de passation des marches ont ete tres longues. Pour pallier a cet incon-
venient, les Projets suivants (IV et V) ont fait appel aux services de l'AMEXTIPE pour une
partie des programmes d'infrastructures.
8



.rz"r -',    tz- _, 5=-t   ^.'-                             12'           AIi                         j                                                                            IBRD 28083
,,do,                                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~    ~      ~~ C E A N1 t <p 
~~~~ ICEIIA    )  6  l                       ~M  A  U  R I T A  N  I A
J      i              4    -                                M  A  U  R I T A  N  I E
CANARY  ISLANDS                                            '.~        t      ,   /.       >        IOC
tSpoin)                .                                >         L zul  -    MOE'            t     EDUCATION  SECTOR  RESTRUCTURING  PROJECT
_E ,O     ,r                J  ntE9CitYa '; AUD PROJET DE RESTRUCTURATION DU SECTEUR DE
2r                          ..a'   OUN                                                                   -'e^ 0         A.                             L'EDUCATION
MOROCCO _4                  R                         2R.
PRIORITY CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION REGIONS
ALGERIA                            REGIONS PRIORITAIRES POUR LA CONSTRUCTION
'N .\DES SALLES DE CLASSE
O O  120 Ir5  2   250 R                                                      I                                           ,      PROFESSIONAL LYCEE
rioE45  _  _  _  -  . J  \   \                      LYCEE / COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL (LCEP)
r.     COMMERCIAL LYCEE
I r *  f c  |    , ,   >      /  \,                           LYCEE COMMERCIAL (LCo)
FORMER                              I                                                      z      HIGHER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SPANISH           |   \       ,-                    ^                                             CENTRE SUPERIEUR D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIOUE (CSET)
24'        C         . e|                                                                           -,   - R                                TRAINING RESOURCE CENTER
TIRIS ;   ,3 -~~'   /                      420t              CENTRE DE RESSOLIRCES ET DE SUIVI (CRES)
ZEMMOUR            1             /                              VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND UPGRADING CENTER
CENTRE DE FORMATION ET PERFECTIONNEMENT
'DUSK                             -         /        j 1PROFESSIONNELLE (CFPR)
------------------            /       rE                                       PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIOUE (CET)
E  PROFESSIONAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE GDENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL (CEP)
/              ~~~~~MALI           4-      NATIONAL MARITIME TRAINING SCHOOL
ECOLE NATIONALE D'ENSEIGNEMENT MARITIME ET
DE PECHE (ENEMP)
DAK. ET  /S                              ca            
20'  NOUAD BO  INCHIP                    R    A    R                                          70, ~~~~~~~~~~~IREGIONAL VOCATIONAI TRAINING CENTERS
fl         NOUADHIBOU/ INCHr                                                                                                                C A  D  R A    R  CENTRE REGIONAL DE FORMATION POFESSIONNELLE (CFPR;
y  /  /  /   ECH  |              _      PAVED ROADS
ROUTES REVETURES
~~.JIKJA     CHARGUI  ~~~~~~~~~GRAVEL ROADS
r   9 /   gEgs__ ------- r,.hi,    yfi   jROUTES EN GRAVIER
NOLAKCT                                                                                                                ----_-- /____   TRACKS
PISTES
1                   ~~~~~~RAILROADS
/; r A, _ X ' OUGI6* |      CHEMIN DE FER
AIRFIELDS
(   f   /  \  S          XSAYOLIN EL AT US                   I                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~TERRAINSDAVIATIONI
rD>  __Sst  JX  A C A B A  x      /          , NEA          l                           REGION CAPITALS
16  9O.N JAAOS  M5              ,'          <                           !CAPITALES REGIONALES
0           ~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
H                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPI TALES
-__ GIIIEREGION BOUNDARIES
LIMITES REGIONALES
L^, SSEIIIABI                                                            _   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DAKARM               S E N E G A L                                                       M A L I                                         FRONTIERES NATIONALES
DAKAR          ~SENEGAL                      7MA LI                                                                                INDICATES THE TERRITORY OP THE FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
N                                                                                       (WESTERN SAHARA)
INGIGUE LF TERRITOIRE GE LANCIEN SAHARA ESPAGNOL
(SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
16.                                Er                                 ,rIrwE 1 S H









IMAGING
Report No:       15739
Type: ICR



