Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1943 MAU
             (Education Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 29, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1943 MAU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 29,  1988,  between  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF  MAURITANIA  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Association has received a  letter dated May 7, 1988
from the  Borrower  describing  a  program  of actions, objectives
and policies  designed  to  achieve  adjustment  of the Borrower's
education sector (the Program)  and  declaring the Borrower's com-
mitment to the execution of the Program;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the  African
Development  Fund  (ADF)  a  loan  (the  ADF  Loan)  in  an amount
of US$17,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  (the ADF Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADf; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "CEP"  means  College  d'Enseignement  Professionnel, an
institution  of  learning   for  lower-level  secondary  technical
education;
     (c)  "LEP"  means  Lycee   d'Enseignement  Professionnel,  an
institution  of  learning   for  upper-level  secondary  technical
education;
     (d)  "CFPM"  means   Centre   de   Formation  Professionnelle
Maritime, a  center  providing  post-employment  training  for the
fisheries sector;
     (e)  "CFPP" means Centre de  Formation et de Perfectionnement
Professionnel,  an  establishment  providing  vocational upgrading
training;
     (f)  "CSET" means Centre  Superieur d'Enseignement Technique,
an institution dispensing post-secondary technical education;
     (g)  "DREF"  means  Direction   Regionale  de  l'Enseignement
Fondamental,  a  directorate   of   MEN  responsible  for  primary
education;
     (h)  "ENS" means Ecole Normale  Superieure, an institution of
higher education for teachers' training;
     (i)  "ISS"  means   Institut   Superieur   des  Sciences,  an
institution of higher education for the teaching of science;
     (j)  "IPN" means Institut Pedagogique  National, an agency of
the Borrower responsible  for  developing, printing, procuring and
distributing textbooks and pedagogical materials and supplies;
     (k)  "MEN"  means  Ministere  de  l'Education  Nationale, the
Ministry of the Borrower responsible for education;
     (l)  "MEF" means Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, the
Ministry of the Borrower responsible for economy and finance;
     (m)  "MPEM"  means  Ministere  des  Peches  et  de l'Economie
Maritime, the Ministry of  the  Borrower responsible for fisheries
and maritime economy;
     (n)  "PCU" means  the  Project  Coordination Unit established
under Credit No. 1214 MAU (Second Education Project);
     (o)  "TPF" means the  Textbooks  Publishing Fund, referred to
Page  3
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
     (p)  "Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (q)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower;
     (r)  "ENI" means the Teachers Training College referred to in
Part A.6 of the Project;
     (s)  "DPC" means  Direction  de  la  Planification  et  de la
Cooperation, a directorate  of  MEN  responsible  for planning and
cooperation; and
     (t)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means the advance granted
by the Association  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to an exchange of
letters dated March 5, 1988 and  May 10, 1988 between the Borrower
and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  thirteen  million  two  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in convertible  ouguiyas  a special account in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
Page  4
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  June  15 and December 15
commencing December  15,  1998  and  ending  June  15,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
PCU with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial  and  education management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
Page  5
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  PCU during the
execution of  the  Project  with  functions,  responsibilities and
professional and support staff  in adequate numbers, all satisfac-
tory to the Association.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall  by  October 30 of each year
the Project is being implemented:  (a) furnish to the Association:
(i)  the  draft  three-year  rolling  investment  program  for the
education  sector,  and  (ii)   the  draft  budget  for  recurrent
expenditures for  said  sector  during  the  next following fiscal
year; said draft budgets shall be acceptable to the Association on
the basis of the Program;
     (b)  review with  the  Association  the  progress achieved in
carrying out the Project (including the execution of the Program);
to this end, the Borrower shall ensure that, no later than June 30
and December 31 of each  year,  the Project Director submit to the
Association for its  review  and  comment  a  report on the imple-
mentation of the Project, in  such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request; and
     (c)  promptly take all actions required on its part to imple-
ment the recommendations of  the  review  referred to in paragraph
(b) above.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  open and thereafter
maintain a Special Treasury  account  (the  FCES Account) on terms
and conditions satisfactory to  the Association; (b) replenish the
FCES Account on March  30  of  each  year  commencing in 1990 with
amounts sufficient to cover  the  cost  of developing and printing
school textbooks during that  year;  and  (c) ensure that: (i) the
proceeds of all  textbook  sales  shall  be  deposited in the FCES
Account; and (ii) all funds  deposited into the FCES Account shall
be used  only  to  defray  the  cost  of  developing  and printing
textbook titles selected for primary and secondary schools.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  by December 31, 1989
develop  an  action-program  satisfactory  to  the  Association to
implement on  a  pilot  basis,  double-shift  teaching schemes and
multi-grade teaching  in  selected  primary schools; (b) carry out
the experimental  double-shift  teaching  schemes  and multi-grade
teaching referred to  in  paragraph  (a)  above, during the school
year  commencing  in  October,  1990;  and  (c)  review  with  the
Association  the  results  of   said   experiment  no  later  than
September 30, 1991 and  implement  them  in a manner acceptable to
the Association.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by June 30, 1989:
         (i)   determine,  in  agreement   with  the  Association,
               appropriate measures  to  ensure that beneficiaries
               of boarding and  restaurant  services  at ISS shall
               bear the cost of  said services, and implement said
               measures   when    said    services   have   become
               operational;
        (ii)   restrict  the  purpose  of   ENS  to  provision  of
               teachers'  training;  training  in  subject matters
               pertaining to management of education resources and
               facilities, and upgrading training for staff in the
               education sector;
       (iii)   establish a new CEP  in  Boghe and a new commercial
               CEP/LEP  in  Nouakchott,  all  with  curricula  and
               admission conditions acceptable to the Association;
        (iv)   submit to the Association proposals satisfactory to
               the Association on means  to associate employers in
Page  6
               the design of  curricula  and to solicit employers'
               contributions to the  financing  of operating costs
               of technical schools; and
         (v)   review  with  the   Association  the  draft  CFPM's
               curriculum and means for  securing the financing of
               all CFPM's  recurrent  costs  by  the  Borrower and
               other private  sector  contributions  and implement
               them by September 30, 1989;
     (b)  by September  30,  1989,  determine  the  modalities for
transferring   school   maintenance   responsibilities   to  local
communities; develop in agreement  with  said communities a school
maintenance system satisfactory to  the Association, and implement
said system as from September 30, 1990; and
     (c)  by  September  30,   1990   develop  an  action-program,
satisfactory to the Association, for promoting private investments
in the education sector.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
Page  7
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the ADF  Loan made to the Borrower
                    for the financing  of  the  Project shall have
                    been  suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated in
                    whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    ADF Loan Agreement, or
               (B)  the ADF Loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on  terms and conditions consis-
               tent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  event  specified  in   paragraph  (b)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has employed  an  education planner in DPC,
and an architect and an accountant in PCU; and
     (b)  the ADF Loan Agreement  has  been executed and delivered
and all conditions precedent to  its effectiveness, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
Page  8
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
economy  and  finance  is  designated  as  representative  of  the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          B.O. 238
          Nouakchott
          Islamic Republic of Mauritania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MEF                             540 MTN
                Nouakchott
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                          By /s/ Abdallahi Ould Daddah
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  9
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 3,100,000       100%
     for Parts A (1),
     (2), (6) and (7)
     and for Part D
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment, furni-           1,700,000       100%
     ture and supplies
     for Parts A, D (1)
     and E of the
     Project
(3)  Pedagogical                   720,000       100%
     materials for
     Parts A and D (1)
     of the Project
(4)  Consultants'                3,400,000       100%
     services for
     Parts A, D (1)
     and E of the
     Project
(5)  Training for                  870,000       100%
     Parts A, D (1)
     and E of the
     Project
(6)  Operating costs             2,250,000        80%
     for Parts A,
     D (2) and E of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of                  360,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                suant to Sec-
     paration Advance                            tion 2.02 (c)
                                                 of this Agreemnt
(8)  Unallocated                   800,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                 13,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures incurred by the  Borrower under the Project for
items such as  salaries  for  contractual  staff, office supplies,
fuel, vehicle maintenance, travel  and subsistence expenses during
travel.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  10
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to assist the Borrower's
efforts  to  improve  the  performance  of  its  education  sector
through: (a) a better apportionment of resources allocated to said
sector; (b) improving the  quality  and  relevance of education at
all levels;  and  (c)  strengthening  the  planning and management
capabilities of institutions responsible for said sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Improvement of  the  Quality  of  Primary  Education and
          Expansion of Access thereto
1.   Development of  low-cost  school  construction modules giving
precedent to the use of local materials and community input:
     (a)  construction  of   about   250   classrooms   using  the
construction modules referred to in paragraph (1) above; and
     (b)  rehabilitation of about 50 existing classrooms.
2.   (a)  Development of textbooks for mathematics and reading (24
titles for primary education) in Arabic and French and printing of
a total of about 350,000 copies;
     (b)  development  and  printing  of  about  60,000  teachers'
guides  for  the   following   subjects:  grammar,  reading,  oral
expression, local environment  studies,  mathematics, and physical
education; and
     (c)  construction and  equipping  of  storage  facilities for
IPN.
3.   In-service training for  teachers, inspectors and pedagogical
advisors in areas  such  as  the  use  of  textbooks and teachers'
guides, multi-grade and double-shift teaching, school maintenance,
and management and timetabling.
4.   Acquisition and distribution of pedagogical materials, school
equipment, furniture, basic supplies and vehicles.
5.   Development and execution  of  a  pilot scheme of multi-grade
and double-shift teaching.
6.   Construction and equipping of a  ENI  in Aioun to replace the
ENI operating now in Rosso.
7.   Strengthening   DREFs   through   refurbishing   of  existing
buildings  for  DREFs   of   Atar,   Akjoujt  and  Nouadhibou  and
construction and  equipping  of  ten  buildings  for the remaining
DREFs.
Part B:   Improvement  of  Internal  and  External  Efficiency  of
          Secondary and Higher Education
1.   Strengthening the teaching  of  scientific subject-matters in
secondary education, inter alia,  through:  (a) revision of curri-
cula for said  subject-matters;  (b)  development of textbooks (12
titles in Arabic) and printing of  a total of about 120,000 copies
for  teaching  of  physics,  chemistry,  mathematics  and  natural
sciences;  (c)  equipping   three   selected   lycees  with  three
scientific blocks, and  acquisition  and  distribution  of a basic
scientific  equipment  kit   for   all  other  secondary  schools;
(d) refurbishing about 100  classrooms needing urgent repairs; and
(e) training science teachers  in  the use of scientific equipment
and textbooks provided under the Project.
Page  11
2.   Strengthening the teaching  of  science  in higher education,
inter alia, through: (a) transfer  of  ISS to Rosso; renovation of
existing buildings; construction of  about  1,700 m2 of additional
facilities; acquisition and installation of equipment and supplies
for eight laboratories; and  acquisition of about 3,000 scientific
textbooks;  and  (b)  acquisition  of  equipment  and  pedagogical
material for ENS.
Part C:   Improvement of Technical Education
     Strengthening technical education through:
     (a)  construction and equipping  of  a  school building for a
CEP in Boghe;
     (b)  refurbishing  and  equipping   of  the  existing  school
building for the commercial CEP/LEP in Nouakchott;
     (c)  refurbishing, extention and acquisition of new equipment
and  furniture  for  the   existing   CEP/LEP  in  Nouakchott  and
renovation of  the existing CEP in Nouadhibou; and
     (d)  acquisition of equipment for CSET.
Part D:   Improvement of Vocational Training
1.   Strengthening the capability  of  CFPP  to carry out improved
skills upgrading programs through, inter alia: (a) construction of
about 600 m2 of teaching space; (b) development of training curri-
cula; (c) training teaching  staff  in  the following fields: air-
conditioning/refrigeration;  electro-mechanics;  data  processing;
and  small/medium  business  management;  and  (d)  acquisition of
furniture, pedagogical equipment and materials, and one vehicle.
2.   Strengthening the capability of CFPM to provide adequate pre-
employment and  upgrading  training  for  artisanal and industrial
fishing.
Part E:   Improvement of Planning  and  Management Capabilities in
          the Education Sector
1.   Acquisition of  equipment,  furniture,  and experts' services
required to improve the capabilities of the following directorates
and units;
     (a)  in MEN:  the  directorate  of  educational  planning and
cooperation; the  directorate  of  personnel;  and  the  bureau of
organization and management;
     (b)  in MPEM: the directorate of training; and
     (c)  in MEF, the Project  Coordination  Unit  and the Unit of
human resources in the directorate of planning.
2.   Preparation of a follow-up education project.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
Page  12
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods, works and
services shall be grouped  in  bid  packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mauritania may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All civil works  and  furniture  which  cannot  be grouped in
packages of at  least  $150,000  equivalent  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, provided that: (a)  the  aggregate cost of such contracts
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall not exceed the
equivalent of $5,900,000; and (b) (i)  all bids shall be opened in
public  and  bidders'  representatives  shall  be  allowed  to  be
present; (ii)  criteria  for  evaluating  bids  shall  be  set out
clearly and  communicated  to  all  bidders;  (iii)  no preference
margin shall be  granted  to  domestic manufacturers or suppliers;
and  (iv)  foreign  companies   shall   not   be  required  to  be
incorporated in Mauritania in order to participate in the bidding.
2.   Works, goods and services estimated to cost less than $15,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of  price  quotations  invited  from  at  least  three
reputable suppliers in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to
the  Association,  provided  that   the  aggregate  cost  of  such
contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
Part E:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
Page  13
2.   The figure of 5%  is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
SDR 900,000 to be withdrawn  from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
Page  14
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this Schedule the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
