Document of
'rhe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22254-UG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25870)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 54.5 MILLION (US$75.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 28, 2001
AFT: TRANSPORT 1
AFRICA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000, official rate)
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shillings (UShs.)
UShs.1.00 = US$ 0.000599
US$ 1 = UShs. 1670
FISCAL YEAR
Govemment - July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          -Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ADB           -African Development Bank
CAS           -Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA        -Danish Agency for Development Assistance
DflD         -Department for international Development
EIRR          -Economic Internal Rate of Retum
FINNRA        -Finnish National Road Agency
GDP           -Gross Domestic Product
GOU           -Government of Uganda
GTZ           -Gesellschaft fuer technische Zusammenarbeit (German Aid Agency)
ICR           -Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -International Development Association
ILO           -International Labour Organization
MOFEDP        -Ministry of Finance, Economic Development and Planning
MOLG          -Ministry of Local Government
MOWHC         -Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
NDF           -Nordic Development Fund
PPF           -Project Preparation Fund
QAG           -Quality Assurance Group
RAFU         -Road Agency Formation Unit
RDP           -Road Development Program
RFRRMSP    -Rural Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy Paper
RMI           -Road Maintenance Initiative
RSDP          -Road Sector Development Program
RSISTAP       -Road Sector Institutional Support Technical Assistance Project
TSIREP        -Transport Sector Investment & Recurrent Expenditure Plan
TRP           -Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSM           -Transport Sector Memorandum
UShs.        -Uganda Shilling(s)
URC          -Uganda Railways Corporation
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:   James W.Adams, AFMTZ
Sector Manager/Director:    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yitzhak Kamhi, AFTTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                             16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  35
Annex 8. Full text of the Borrower's Contribution                                      36
NP: 1BRD 2548
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002923                                     Project Name: TRANSPORT REHABILITATION
PROJECT
Team Leader: Yitzhak A. Kamhi                           TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT             L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25870
Country/Department: UGANDA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/15/88                               Effective: 11/29/94          11/29/94
Appraisal:  07/07/93                                MTR: 03/09/97             03/09/97
Approval: 03/24/94                                Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA/MOWTC/MOLG
Other Partners: NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND
STAFF               Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                       E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:    James W. Adams                            Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard              Stephen Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:   Yitzhak Kanhi, AFTTR                    Hayley Gons
ICR Primary Author:   Yitzhak A. Kamnhi; Ephrem
Asebe; John D. Riverson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN'-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outconme: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. At the time of preparation of this project, Uganda was emerging from a period of severe
economic decline and instability. Government revenue was low even by Sub-Sahara African standards
(about 7% of GDP), and it was dependent on foreign funding not only for public investments, but also for



part of recurrent expenditure. At the same time, the Govemment was undertaking public expenditure
reform, rationalizing its development budget, and prioritizing its recurrent expenditure.
The Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2587-UG) was designed in support of Uganda's economic
recovery. By rehabilitating and maintaining roads and strengthening commercial management of rail
operations and services the project was to reduce transport costs and improve accessibility to productive
agricultural areas, and ensure that the infrastructure would be well maintained and efficiently managed at
a sustainable level. Private sector involvement was to be promoted. A pilot program for labor-based
feeder road construction was included, parallel-financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). NDF
financing covered technical assistance for the planning and supervision of feeder road works in the
project districts and the associated institutional capacity building and training activities at Ministry and
district level; while IDA provided funds for the building of overall feeder roads planning capacity and
monitoring, construction of civil works and the procurement of equipment for the lease-own
arrangements.
The Project objectives were to:
(a) protect the capital investment in, and increase the service life of, selected rehabilitated main
roads;
(b) improve maintenance planning and operation of the main road network;
(c) improve Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications' (MOWTC) capability for project
implementation;
(d) introduce labor-based methods of road maintenance and feeder road rehabilitation whenever
cost-effective;
(e) improve Ministry of Local Government's (MOLG) and the Local Authorities' (Districts)
capacity to plan, manage and monitor feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance;
(f improve feeder road network accessibility in four districts;
(g) train, advise and employ domestic small and medium sized contractors for feeder roads
works; and
(h) re-orient Uganda Railways Corporation's (URC) management towards commercial operation
and promote its financial autonomy.
Assessment of Development Objectives. The project objectives were conceptually clear and
supportive of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and government priorities. The project had been in
the making since 1985. It was appraised in July 1993 and became effective in November 1994. During
this long gestation period, serious attempts were made to clarify and test the realism of the development
objectives through harmonization with (a) IDA's Uganda CAS Objectives,(b) the findings of IDA's
Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM, February 1991) and (c) the Government's Rural Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy Paper (RFRRMSP, November 1992).
The CAS (dated 05/09/95) objectives focused on macroeconomic stability, improved private investment,
strengthened human resource development and poverty alleviation. The TSM covered the need for
medium-and long-term investments for a sustainable main road network. It stressed among other things:
(a) a balanced and sustained roads improvement program, with better planning and programming of
main road maintenance, (b) increased labor productivity with no diversion of funds from maintenance to
reconstruction/rehabilitation, (c) cost-effective feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance; and (d)
commercial orientation for the railways. The RFRRMSP, prepared with the extensive assistance of
GTZ, ILO and IDA staff, focused on improving district feeder road planning, introducing and gradually
increasing the application of a labor-based/light equipment supported approach for feeder road
rehabilitation.
The Govemment's medium-term transport sector strategy was also spelled out in The Way Forward 11,
Medium Term Sectoral Strategy (January 1992) and Letter of Transport Sector Policy ( March 1994).
The latter recommended the establishment and implementation of a Transport Sector Investment and
Recufrent Expenditure Plan (TSIREP) for FY1 995-FYI 997. The sector policy adopted by the
- 2 -



Government reaffirmed the earlier findings of IDA's TSM which were agreed with the Government and
served as the basis for the project preparation.
The design of the project provided a transparent framework for donor coordination and stakeholder
consultation and incorporated specific targets of outcomes and outputs. Staff assessment of the main
risks facing the project was realistic and recognized the severe budgetary constraints for road
maintenance and core road rehabilitation. The main implementation risks were identified as: (i) lack of
significant progress of URC in transforming itself into a commercial enterprise and losing its share of the
market; and (ii) lack of substantial and substainable improvement in management of public investment
including prioritization and execution of contract management and implementation and, especially, in
procurement planning and processing. These diagnoses reflected the reality facing project
implementation in Uganda at the time. Equally realistic were the corresponding mitigating measures
outlined in the project. The project design gave attention to environmental and social factors; in
particular, the spread of AIDS was to be mitigated through an AIDS awareness program.
However, the project experienced a time lag between design and implementation and the capacity of the
implementing agencies to absorb the project, particularly with regard to timely and orderly procurement
processing. As a result, engineering cost estimates of main road sections generally underestimated the
true improvement costs of the roads, which deteriorated overtime due to the lack of adequate
maintenance. Also, given the institutional weaknesses at the start of the project, the scope was relatively
complex and demanding for the borroweres implementing agencies. The capacity for implementing the
feeder roads component was enhanced by technical assistance. While the decision to transfer
responsibility for feeder roads from MOLG to MOWHC was a strategically positive move (consolidating
road network management under one roof in Government), the timing initially created some problems in
form of disruption and logistics in the implementation of the feeder roads component which was already
in an advanced stage of implementation under MOLG.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the project were maintained throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The above development objectives were to be achieved through the following four components:
(a) Main Roads (US$76.8 million equivalent)
(i) a share of the four year FY95-FY98 National Roads Maintenance Program: maintenance of
selected main roads, including routine maintenance of 1,746 km and periodic maintenance of
720 km;
(ii) strengthening and improvement of 32.5 km of the Kampala-Entebbe road;
(iii) upgrading, regravelling/rehabilitation of about 162 km of gravel roads including
Mbarara-lbanda Road;
(iv) Institutional strengthening of MOWTC.
(b) Feeder Roads (US$16.5 million)
(i) rehabilitation of 680 km of feeder roads and maintenance of up to 880 km per annum of
feeder roads in Mbale, Kapchorwa, Tororo and Palissa districts;
(ii) establishment of feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance capacity using labor based
contractor executed works;
(iii) strengthening MOLG/ED's planning and monitoring capacity.
(c) Railways (US$3.2 million equivalent)
(i) institutional strengthening of URC through technical assistance and training;
(ii) procurement of ferry maintenance spare parts and oil spill containment equipment; and
- 3 -



(d) Transport Sector Planning (US$1.0 million)
(i) Technical assistance for National Transport Database; and
(ii) container terminal.
In addition, a Project Preparations Fund (PPF) of US$1.50 million was allocated out of the total project
appraisal cost of US$99.00 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
The contracts for strengthening and improvement of Kampala-Entebbe Road and the upgrading of
Mbarara-lbanda Road experienced cost increases and contractors' claims. Project disbursement also
lagged due to delays in procurement. To rectify the shortcomings related to cost increases and delayed
procurement, IDA and the Government agreed to drop all the road upgrading, regravelling Irehabilitation
in the sub-component except for the Mbarara-lbanda (66.5 km) section. Also, to speed up disbursement,
the threshold for IDA review of routine mechanized maintenance contracts was raised. The
Development Credit Agreement was appropriately amended; the development objectives, however,
remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project did not benefit from formal review at entry by the Bank Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
However, in September 1998 the QAG reviewed the project progress and rated it as satisfactory. The
ICR also assesses the quality at entry as satisfactory due to several factors, including: (i) alignment of
the IDA's CAS and Transport Sector Strategy with the Government priorities which focused on poverty
alleviation and growth; (ii) identifying critical risks to development objectives and design of appropriate
strategy, (iii) innovative approaches to road maintenance financing and private-sector led labor-based
feeder road rehabilitation in the context of Uganda's macroeconomic situation; and (iv) addressing the
institutional constraints.
Alignment of the CAS and sector strategies of IDA with Govemment priorities was brought about in the
course of considerable discussion among stakeholder-donors (KfW/GTZ, BMZ, Nordic, EC) and the
government agencies. The extended discussion was based on several studies: the Transport Manpower
and Training Survey (1987); the Railway Master Plan Study (1987); the Transport Modal Efficiency Study
; the NDF Transport Strategy Development and Training Project (1987); and other subsequent studies
and policies cited in Section 3.1 above. The stakeholders' discussions helped identify and assess factors
that could put the project at risk, such as: (i) establishing effective financing mechanism by government
to ensure adequate budget allocations for road maintenance; (ii) enhancing the effective labor-based
approach for feeder roads, and (iii) establishing a sustainable institutional framework including private
sector participation in labor based feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance.
The extended debate on road maintenance also led to a country tailored approach to road maintenance
financing. The approach took particular note of the macroeconomic constraints facing Uganda, which
was undergoing structural adjustment at the time. At first, on the donors side, there were strong views in
favor of a dedicated road fund similar to the one being sponsored under the Road Maintenance Initiative
(RMI). However, under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Development and Planning
and with adequate controls, the implementation of the Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent
Expenditure Plan (TSIREP), provided a transparent and comprehensive framework in which all the
stakeholders could periodically agree on a sustainable size and composition of the sector's investment
and recurrent expenditure. A sustained TSIREP approach to road maintenance financing would
overtime serve as a good comparator to the road financing approach established under the RMI in many
other countries including Tanzania. The search for an approach to equipment leasing/renting for
labor-based civil works led to a review of experience of other African countries. Here, too, the outcome
of the exercise contributed to the involvement of private-sector-led labor-based contractors, who would
eventually own their equipment through the rent-to-own arrangement implemented under the feeder road
- 4 -



component.
Of pfimary concern to both the Association and the Government was the design and implementation of a
viable institutional framework for the transport sector. Both IDA and GOU saw that attracting and
recruiting qualified national staff would be essential for successful implementation and subsequent
operational sustainability. Other institutional arrangements adopted included: (a) the creation in the
Ministry of Local Government of a small committed and dynamic national team in charge of the program
to rehabilitate the rural feeder roads; (b) a semi-autonomous, or a more commercially oriented road
agency able to offer competitive terms and conditions of employment; and (c) a unified system of
incentives for government staff attached to donor-assisted projects.
Notwithstanding these important conceptual breakthroughs and innovations in the design of the project,
there were a few shortcomings. Given the weak government revenue base, the design of the project
assumed strong financial support from the donor community, particularly for maintenance of the main
roads, which did not fully materialize (see Table 2, Section 4.2). Also, at project effectiveness, capacity
of the implementing agencies was weak. This factor coupled with the significant time lag between the
technical design of the roads and their implementation contributed to further road deterioration.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
In terms of IDA's principal mission of poverty alleviation and the CAS objectives, the overall project
outcome/impact is substantial. In terms of the project development objectives and sector strategic
objectives, the project outcome/impact is also assessed as substantial and achievement of the project
development objectives and outputs as satisfactory. Improvement of the transport infrastructure and
transport service (see section 4.2) have benefited all and, in particular, rural women living in the roads'
zone of influence. The results of surveys done before (1994) and after completion (1997) of feeder
roads, showed an increase in disposable incomes of 20% due to increases in farm gate prices, partly
because women can now put more time in the field for crop production. The labor-based construction
industry initiated by the project generated over 1,717,800 person-days of employment between April
1996 and December 2000. There has been an increase in school enrollment, and in the number of
people using primary health care, and additional facilities have been constructed along the newly
rehabilitated roads.
In particular, the project made substantial contributions to the achievement of its objectives as follows:
Transport efficiency. Despite initial implementation delays due to procurement difficulties, the
rehabilitated and maintained main roads have shown up to 30% reduction in vehicle operating costs,
20% traffic increase and 30% reduction in travel time. The resulting efficiency in transport operation has,-
for example helped stabilize the taxi fares on the Kampala-Entebbe route at about UShs. 1000, thereby
providing significant benefits to the traveling public. The increase in disposable income, mentioned in
paragraph 4.1 also affirmed the contribution of improved transport access to agricultural production in
the areas where the roads have been improved. The main shortcoming with respect to this objective is
that not all the planned roads could be executed due to cost overruns and claims of contractors on the
two main road contracts.
Road maintenance planning and finance. An innovative approach with transparent stakeholder
participation has been tested and made functional with a positive impact. In this respect, the TSIREP
and the Three-Year Road Development Plan have proved effective as mechanisms for allocating
adequate resources for a sustainable road network. With support from the IDA Credit, the project
achieved 100% of its main road maintenance target and 115% of the feeder road maintenance target.
- 5 -



Private sector led construction industry. The demand created by the project has enhanced the
development of the private sector-based construction industry by contracting work through competitive
bidding. It has also created increased private sector participation, increasing sector activities and
adequate resource allocation for the construction sector. Both the improvement in the competitiveness
of the sector and the development of such an interest group would provide, in the long term, a sound
basis for further sustainable transport infrastructure.
Labor-based private sector construction. The private sector labor-based approach to feeder road
rehabilitation has proved viable and is now being used by ADB, DflD and DANIDA Projects covering the
33 out of 45 Districts. This approach combined efficient resource use with a poverty alleviation impact.
The consensus is that the project has made a significant contribution to the Initial development of a
labor-based private sector construction industry. The feeder road component has also substantially
contributed to the achievement of the project objectives of poverty alleviation, improving access, and
institutional capacity building in the selected five districts.
URC Commercial Operation. The re-orientation of URC's management towards commercial operation,
promotion of its financial autonomy and right sizing of staff has led to increased volumes of freight and
passenger traffic. As a result, URC at present operates without subsidies from the Govemment
MOWHC and Districts Institutional Capacities for Planning and Management. The capabilities of
MOWHC and the District Governments to plan and manage the road network have been improved; and
a significant number of technical staff have been trained in contract management. A road maintenance
management system has been developed. Prioritization of road maintenance planning, supervision and
monitoring has now become possible. The project implementation experience, however, highlighted the
need for an effective and professional system to plan and manage road operations. Since the capacity
building method failed to yield the expected results, commercialization of these services by outsourcing
them to a newly established Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU), the nucleus of a future road agency,
have been introduced.
The major features of RAFU are the procurement and management of contracts and outsourcing of
design and supervision services instead of these being carried out by the Ministries. With its highly
professional staff employed on a renewable performance based contracts, RAFU procures and manages
works contracts. In addition, the corresponding planning and financing activities have been placed under
the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development ( MOFPED), which serves as a
professional coordinating office tasked with reviewing, planning, prioritizing and financing the road
program. MOWHC, in the meantime, has been spinned off towards a regulatory and policy making
authority.
These reforms are being supported by the IDA-financed Road Sector Institutional Support Technical
Assistance Project (RSISTAP) and the Road Development Program (RDP) as well as by the other
donors, DANIDA, EU, etc. Under the project, a total of 20 feeder roads rehabilitation contractor firms
were trained of which 15 qualified and were awarded contracts under the project. In addition, 39 foremen-
and 29 assistant foremen were trained to assist the contractors in contract supervision. Also, with
respect to routine feeder roads maintenance, a total of 39 maintenance contractors have been trained
who could support the District Works Departments in future programs.
-6 -



Environmental and Social Impact. The project is a category B project. As the road works were mainly
rehabilitation, the environmental impact was small. An AIDS awareness program was executed with
positive impact along the feeder roads being constructed or maintained.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall project performance in meeting physical output targets is assessed as satisfactory.
Main Roads. (Cost US$76.8 million SAR; US$58.48 million actual). This component is rated as
satisfactory. The scaled down physical targets were substantially met. Overall, the quality of work was
fair/good. All of the targeted 1,746 km of main roads received routine maintenance, underscoring the
effectiveness of the consultative approach to road maintenance financing using the TSIREP. However,
mainly because of procurement delays, only 56% or 236 km of the scaled down target of 427 km for
periodic maintenance was achieved before the project closing date. Three of the seven periodic
maintenance contracts were dropped due to insurgency in the project area. For one of the contracts, it
took GOU almost two years to pre-qualify contractors and hence it could not be executed within the short
time left before project closing. The revised target for the Kampala-Entebbe road improvement (27.6
km) and the Mbarara-lbanda road upgrading (65.0 km) were fully achieved. However, because of
commencement delays, the prolonged time needed to resolve the issue, anticipated cost overruns and
contractor's claims on Kampala-Entebbe Road and Mbarara-lbanda road, the upgrading of
Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe (30.9 km), rehabilitation of Villa-Maria Road
(40.0 km) and Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road (25.0 km) were dropped at the request of the Government. In
view of the importance of the cost overruns and claims of contractors to the output performance of this
component, it is worthwhile to elaborate briefly describe the status of these contracts.
Table 1: Main Roads Component Performance
Component                        Cost in million of USD    Length in                l
Appraisal Actual/latest  %     Appraisal Actual  %
Estimates  estimates1    Change  Target           Change
Main Roads Component       (1)       (2)          (3)-(2)/  (4)      (5)     (6)
(1)%
Main Roads Maintenance   24.77        23.40    94%       2173    1982   91.2%
Periodic Maintenance*    (13.74)  (10.36)    75%      (427)   (236)    55%
Routine Mechanized Maint.    (9.62)    (9.61)   100%     (1746)  (1746)   100%
Routine Manual Maint.    (1.41)    (3.43)   243%
Main Roads Upgrading,   20.74       26.28   127%        162    66.5    41%
Regravelling and Rehabilitation,
including (Mbarara-lbanda)*                                      _
Strengthening/impmvement of  5.54         8.80   152%        32.0     27    84%
Kampala-Entebbe Rd                      I    _I
Physical contingencies  5.46            -
Price Contingencies   8.18            -
Total     68.20       58.48   85.4%/              .     _
Note: 'Estimates based on disbursement data up to June 27, 2001, and are not final.
*Revised to 427 km from 720 km from appraisal.
** Target was about 162 km and not all projects were committed at appraisal.
-7 -



Table 2: Maintenance Expenditure 1994/95 to 1999/00
(USD '000)
Year      Resource       GOU        Donor        Total      Annual
Contribution                                        Change
Index
1994=100
1994/95  Plan              12,478.6   10,785.7     23264.3        100
Actual            11,458.5    1,517.5     12,976.0        100
% Actual to          92%        14%         56%
Plan
1995/96  Plan              12044.7     9971.7      22016.4         95
Actual            11830.5      1,284.     13,115.1        101
% Actual to          98%        13%         60%
Plan
1996/97  Plan             20,579.9   16,6100       37179.9        160
Actual            17,063.3    3,511.7    20,575.0         159
% Actual to          83%         2%         55%
Plan
1997/98  Plan             23,770.3   19,325.2      43095.5        185
Actual            21786.3     1396.3      23182.6         179
% Actual to          92%         7%         54%
Plan
1998/99  Plan              26246.1    24937.3      49227.5        212
Actual            20886.2    3,821.0      24707.2         190
%actual to           98%        15%         50%
Plan
1999/00  Plan              31850.4   20532.7       52383.1        225
_ Actual              22680    15366.7       37974.7        293
% Actual to          71%        75%         72%
Pan          I
Note: the relative contribution of GOU and the Donor Community. Also, note the relative gmwth of expenditure for mantenance
over time. The data clearly shows the TSIREP approach used would have been even more successful if the donor community had been
fiuly committed as anticipated during the planning phase. The data also shows G(OJ's commitnent to road maintenance given its
limited revenue.
Kampala-Entebbe (Contract Price: Ush. 6,041 million; Revised Cost: Ushs. 7,355 million;
Completion cost including partial claims, as of June 27, 2001: Ushs. 6,986 million): The
Kampala-Entebbe Road (32km) commenced in February 1996 and was completed on September 30,
1997 after seven months delay. While the work was ongoing, a major road master plan development
was being undertaken which included the first 4.9 km of the Kampala-Entebbe road (Zana-Kibuye road
Section). This section was left out of the contract but later constructed under DANIDA/GOU funding at a
cost of UShs. 5,073,770 962.
Mbarara-lbanda (Contract Price: Ushs. 18,855 million; Revised cost: Ushs. 27,25 million;
completion cost including claims. and price adjustment Ushs. 33,716 million). The Mbarara-lbanda
Road (65.0 km) commenced on January 15, 1997 and was substantially completed on August 31, 1999
after 8 months delay. The defect liability period expired on August 31, 2000 and a completion certificate
was issued to the contractor on September 12, 2000. The final cost of measured work was Ushs. 29.432
million. Initially, the contractor claimed an additional amount of UShs. 15,5 billion for 'differing soil
conditions and their effect upon contractor's activities'. Eventually the final cost of the road was Ush.
33,716 million including price adjustment.
Contracts Dropped (Appraisal US$ 11.94 million). As the construction of the above mentioned two
roads was substantially completed less than a year prior to the Credit Closing Date with no settlement, of
- 8 -



claims solved, IDA could not take the risk of committing funds to new contracts. The
rehabilitation/regravelling of Villa Maria-Sembabule Road (40 km) contract was dropped from the project
to mitigate the anticipated cost overruns. Upgrading of Gayaza-Zirobwe Road to Bitumen Standard,
Regravelling/Rehabilitation of Zirobwe-Wobulenzi Road and Repair/resealing of Kampala-Gayaza Road
(76 km) were also dropped. However, the Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe-Wobulenzi road was added to the
Road Development Program funded by the Bank; and to keep the roads in motorable condition, they
received routine mechanized maintenance under this project.
Feeder Roads (Cost: US$16.5 million SAR; Actual/Estimated total US$13.77 million; IDA US$7.29
million; NDF US$5.00 million and GOU/DAs US$1.48 million). This component is rated as
satisfactory. A total of 1,014 km of roads (115%) compared to the targeted 880 km received
maintenance by 2000. The maintenance activities generated 973,400 workdays of employment with Ush
1,5 billion paid as wages. Also, a total of 514 km of feeder roads (83%) of the revised target of 622 km
in the districts has been rehabilitated. Over 734,400 worker-days of employment was created with total
wages of Ush. 866 million paid.
The feeder road program saw a shift from force account to private contractors. This has enhanced the
development of the local small to medium-sized private contractors. A total of 54 contracts were
awarded based on World Bank procurement document for small works. Experience in preparing bidding
documents and contract awards was gained by the Ministry and District staff. The experience gained
under the project is expected to contribute to cost effectiveness and productivity increases in the
contracting industry.
In particular, the feeder road program implementation has created a reservoir of goodwill among the
nascent local labor-based contractors that the project supported with equipment under lease-own
arrangements. The participants appreciated the training opportunity and the flows of civil works
contracts provided under feeder road program of TRP. Under the lease-own agreement, the
participating contractors had each paid some 62% of the equipment price at closing. The contractors
would be able to fully own their equipment by paying the outstanding balance. An estimated US$1.0
million worth of contracts are being financed from funds that will be made available by NDF from the
balance of the initial NDF resources allocated under TRP and from GOU contributions. In all about
US$0.5 million of the NDF resouce is used to finance local civil contracts and the balance, about US$4.5
million, is used for technical assistance.
Railways Cost: US$3.2 million SAR; US$2.17 million Actual): The output performance of this
component has been satisfactory overall. URC has made progress towards commercial operation and
financial autonomy. URC has streamlined its loss making lines and now covers its operations short of
depreciation costs, and productivity and workers' remuneration have increased. URC computerized its
wagon tracking system to improve its wagon system; bought marine spares for engine-overhaul of three
wagon ferries; and procured an oil containment facility to revitalize maritime transport which is under
URC. To improve efficiency in management and cost effectiveness of train loads, URC also trained 12
officers and upgraded its system - Operational Simplified Coasting Systems for Africa Railways. These
achievements were partly due to the several measures undertaken under the project to improve
customer service satisfaction. However, URC still has difficulties in making substantial progress in other
areas. For example, it has yet to submit its audit reports on time. IDA has not received audited reports
for 1996/97 and 1997/98. Also, the findings of Financial Restructuring Study and Kampala-Kesese Line
Study have yet to be implemented.
Planning and Capacity Building (Cost:US$0.8 million SAR; US$0.64 million Actual). Overall,
satisfactory performance was realized in institutional strengthening of the Districts; while for MOWWC
the performance was modest. Technical Assistance of 263 person-months in road maintenance,
planning, organization and operation was provided by Finnish National Road Agency (FINNRA) to
MOWTC under an institutional twinning arrangement. The arrangement made only modest
contributions. The impact could have been more if adequate number of Ministry staff had participated on
specialized topics. About 25 person-months under the twinning arrangement was later utilized to provide
expatriates' inputs under RAFU for contract management and procurement. A total of 22 district
-9-



engineers and headquarters technical staff were trained in contract management. Standard bidding
documents were prepared and workshops on contract management were organized for all district
engineers and staff at headquarters. A total of 15 engineers were sent abroad: 12 engineers attended a
seminar on international construction contracts in London; I principal engineer attended a seminar at the
Intemational Road Federation (Washington); 1 engineer attended a Works Procurement Course in Italy;
and 1 engineer attended a Transport Infrastructure Conference in Hong Kong. To improve local training,
the Kyambongo Public Works Training Center was equipped with the necessary training equipment and
visual aids. To improve contract supervision, 10 vehicles and 30 motor cycles were procured and used.
Transport Sector Planning, Guidelines for Preparation of Road Maintenance has been developed. Also a
maintenance plan with resource estimates for the year 2000-2003 has been prepared. Nationwide road
Inventores are now being updated annually. Some 13 Manuals for Maintenance Planning and Budgeting
have been developed. The 1992 Medium Term Transport Sector Strategy Paperwas revised in 1999 to
form the basis for new policy initiatives.
AIDS and Environmental Degradation Awareness Training: After identification of the local factors
responsible for the spread of AIDS, the project implementation team undertook training activities along
the program roads. Initially, the focus was on the contractors' employees. To assure sustainability, the
consultant also trained condom distributors, Local Council leaders and Change agents. After training in
proper usage and safe disposal, the consultants distributed 50,000 condoms to the targeted population.
An arrangement with District Medical Officers for free supply of condoms to organized trained groups
was put in effect. District Engineers and District Environmental Officers, in conjunction with Local
Environmental Committees, have also been providing environmental awareness training. Quarry
restoration was enforced through appropriate clauses in the civil works contracts.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project financed four components with high economic impact which would have positive contribution
to Uganda's road infrastructure network. However, not all of them lend themselves to quantification of
benefits. The benefits of such components as capacity building, through training and technical
assistance, while they are necessary factors and have distinct costs, cannot be easily quantified and
reflected in the ERR estimates. Where the benefits can be quantified, as in the case of road
maintenance, the economic benefit is obviously high so it was not considered necessary to estimate it.
For the same reason, the SAR did not estimate it.
Feeder/ruraVroads were executed in accordance with the 1992 Feeder Road Strategy Paper. The
selection of individual feeder roads was based on their agro-economic impact, using (a) investment costs
for rehabilitation net of savings in future maintenance costs, (b) number of farming households in the
zone of influence, (c) improvement in accessibility of roads, and (d) potential increase in net agriculture
income for households in the selected zone as compared to other agro-economic zones. Based on the
resul of the surveys taken in 1994 and 1997, farm gate prices resulted in an increase of 20% in
disposable income.
The economic viability of the investment, therefore, depends on the economic rates of return of the main
completed roads, Kampala-Entebbe Road and Mbarara-lbanda Road. These roads constituted 80% of
the actual total cost of the project. The EIRRs of the two roads were estimated separately using the
HDM4 model; the results of the post-construction EIRR estimates are 12.7% for Kampala-Entebbe
Road and 17.4% for Mbarara-lbanda Road Appraisal EIRR estimates were 12.7% and 18.2%,
respectively. See Annex 3 for details.
-1 0 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal and is considered not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional weaknesses were the major factors underlying the shortcomings identified in meeting the
physical targets. Nevertheless, the project has contributed a number of positive institutional
development impacts in the areas of enhancing staff capability and institutional reforms, as follows.
The staff of the Districts and MOWHC have gained capability in contract management and
administration, including valuable lessons from the mistakes made in the two main road contracts. The
capability in procurement and project supervision has been developed particularly in the case of rural
feeder roads.
Through the TSIREP experience, the staff have gained valuable experience in road maintenance
planning. The innovative approach to road maintenance financing and resource allocation which took
Uganda's macroeconomic/ government revenue condition into account, has had positive results. The
100% performance in the routine road maintenance program is an indicator of the institutional impact of
the project.
The expenditure in road maintenance, together with the competitive bidding administration of contracts
has given significant stimulus for the local contractors to strive for high standards in civil works.
However, if the progress in quality is to be sustainable, there is still need to address existing weaknesses
in contract management and administration. The labor-based private sector-led construction approach
tested under the project is now being widely used by the donor community in 33 districts. The private
sector contractors, including the labor-based contractors, now constitute an important pressure group for
ensuring adequate resource allocation for road maintenance.
The Project also, highlighted the weaknesses of the traditional capacity building measures and lead to
commercialization of the major activities related to: planning, procurement and management of large
contracts. With the establishment of RAFU, it has also been possible to demonstrate that effective use
of human and financial resources could be achieved through institutional reforms and skill transfers.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Currency volatility. In accordance with the objective of the CAS, stabilization of the macroeconomic
environment remained the overriding concern of the government. However, despite government's
significant progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic situation, on the Uganda Shilling depreciated from
US$1.0 to Ushs.1174 in June 1993 to US$1.0 to Ushs. 1670 on December 31, 2000. It has also been
volatile, exceeding US$1 to UShs. 2000 or more in between these dates, depending on the performance
of the economy and seasonal factors. To safeguard against risk of exchange loss, contractors have
quoted or been made to quote in US Dollars, or if in Uganda Shilling, pegged to the Dollar at an agreed
exchange rate. However, the relative value of the exchange rate of SDR to the Dollar has been rather
stable during the period. At the time of project appraisal (1993), the exchange rate was US$1= 0.7177
SDR; the average rate for the total SDR 35.897,453.9 disbursed was US$1=0.7275 SDR. The loss due
to the SDR depreciation against the Dollar was therefore about 1.4% on the total disbursement made.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
-1 1-



Donor coordination. The significant achievements in road maintenance, labor-based private sector
feeder road rehabilitation, and establishment of the RAFU were possible due to the support of the donor
community. The Government's adoption of the TSIREP has provided a transparent framework for
discussion of sector issues taking into account hard budget constraints.
Delays in claim settlement. Project implementation experienced significant cost increases and
contractors' claims of about US$ 20 million on the Kampala-Entebbe Road and Mbarara-lbanda Road
contracts (Section 4.2). The undisbursed balance of the credit was not utilized in order to cover these
outstanding claims; however, settlement of the cost increases and claims of the contractors took an
unusually long time.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement irregularities. The various aspects of the weaknesses in procurement have been
adequately described in Uganda Ex-post Procurement Audit, 1999 undertaken by IDA. A number of
irregularities identified in the report have been the subject of discussions between IDA and the Borrower.
The Borrower has taken note and will take appropriate actions to ensure that similar irregularities are not
repeated.
Delayed procurement. The implementation of this multi-disciplinary and complex project highlighted
major weaknesses of the implementing agencies in contract management, contract administration, and
especially in procurement planning and processing. In particular, feeder road contractors received road
rehabilitation equipment three years into project implementation due to delays in procurement.
Procurement of civil works suffered similar delays. This was a signifant factor in the failure for achieve
the physical target for feeder road on time.
Weak technical documentation. The cost overrun was partly attributed to poor engineering design of
some roads, extremely long periods between appraisal and actual execution and limited capacity for
supervision.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual and appraisal costs. Annex 2 summarizes the costs at appraisal and actual. The changes in
output as a result of the cost increases and claims on two contracts are shown in Section 4. Of particular
importance is the reduction of the rehabilitation/regravelling target due to the anticipated cost increases
of the Kampala-Entebbe and Mbarara-lbanda Road contracts. The cost increases and claims in the
main road component are summarized in Section 4.2. Since contractors have sought to mitigate the
risk of exchange rate loss by fixing the Ugandan Shilling to the exchange rate in US dollars, the relative
weakness of the Uganda Shilling may not have resulted in significant savings in Uganda Shillings. With
respect to expenditure on road maintenance, the GOU has been contributing significant amounts relative
to its commitment for each year starting FY 1994/95 while the contribution of the donor community has
been marginal.
Project financing. Out of the total appraisal cost of US$99 million equivalent, the relative shares of
financing at appraisal were IDA 75%, Nordic Development Fund 4.6%, borrower (GOU, URC and
Districts) 20.4%. At closing, the total actual estimated cost of the project was US$79.95 million, and the
respective shares were: IDA 71 %, GOU 23% and N D F 6%. Actual and relative shares of IDA's
contribution are lower than appraisal for reasons explained above. Overall, as of June 27, 2001,about
US$16.39 million equivalent of the IDA Credit was not utilized.
Nordic Development Fund. Under parallel financing, the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has
provided about US$5.0 million equivalent to finance consultancy services for construction supervision,
training of local labor based contractors and Districts staff and procurement of Equipment and materials
for field support for implementation. The NDF credit has been extended to allow the labor-based
- 12 -



contractors to undertake other contracts on the basis of lease-own arrangement sand to enable them to
complete their lease payments. These contracts were financed by IDA until the credit closing date, after
which the financing was taken up by NDF with IDA consent following GOU request.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project is likely to maintain the benefits generated in relation to its objectives over the economic life
of the project. Strategic attitudinal changes in policies, systems, institutional structures and capacity
development have taken place in the course of project implementation. These are likely to contribute to
sustainability of the benefits achieved under the project and to improve the capacity of the country.
Policy and financing systems. The government has shown its commitment to road maintenance through
increased road maintenance expenditure. The consolidated TSIREP provides a fundamental framework
to promote cheaper, more efficient and reliable transportation services, through enhancing transparent
discussion on resource allocation to priority activities in the transport sector. Also, a road maintenance
strategy is now in place. The Uganda Highway Maintenance Management System and Road Database
have been developed and are currently operational at the MOWHC Headquarters. This will help ensure
the timely and effective planning, budgeting and programming of road maintenance under the proposed
Road Agency.
Institutional structure. The road network policies are now managed under one Ministry. Major institutional
reforms and changes in institutional set-up have resulted in the establishment of a performance-based
Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) and the spinning-off of the Ministry towards a regulatory and policy
making institution. In addition to TRP, these reforms are being supported by yhe IDA-financed RSISTAP
and RDP. Further action is needed to support District rural feeder road program implementation and
management. In this context, the recently prepared Govemment vMite Paper (2001) with an updated
Feeder Roads Strategy provides the basis for further actions.
Capacity. A private local contracting industry has been established. A number of local contractors have
been trained and developed and adequately equipped to undertake road maintenance works. The
Ministrys technical staff had acquired skills and experience to procure and supervise contract works.
The training school at Kyambogo is equipped with essential training equipment. The institute in Mbale
was rehabilitated and is also fully operational as a labor-based technology and contractor training center.
URC is at present operating on a commercial basis without Government subsidies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With respect to the civil works, sustainability of the benefits of the project has been enhanced by the-
introduction of the TSIREP and the establishment of RAFU. The TSIREP reflects government priorities
in the transport sector and is updated semi-annually and reviewed by all stakeholders in the sector. The
Government has given high priority to road maintenance under the Ten-Year Road Sector Development
Program (RSDP) 1997-2006. Both feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance are being financed under
the PovertyAction Fund into which saving by HIPC Debt Relief Initiative are deposited. GOU and NDF
are committed to fund the ongoing subproject beyond the TRP closing date of December 31, 2000 to
allow the labor-based contractors to own their equipment. With respect to feeder roads, responsibility for
continued maintenance is vested in the respective Districts. The Central Government is also committed
to continued allocation of funds as conditional grants to Districts for road maintenance. The
establishment of RAFU is a major transitional arrangement to a possible future Road Agency, thereby
ensuring the sustainability of the achievements in institutional capacity.
- 13 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, IDA's performance in lending operations was satisfactory. As noted earlier, identification of the
project was consistent with the Govemment's priorities and IDA's transport sector assistance strategy for
the country. Through undertaking various sectoral studies, and holding discussions on these studies, IDA
helped enrich the quality of the Project at entry. During preparation, appropriate skill mixes were brought
to bear on the technical, financial, economic, commercial, institutional and procurement aspects of the
project. In hindsight, more forward planning could have been given to reinforce the capacity of the
implementing agencies in procurement and financial management. In other respects, identification and
assessment of risk was focused. A concerted effort was made to identify and assess risks facing
project implementation.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, project supervision is assessed as satisfactory. Following the 1997 mid-term review and
Uganda Country Portfolio Performance Reviews for IDA projects, the project was put on management
watch-list. Generally, the skill mix utilized was appropriate and focused on the principal objectives.
Project supervision and monitoring ratings were realistic, except in the first years following project
effectiveness where the project development objective was overrated. Special measures were taken to
cope with the major weaknesses of the implementing agencies in contract management, contract
administration, and especially in procurement planning and processing. Although implementation
problems were identified early, the response time of the implementing agencies often took longer than
optimum. As noted earlier, the delays in resolving the cost overruns and claims arising from two
contracts created uncertainty which hindered the proceeds of the credit from being fully utilized on
schedule. Quality advice was given to the implementing agencies. The experience led to further
training, major institutional reforms and a new institutional set-up which resulted in the establishment of a
nucleus of the future Road Agency and spin-off the Ministry towards a regulatory and policy making
institution.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall assessment of the IDA's performance was satisfactory. Given the institutional weakness of the
implementing agencies at the start of the project, significant progress in institutional arrangement and
capacity building has been achieved which would enhance the absorptive capacity of the country in the
sector in future projects.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of this project had a long gestation period extending from 1985 to 1994. This was a time
when govemment was experiencing a low revenue relative to its GDP. The project remained under
review until the Government, through public expenditure reform, allocated adequate counterpart funds to
infrastructure as a priority sector. The long gestation period, supported with a PPF, allowed the borrower
to articulate its Uganda Transport Sector Policy which served as a basis for this project. The additional
studies undertaken (See section 3.1) also contributed to the quality of the project at entry.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was overall satisfactory. In response to its resource
constraints, the Govemment has been creative in bringing the donor community into financing the
- 14 -



project. In particular, its adoption of TSIREP provided a transparent framework for resource allocation
for the Transport Sector which formed the basis of consultation with its development partners.
7.6 ImplementinggAgency:
The institutional capacity constraints, particularly in procurement administration, planning and project
supervision, remained a major source of frustration to the implementing agencies. Initially, the
performance of the implementing agencies was weak. However, some leaming had taken place and
significant improvement is now being observed with the establishment of RAFU, and increased capacity
in the Districts.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Overall, the performance of the Borrower is satisfactory. At the start of preparation the project faced
weak institutional and macroeconomic conditions and had initial problems in implementation. The
Borrower and its implementing agencies have created potentially better institutional arrangements which
should improve significantly the country's absorptive capacity in the sector.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation experience of TRP has several valuable lessons essential for continuing
development and increasing the absorptive capacity of the transport sector in Uganda.
Commercialization of Procurement Planning and Processing. The implementation experience of
this multi-disciplinary and complex project highlighted major weaknesses of the implementing agencies
in contract management, contract administration, and especially in procurement planning and
processing. To ameliorate the impact of delays in procurement TRP resorted to experimentation of the
commercialization of procurement. The experience of TRP shows that outsourcing design and
supervision to a unit staffed by professionals or consultants, and centralizing the planning and financing,
can ensure project readiness for implementation, and reduce the time lag between project design and
implementation. Also, the approach enhanced cost-effectiveness, which has potentially tremendous
budgetary and sustainability implications.
Local Construction Industry. A key achievement of TRP is the provision of incentives to the local
contracting industry. In particular, the improved flow of contracts and more timely payments and
guidance have created market conditions where some of the local contractors were able to progress from
class C to class A contractors. Under the own-lease agreement, labor-based contractors were trained
and provided contracts which would eventually help them to own their construction equipment. A
number of constraints remain, however, that need to be addressed if the local contracting industry is to
be sustainable. These include: (i) incompatibility of fixed rate contracts in a fluctuating macroeconomic
environment; (ii) review of requirements of bidding e.g. bank guarantee which are not favorable to small
firms which need to build their capacity; (iii) long time lag between tendering and awarding of contract
which may require changes in the nature of maintenance works, for example, from spot improvement to
surface dressing; and (iv) eliminating the risks due to uncertainty of payments for works performed.
Long-term Development Partnership. Long-term partnership of the donor community with the
Govemment is critical to the sustainable development of the transport sector in Uganda. GOU's decision
and donors' support to design a monitoring and operational management tool recognizes the need for a
long-term partnership. In this regard, the TSIREP along with the 10-year RSDP would serve as a
fundamental framework in promoting cheaper, more efficient and reliable transportation service and in
enhancing transparent discussion on resource allocation in the transport sector. The MOFPED has
established a commendable monitoring tool by consolidating the transport investment and recurrent
expenditure under various programs. On the other hand, while the GOU has been steadfast in meeting
most of its commitment for funding road maintenance, the donor community did not consistently
- 15-



demonstrate the same commitment. (see Table 2, Section 4.2).
Institutional Reforms. The implementation experience of TRP has highlighted the need and urgency of
institutional reforms if investments in the road sector are to provide the expected impact. Such
institutional reforms would have several key elements. At a national level, the focus would be on long
term planning policy and sector strategy with long-medium rolling Roads Sector Development Plan
supported by all participating donors. Such a plan would be similar to the ten year Road Sector
Development Plan. At ministerial level, MOWHC would be decentralized and would focus on policy and
regulatory activities. Implementation strategy would be based on separation of planning and financing
and priortization activities from actual implementation. The planning, financing and prioritization would
be based on the TSIREP. Implementation, including design, supervision and procurement would be
outsourced on Federation Intemationale des Ingenieurs-Conseils (FIDIC) contract conditions basis. The
consolidation of the institutional reforms would be a major task of follow-on projects, if the absorptive
capacity of the transport sector is to be significantly improved.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agencyv:
The borrower's contribution recognizes the institutional weakness that the project faced at the start of the
project and the progress made in the course of implementation of the project. It assessed that the project
has achieved most of its physical, developmental and capacity building objectives. It rated its own
performance and that of IDA as satisfactory and drew valuable lessons. The full text of the borrower
contribution as submitted is attached as Annex 8 of this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NDF has expressed satisfaction with what has been accomplished under the Feeder Roads Program and
would continue to finance the program to help the feeder road local contractors own their equipment
under lease-own arrangements. NDF reports being particulariy pleased with the progress achieved
under the project, given the initial constraints. The NDF is committed to working with the GOU, IDA and
the donor community to promote the labor based methods approach and the further development of
private sector capacity. The Fund also indicated a high level of satisfaction with the overall co-financing
relationship with IDA under the Project, which has strengthened the partnership between the institutions
within Uganda's road sector.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The local contractors have expressed their appreciation for the contribution made by the project in terms
of work flow to the local contracting industry and the significant improvement made in processing
payments for work completed.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Imeact Indicators:
~~~-..-.- P . . .    --1:::  ' ::: ....  ' ::::.                                                        .........'' '"i
Aid : .                                                           .....  ...........
Provide basic road Infrastructure to the  Sustainability based on balanced program    Resources are being allocated on the basis
economy, and ensure that the road     between: main roads, feeder roads and ral  of Transport Sector Inrestment and
infrastnrcture are well maintained and  infrastructure; strengthening, improvement  Recurrent Expenditure Program (TSIREP)
effectively managed on a sustainable level   and upgrading; manual maintenance;  and The-year Road Devebpment Program.
capacity building.
Transport cost reduction by 30% on some of
redueon In transport ost: inrase In traffic the rehebfiteted roads and 20% ftrfle
growth; reduction in travel time; reduction in growth and reduction in trave time by 30%;
perishable products;                  taxi fares stabilized at Ush. 1,000 after road
irnprovement in accessibility to priority areas improvement. Increase in the uisposable
- education and medical facuities, other  income observed based on 1994 baseline
service facilities; and,             study and 1997 monitoring data,
ADB, DANIDA and DflD sponsored projects
Increase in use of labor based methods.    also using labor based methods in over 33
districts.
Improvement in MOWHC's capability for    Improvement in planning and programminqg  22 Districts en,gineers and headquarters
road maintenance planning and operations   of road maintenance operations.  technical staff trained in contract
management; maintenance management
system developed and is now operational;
effective prioitization of maintenance
planning supervision, and monitoring now
possible.
Promote the private contracting industry  Develop the local constructon industry.  48 local contractors trained; and 20
contractors were fairy equipped.
Reorient URCs management towards      Enhance on commercial basis financial  Increase volume of freight and passenger
commercial operation and promotion of its   autonomy.                      traffic; URC now operating without subsidies
financial autonomy                                                          from government.
The SAR predate the log frame The outconne table shown above was retrofitted later.
Output Indicators:
~~~~~~~~~~.         .   ...   ...   ...                    . ......  ..........   ..   .....   .  .  
4rdlatlMtk-                   Proeced.. IatP
Main Roads:
Routine manual and mechanized         1746 km of roads to receive routine manual  1746 km of road maintained through
maintenance of main roads             and routne mechanized maintenance.    contractng.
Periodic maintenance of main roads    Periodic maintenance of 720 km of main    170 km regravelled and 66 km of road
roads; revised to 27.9 km.            resealed.
Strengthening & improvement of Kamvala-  Strengthening and resealing of 32.5 km;    27.6 km of the road strengthened and
Entebbe Road                          revised to 27.9 km.                   widened.
Upgrading, regarding/rehabilitation of gravel Upgrading of 66.5 km of Mbarara-lbanda    66.5 km upgraded from gravel bitumen
roads                                 road.                                 standards;
Upgrading of 30.9 km of Gayaza-      Dropped due to cost over-run;
Bugema-Zirobwe;
Rehabilitatin of Vil-Maria Road (40 km);    Dropped due to cost over-run; and
Rehabilitation of Zirobwe Wobwe road (25   Dropped due to cost over-nun.
km)
-1 7 -



Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation of feeder roads        Rehabiiitation of 360 km of roads; 170 km    514 km of roads rehabilitated;
spot improvement and 150 km;
Creation of employment; and,          approximately 734,400 worker-days of
employment a'eated; and,
Prepare bidding documents and contacts   54 contracts awarded based on the World
awarded.                              Bank document for small works.
Maintenance feeder road               Guidelines for the preparation of     Maintenance plan with resource estimates
maintenance; preparation of maintenance   for the year 2000-2003 prepared;
plans with resource estimates;
Decrease in works, using force account;    Force account restricted towards
grading;approximately 973,400 worker-days
km and % of network covered during the  employed and UShs. 1.5 billion paid as
period of implementation              wages;
1,014 km were maintained in all the five
districts.
Institutional strengthening of Districts of
MOWHC:
Institutional Strengthening of MOWHC  Provision of TA in road Maintenance,  288 person-month of specialist service: One
Planning Organization and Operations  Road Maintenance management Engineer,
one Road Maintenance Planing Engineer,
One contract management adviser and one
training specialist utilized.
Training of Ministry's technical staff  Workshop in contract management for all
districts and engineers and headquarters
staff;
Seminar in intemational construction for 12
engineers; seminar for 1 principal engineer at
international road federation; works
procurement course for one engineer in
Washington; and transport infrastnucture
conference in Hong Kong.
Improvement in canrying out contract  Procurement of supervision vehiles.   10 vehicles and 30 motor cycles procured for
supervision.                                                                supervisory use.
Equipping of the Kyambong public works    Procurement of training equipment and  An assortment of training equipment and
training.                             visual aids.                          visual aids procured for the center.
Railways
Increased customer satisfaction on UCR  Improve the wagon tracking system.  A computerized wagon tracking system
Improvement of marine service         Procurement of marine spares.         Marines spares for engine over-haul of the
three wagon fenies were procured
Revitalize marine transport under the  Increase the corporations capacity to handle An ol spill containment facility was procured
railways component                    goods.                                and stored at Port Bell.
Training of marine staff              Improved efficiency management and cost  12 marine officers trained and the OSCAR
effectiveness of the train loads.    (Operational Simplified Costing Systems for
African Railways) updated.
End of project
Reconstructed performance indicators
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
..... .. .  .. .... ..  .A. ,, ,,, ,,                        , ,.I...   . ...... ..,.. 
I. Main Roads*                                                   61.20              61.87                110
II. Rural Feeder Roads                                           13.20              13.77                104
Uganda Railway Corporation                                        2.60               2.17                 83
Transport Planning                                                0.80               0.64                 80
Project Preparation Funds                                         1.50               1.50                100
Total Baseline Cost                                              79.30              79.95
Physical Contingencies                                           7.80               0.00
Price Contingencies                                             12.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                    99.10              79.95
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                      99.10              79.95
Estimates based on disbursement data up to June 27, 2001, and are not final. The main road and feeder
road components actual amount include expenses made for institutional strengthening activities.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:  p   itu. C'te   ry                        l      r   e t; M et~...... ....... ....... ... . ...  ...  ..   ..
.                                                        -  :.  ,   . ..  ,   : :   . -   -.   : ......... ..... - -;,, ...... - --- . - - - .. ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . ... . ...... ... .. .
1. Works                            53.70            21.60            2.50             0.00           77.80
__________________        (45.50)          (13.60)          (1.00)           (0.00)         (60.10)
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .  .. ..  .....:: :
2. Goods                            3.20             0.00             1.40             0.00            4.60
(3.20)           (0.00)          (1.40)           (0.00)          (4.60)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00             0.50             0.00            0.50
Incremental costs; repairs         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.20)           (0.00)          (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00             2.60             0.00            2.60
construction Supervision           (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.50)           (0.00)          (2.50)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00             5.50             4.90           10.40
Institutional Strengthening        (0.00)           (0.00)           (5.10)           (0.00)          (5.10)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00             2.70             0.00            2.70
Transport                          (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.30)           (0.00)          (2.30)
Planning/Studies
Total                           56.90            21.60            15.20            4.90            98.60
(48.70)          (13.60)         (12.50)           (0.00)         (74.80)
The appraisal project costs by procurement arrangement did not reflect the total project cost. It was slightly
lower.
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.,       e ,*     y             ,      , ,                  ,., ,.    . .    ........ ,  .............. .
1. Woriks                       48.16          21.99          1.80           0.00         71.95
(40.29)       (18.19)        (0.90)         (0.00)       (59.38)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.00           0.78           0.00          0.78
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.78)          (0.00)        (0.78)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
Incremental costs; repairs      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           1.51           0.00          1.51
construction Supervision        (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.43)         (0.00)        (1.43)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00           5.02          5.02
Institutional Strengthening     (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (4.19)        (4.19)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.64           0.00          0.64
Transport                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.64)         (0.00)        (0.64)
Planning/Studies=.
|Total                   |     48.16          21.99          4.73           5.02         79.90
(029)        (18.19)        (3.75)        (4.19)        (66.42)
".Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by tile IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
v Tncludes civil works anld goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project mnanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incremnental operating costs related to
(i) mnanaging the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.Cbi-iiponezfl            Apiasa Estit -ug--P  g w a-e-  AE--qgEallL-EateitEutm.r    -   ---      - 
..0-.,,,,.,,.,-,,,,,.,,.,,,,.,i,,,,,...,,,.,.,,,,.,.,,,..,,,,,-,,,,.,.-,,.,---0 -0.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
. .. ......oP                           an      ~ w.        Cn.      Bal~    w    CF
MAIN ROADS               45.66     13.58      0.00      42.07     15.70      0.00    92.1   115.6   0.0
Routine Maintenance      0.68       0.73      0.00      1.49      2.33       0.00    219.1  319.2   0.0
Periodic Maintenance     7.78       6.04      0.00      3.90       6.46      0.00    50.1   107.0   0.0
Netwvork Improvement     29.91      1.58      0.00      30.25      1.59      0.00    101.1  100.6   0.0
Institutional Strengthcn.  2.75     0.13      0.00      2.75       0.13 -    ~0.00    100.0  100.0   0.0
FEEDER ROADS             8.79       4.39      4.89      7.30       1.50      4.50    83.0   34.2   92.0
Strengthen MOLG/ED       0.45       0.15      0.00      0.45      0.05       0.00    100.0  33.3   0.0
Rehabilitation           4.66       2.53      0.00      6.54       0.29      0.50    140.3  11.5   0.0
Maintenance              0.69       0.82      0.00      0.51       1.13      0.00    73.9   137.8   0.0
Training & TA            2.99       0.89      4.89      0.00      0.00       4.50     0.0    0.0   92.0
RAIllWAYS                2.45       0.13      0.00      2.17       0.00      0.00    88.6   0.0    0.0
TRLANSPORT PLAuN.        0.72       0.08      0.00      0.64       0.00      0.00    88.9   0.0    0.0
TOTAWL                   57.62     18.18      4.86      52.17     17.18      5.00    90.5   94.5  102.9
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Preface
1.    The post-construction economic evaluation of the civil works components, in principle, covers
the following:
(a) Road maintenance;
(b) Feeder road rehabilitation; and
(c) Main roads: (i) Strengthening and improvement of the Kampala-Entebbe Road (27 km); and, (ii)
Upgrading of Mbarar-lbanda Road (65.5 km);
Summary of Results.
2.    Road Maintenance. Experience has proven that the benefits from road maintenance in general
to be very high relative than the discount rate of 12%. On this ground, the SAR has also not found it
worth while to prove that economic viability by re-estimated. The ICR has followed this approach.
3.    Feeder Roads. The feeder road rehabilitation program was prioritized on the basis of
socioeconomic criteria. A base line survey done before and after construction of feeder roads showed an
increase in disposable income of 20% due to farm gate price increases, indicating positive economic
benefit.
4.    Main Roads. The post construction Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Value is
estimated for (a) Kampala-Entebbe and (b) Mbarara-lbanda Roads. Result of Post Construction EIRR &
NPV Estimates for Kampala-Entebbe Road and Mbarara-lBanda Roads.
The Net Present Value (NPV) of both Kampala-Entebbe Road and Mbarara-lbanda Road are positive.
Their respective EIRRs are also above the 12% discount rate. Given that their actual construction costs
has increased over the tender amounts by 39.5% and 55.8 % respectively, the EIRRs are assessed as
robust.
Summary of Economic Indicators
(US$'000)
Kampala-Entebbe Road   Mbarara-Ibanda Road
Increase in agency costs                            5,440                 10,850
Maintenance cost savings                              20                    -320
MT VOC Savings                                      5,710                 13,380
Savings in MT travel time costs                                              210
Saving in NMT travel & operating                                           2,130
costs
NPV                                                  290                   4,550
IRR                                                  12.7                    17.4
Part I: Economic Evaluation of (a) Kampala-Entebbe Road and (b) Mbarara-lBanda Road
- 21 -



A. Common Assumptions
5.    The following are common assumptions used in the Project.
* Traffic - base year data and new traffic counts for 2000;
Costs - The actual construction cost and actual and planned maintenance costs derived from 'Road
Network Management and Policy Study' of 1999.
Road Roughness measure- Base year condition and new roughness measures for 2000.
Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)- based on Road Network Management and Policy Study' of 1999.
Capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect 2000 prices and are included in
the cost stream;
Benefits stream consists of savings in vehicle operating costs was also updated to reflect 2000
prices;
Project life of 10 years has been assumed.
- 22 -



POST CONSTRUCTION ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN ESTIMATES FOR
M BARARA-IBANADA AND KAMPALA-ENTEBBE ROADS.
PARAMETERS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
KAMPALA - ENTEBBE ROAD
Commencement                                                                         1996
......I............................................................. .......... .......... ............................................................................................................................................
E Completion                                                                            1997
o   ,     _   ,        ............... -----------------------,, ----, , ,                                                ,   ,   ,      ,        ,-,       ,,,   ,,-,-,,,-,,. ,,,,.,,   _ ,,
I Completion Cost                                                                       US$8.43 million
Bae                 1''''  '''''''  ''''  ''''''''''                         --     -993-                                      -    
Analysis Period                                                                      15 yrs. (short analysis period chosen because the life of project is expected
to be limited to a few years after opening i.e. approximately 10 years)
Discount Rate                                                                         12%
.............................. ............................................................................................................................. ........................................  ..........................
Salvage value                                                                      I 10%
Base Option: Do Minimum                                                              Base Option Maintenance Policies (1993 - 2008)
>   Pothole patching & Crack sealing
, AlternativeOption                                                                . Altemative Option MintenanceRehabilitation Policies
>   Maintain rad before improvement (1993 - 1996)
Pothole patching & Crack sealing
>   Strengthening & Improvement (1996-1997)
Base repair
Edge repairs
Pothole patching
Crack sealing
SBST
DBST
>   Maintain road after improwement (1998 - 2008)
Pothole patching & Crack sealing
ILast rehabilitation                                                                    1989
.......... .................................................................. ....................... ................................................................................................................................
Traffic growth until 1996                                                            5.5% (as estimated by appraisal Consultant)
------ ... ---                    ------                      --------- -----                               ,...,,,   .......... -,1                  -  ,,  ,                                        ......................  .--..-..-.-----. .... .  
I Traffic growth after 1996                                                            3.5% (as forecast by appraisal Consultant)
...................................................................................... ............................................................................................................................................
Initial traffic in 1993                                                              4450 Vpd
....................              .........................................  .........   .......    ...............,........    ...,  ....,, ...,..............................................................
Traffc in 2000                                                                        Zana.- KaUansi, 55 Km                                    Kaj,ans                      be.2.  Km
-23 -



Traffic Composition
Vehicle                                        Traffic Composition in    Actual AADT for 2000                                                    Actual MDT for 2000
1993                                 (Zana-Kaijansi)                                  (Kajansi-Entebbe)
Cars                                                           34.3                                            2894                                              2340
Pickups                                                         20                                             983                                               586
4WD                                                               8                                           1456                                               1181
Mini-buses                                                     24.1                                           2508                                               1890
Buses                                                           0.3                                             24                                                25
Medium Trucks                                                  10.1                                            1276                                              855
Heavy Trucks                                                    0.7                                             26                                                 5
Motor-cycles                                                    2.5                                            449                                               324
Motor-cycles                                                                                               ..   ..  ..  ....   .          .     .~~~~~~---------  -------- - - - ----- --    ------
........................................................ ...................................................... .................................................................................  ..........................................................
MBARARA - IBANDA ROAD
........ ..... ............................................................. ...................................................................... ............................................................................
Commencement                                                                         1997
Completion                                                                          1999
Completion Cost                                                                          $ 24.87 million
IBase                                                                                  1992
.......................................... ...........-..... ................................... ............. .................................:.............. ....................................................... ...
Analysis Penod                                                                      22 yrs (because economic pavement life is approximately 15 yrs afer
opening)
Di ount Rate                                                       1-- -----X2%/0-  --- --------                              - -------
Salvage value                                                                       10%
................I......-.......... .... ............ ... .... ........... ..................................... .................. .................. ............................. ......................-......... ...............
Base Opton                                                                          Base option Gravel Road Maintenance Policies (1992 - 2014)
> Heavy grading (once every 2 years),
>   Medium grading (2 times a year)
- Light grading (4 times a year)
>   Spot re-gravelling (once a year)
>    erveig(eey5years).
Alternative Opton                                                                   Alternative option policies
- Maintenance of gravel road before upgrading (1992 - 1996)
* Medium grading
>   Upgrading of gravel road to bitumen standard (1997 - 1999)
- Maintenance of paved road (2000 - 2014)
*   Pothole patching and crack sealing
*   Reseal when damaged area > 20%
*   Overlay
...............        .            ........                                   .......................................................................... . ........... ..................24......
- 24 -



MAINTENANCE COSTS
~~~~~~~~~~~.   ...... ........ ................... ................. ........................ ...................... ..... ... ......................................... .........................
Acivity                                                    Economic Cost (US$)
Grading                                                    1650/Km
Spot re-gravelling
Re-gravelling                                            .13:5/m3
..... .... ........... . ..... ... ..... .. .... .. ...... ... .. ..
Patching                                                   4.415/rn2
Crack sealing                                                            .            .5.796/n2
.....................:......................... ................................................................................................................
Edge repair                                                3.2/M2
Reseai                                                     3.973/M2
....                                                                                   .
Overlay (AC)                                               33.1/m2
2 VOC INPUT COSTS (Economic costs in US $)
IVehicle type                            New Vehicle                            Replacement tyre                        Maintenance labour
Cars                                   4000                                    75                                      3
Pickups                                12000                                   75                                      3 (Crew wages of US$ 2)
4WD                                  i 25000                                   100                                     3
Minibuses                               15000                                  100                                     3 (Crew wages of US$ 4)
Buses                                  65000                                   325                                  . 3 (Crew wagesofUS$ 6)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .. .. ......    ..............                         ...........   ..................   ..    ............................................. E
Medium Trucks                          35000                                   325                                     3 (Crew wages of US$ 4)
Heavy Trucks                           75000                                   325                                     3(Crewwagesof U$6)
Motor-cycles                           2000                                    50                                      1.5
I Bicycles (NMT)             .         1001
-25 -



3.   VOC INPUT COSTS(Economiccostsin US$)
Vehicle type           INew Vehiicle            IReplacement tyre          Maintenance tabour
, Cars                    4000                      75                       3
Pickups                  12000                    75                       3 (Crew wages of USS 2)
, 4WD                    I 25000                    100                     ..3
Mini-buses             I 15000                    100                      3 (Crew wages of US$4)
Buses.65000                                       325          .          ..............          . ; 3 (Crewwages of US$ 6)
Medium Trucks          I 35000                    325                      3 (Crew wages of US$ 4)
Heavy Trucks             75000                    325                      3 (Crew wages of US$ 6)
Motor-cycles             2000                     50                       1.5
... .. ... . .. .. ..  ... .. . .. .  ...................................................... .. .. .. .. . ..... .. . . . .. . ... .. ... . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .
Bicycles (NMT)           100
-26 -



1.    Benefit Cost Ratios
Mbarara-lbanda Road and Kampala - Entebbe Road
.H  D  M   . 4: .Benefit Cost Ratdos
........................ ......................................................................... ....................... ...... ................                                                                             ......................                 ...................... .........................
........................ ........................................................................ ....................... .......................  ..............................................  .......................
.......................... ......................................................................... ....................... ...................... ...............................................                                                                                                           ..................
.......................I .......................... ..............................................   ....................... ....................... ......................I....................... .......................
* t 9 ag d ea - te ",, ,.n, ,,,,, ,,e ,~........................................................................ ....................... ...................                                                                                                                     .........I...
*HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT: BENEFIT COST RATIO ANALYSIS
,DotRS t,....   .....     ....  .................                                                                                                                                                                                      ..       ... ... .    ....    ....       .    .........         ..... . . ...........        .................
Run DO: 0SW-122
..           ...  .....       . .....                                                                                                                                                                                 .  .   ..  .  .                                                                    ...  ,.....       ..'.'.,.,., -    .
CurrencyH  Dolla.PWrq.Uo
'ta,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,........   ...  .                      ...   ...   ....                                                                                                                                                        ..    ,,,,,.sh ee ,,  ......     .....      .    ............t                        heC .,1 e. ...........   .......... ,.,,,
' w tt,,C,,X,,, ,.U ............ C t! , B 8 Z "? . ,,,,,, ... - ,,,,,,,, ... , .. , ,, ,,,d,,,,,M......,..........
:Memadve                                                                                                                 hicmsasein   Dereaose hini  E-ieo                                                                            NtPuei1NPIi]htmlRt
Agec CateU.rCo                                                               . Benefts                                 VaWe                                 Ribo                           of Rita.
(C)                                 (B)                                  (E)                     NPV=I+E-C]  (NPWC)                                                                (IRR)
Bm opon: Cirwl Road Mtce                                                                                                       0000                                0000 0w000                                                               0.000                                0.000                         OJ.OQ
Pbrinvs:    temsl Rd1o Bluion itd                                                                                                  10.97                             1934                                  0.00                                8.37    J                              .76                         2J O
...................... ...................................................... ........... ............. ................ ..  ......  .............  .......................  ...............................................
.............  .... ..... ..... .. .... .I..... .... .. :.....................  ............ .. .... ...... .... .............  .........................  . ..... . ......... ..... . .....................
114en1''''' ,.1i .................... ;-u
H D 14 - 4: -Benefit Cost Ratios
......                   ..................                              ...   ..... ..                                                        .. ... ...... ..... ... ... ... . ... .... .                      ...... ... ................ ............... ... ......... ...  ........... ...............
migUit        ngr ow                   1irosee                       at                 -zele(et1
HIGW,AY DEVELOPMENT & MANAGEMENT BENEFIT COST RATIO,,                                                                                                                                                                  ..AL.S
.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  ................................p.......................                                     ..  .  .  .... I    .  .....,,Cd,UsrecBb.................................    ..         ..   ..  ..   ..   .    .,, ...............,Pib, ,,,,d 
:   k               R          i I M    A                                                                                                             w8    ... .Wo                                                                          E      C                                                        ...... ...f
.Mernade asame In                                                                                                                             Dcease Oi                                                                                                                   PM" E.OOO  Net 0e80  I i 0.rr0 Ro
.Abrr*e: Slth   b l nueDDWat                                                                                     5t43                                  6.71                                    .00                                      029                                0.063                          127 1)
Fltie in bradw~ is rsater i [RR nAois in  rawg -so to-s
.................... .................I.......................... ................ ......                                                        ...... ... ,,. ,  , ,,Eerb,,,,,dIR .......................  ........   .................            ............ .  ........................ ..
, HD-4WKlmn 1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pap - o I
-27 -



2.    Economic Analysis Summaries
Kampala - Entebbe Road
H D M  - 4                                                                       Economic Analysis Summary
Study Name: Upgrading of Mbarara - ibanda to Bitumen Standard
HJHAYCEwEN i MAlAEMVr......................................     ....     ......     ..........  .   . .....                                ...........    ........................ . ............... . ...........    ...............
144WAY DEVE1~.1MENT &MANAGEMEN.T
a E                             Run Date: 115-0220111
JTis. report "qos.~q    ecqpqri~c benefts usn t.IlMg
T i reorshrIr l,ecer mc eneitsus9. he r !owa:....................    ..   ......  ......    .......... ,   ......... ..  ,.........    .........    .................  ............ ........    .............  -...................... ........--
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Currenry: US Dollar (millions@..                                                                                 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............    .............                                       ...................................   ..................................................................  ...    ............................................  
Discount rate: 12DD.                                                                                                                                                                         . .
Analysis Mode: AnaMlysisby-ProJect                                                                                                                                ''''' '''  '''
L ........... , . E .....................................................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............
'Altemative: With Project Upgrade Grawel Rdto Btumen Std VS Aternative: Without Project Gravel Road lAtce
E             .                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rontd Usera Benefits
Increase In Road Agency CostsIRodUeBeeis                                                                                            _________                                    Ne
________ .   .                                                            MTcle#e in  Road  Agency  CostsSa vin gs In   T Savings In   NUT  Reduction             Net           Economic
........................       p          R                      S           al                          Travel Time    TraVel  A  Operating   In Accident  Exogenous                                  Benefits
0                     Ca~~~~~~~~~~pit    Re curre nt    Sp ecia I                   o VOCCosts                                     CosIs                     Cost              HenefUst   (HP\I)
Undiscounted                  1674                -0.14                D.OD                  34.80                   0.00                           71.97                0.00               0.00             19.1B
b Discounted                      1066                 0.31                0.00                   6.85                   0.00                           12.49                0.O0               0.00                  .37
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRl} - 20.%  (Heo. of solutions -2)
HDM-4 Version 1.1                         .                                                                                                                                                            Page liof
..................................         ........................................................ .............. ............. ................... ................................................
-H D M  - 4  :    Economic Analysis Summary
Study Namne: Strengthening & Imprverment of Kampala-Entebbe (Sect )
..... ... .... ... .. :. ... .. .I........................ ... ... ....... ...... ..... .... ..... .    ... .  ......    .......  ......... ......... .  ..........    ........... . . ......... .. ......... .. ...    ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:HS-rwAY DEv9~?EPlOF     a MiANAENENT                                                                                     
Run Date: 05,-2,(01
:This report shows total economic benefits using the following:
i  .,  .  ....... .. : . . . ........                   ... .. .. . .   .   . ... .. .     .  .   .. .. .   ' .. ... ... . . ... .. .... -  .. ... .. ... ... ..... .. ... ... .. ... .. ... ... .. ... ..
Currency: US Dollar (mill.on .                                  .               -                             .. . .  . . ......
Discount rat'e: 1'2             - ..
Analysis Mode: Analysis-by-Project
............. ............. .... .. .. . i. .. . . .. . . ......... ......... .. ~~~~~~~ .. .........................................
Alternative: Alternative: Strengthening & Improvement VS Alternative: Base Option: Do Minimum mtce
:                                                                                       Road User Benefits
Increase in Road Agency Costs
._ .   IncreaseinReadAgencyCosts   Savins in IFT  Savings in NT   Savings in NMT   Reduction                                                                  Net            Economic
......................... ....... gs Travel Time   Travel  &  Operatng   In Accident  Exogenous                                                                                                      Benefits
......... ...... .     .......                             . ......                                          CapitRer r          et. .S.ea                      O Costs  Costs    C osX8neflts.        (NPV
Undiscounted                   7.69              -0.06               0.00                  21.73                  0.00                            Q.a                0.00 0 0               0             14.20
Discounted                  5.44              -002                000                    5.71                  0.00                            0.00               0.00               a.00               0.29
. Economic Internal Rate of Retum 5EIRR)- 12 7% (No. of solutions -
HDM4 Version 1.1                         .Pae-1 oft
-28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle.                NG. of Persons and Specialty.           Performiiance Raig
Month/Year    .       ...._.-..(e.g. 2 Economists,- 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation .Development-
-_  .-     _Month/Year   :Count        -Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/26/91                     7   Economist, Highway engineer
Identification                   (3), Railway Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Transport Econornist
10/31/91                    5   Operation officer, Highway
Preparation                      Engineer(3), Railway Engineer,
Transport Economist, Financial
Analyst
07/18/93                    1   Operation Officer
Preparation
09/11/92                    2   Highway Engineer, Transport
Preparation                      Economist
12/24/92                    1   Highway Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/18/93 Pre-                6   Operation Officer, lighway
appraisal                        Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Transport Economist,
Division Chief
10/02/93                    1   H-ighway Engineer
Pre-appraisal
Supervision
07/21/94                     4   Highway Engineer, Railway
Pre-luanch                       Engineer, Program Officer,
mission                          and Chief of Division
02/01/95                     5   Highway Engineer (3), Transport    S             HS
Supervision                      Economist, Railway Engineer
04/10/95                     3   Highway Engineer (2) Railway        S            HS
Supervision                      Engineer
07/22/95                     1   Highway Engineer                    S            HS
Supervision
11/12/95                     3   Highway Engineer (2), Railway      S             HS
Supervision                      Engineer
02/19/96                     3   Highway Engineer (2), Railway       S             S
Supervision                      Engineer
10/21/96                     4   Highway Engineer (3), Railway      S             S
Supervision                      Engineer
U             S
12/22/98                     3   Highway Engineer (2), Operation    S             S
Supervision                      Analyst
03/12/99                     4   Highway Engineers (2), Rural        S             S
Road Engineers (2)
-29 -



ICR
10/16/00                          2      Transport Economist,                      S                S
lHighway Engineer
(b) Staff:
[i-i9 kStage of EProject Cycle  -:i E lii : i; S-0  if P Actual/Latest Estimate il-70i-i  :0}i:i0
0  04-00 0 j;0; 4 t  ; 0- 0i 00 -;   : :;:: No. Staff weeks 0     :    ;;A US$SCOO) A   ;  :
Identification/Preparation                       190.9                             504.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                             66.9                             195.1
Supervision                                      191.9                             657.4
ICR                                               10.0                              20.0
Total                                            459.7                            1376.7
Data 1999 included.
-30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
ZSector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
[3 Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
M PovertyReduction                O H  * SU O M  ON  O NA
3 Gender                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
M Other (Please specfy)           O H  O SU O M  ON  * NA
AIDS
F Private sector development            0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
- 31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Safisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Iiighly Unsatisfactoy)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
El Lending                                         OHS * s O u OHU
El Supervision                                     OHS eS   OLU  OBHU
O Overall                                          0 HS OS OU  0 U
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS   s   O U  O HU
OL Government implementation performance           OHS OS   0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance               OHS * S  0 U  0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHS es  Ou  0 Hu
-32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IDA, Staff Appraisal Report, Transport Rehabilitation Project (No. 12579-UG), March 8, 1994.
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications, Transport Rehabilitation Project, Progress Report 24,
September 2000.
Road Agency Formation Unit, Guide to Planning Budgeting & Monitoring of Projects & Studies, Number
5, October, 2000.
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications, Road Management and Financing Study, Executive
Summary, Volume 1, August 2000.
Louis Berger International, Inc. Ten Year Road Sector Development program 1996/97-20005/06 Update,
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Works, Housing, Housing and Communications, 1999.
IDA, Uganda Ex-post Procurement Audit, July 5, 2000.
Ministry of Works, Housing & Communications & DANIDA, Baseline Survey on Use of Labour-based
Methods in District Road Works (draft), May 2000.
Uganda Railways Corporation, Annual Business Reportfor 1999 (draft),   not dated.
Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications, Road Sector Programme Support: Financial and
Engineering Audit of Main Road Maintenance, Preliminary Findings, August 2000.
Louis Berger International, Inc. Ministry of Works, Housing & Communications Road Agency Unit,
Procedural Guide to the Economic Aspects of conducting Roadfeasibility Studies in Uganda, October
1999.
WARDROP Engineering Inc. In Associations with Mutenga Batumbya Consulting Engineers Ltd.,
November 1998.
Gary Taylor & Moses Bekabye, An Opportunity for Employment Creation, Labour-based technology in
Road Works: The macro-economic Dimension, Support to the labour Based Policy Promotion Initiative,
June 2000.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Full text of the Borrower's Contribution
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND COMMUNICATIONS
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2587 - UG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERMANENT SECRETARY
MINISTRY OF WORKS,
HOUSING & COMMUNICATIONS
P.O. BOX 10
ENTEBBE
E-mail: twins@infocom.co.ug                 DECEMBER, 2000
- 34 -



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
A. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
B.1 Main Roads
B.2 Feeder and rural roads
B.3 Transport Planning
B.4 Railways
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
E.1 Project Identification
E.2 Project Preparation
E.3 Project Appraisal
E.4 Project Monitoring/Supervision
G. PERFORMANCE OF CO-FINANCIERS
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
ANNEXES
- 35-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA - TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Rehabilitation Project for which an
IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 54.5 million (US$ 75 million equivalent) was signed on May 03, 1994
and became effective on November 29, 1994. The credit closes on December 31, 2000. This project was
the first of its kind where its full implementation and management was done by the Ministry's in-house
staff. Due to the nature of the project complexity to the implementing agencies at that time, a number of
mistakes were made and out of these mistakes, lesson were leamt and now the ministry has built up
satisfactory capacity to effectively and efficiently manage the country's transport infrastructure.
This report is the borrowers contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport
Rehabilitation Project. The report gives an overall view of the project achievements and failures and
details are given shown under the appendices..
A.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The Project Objectives were to assist the Government in providing basic road and rail infrastructure to
the economy, and ensuring that the infrastructure would be well maintained and effectively managed on
a sustainable level, with private sector involvement wherever practicable.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Despite delayed commencement resulting in loss of time coupled with constraints experienced at
implementation, the project achieved most of its physical, development and capacity building objectives.
These achievements can be generally summarised below;-
B.1   Main Roads
The rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of the road infrastructure has resulted in the reduction
of travel times and this has enhanced the growth in economic activities resulting in improved standard of
living for the local population.
Strengthening and Widening of Kampala-Entebbe road was successfully completed and this intervention
has greatly increased the service life of the road. Travel time has been reduced by 30% and the traffic
volume has tremendously increased. The Mbrara-lbanda road was upgraded to bitumen standards and
this has led to increase in traffic and reduction in travel times.
-36-



A total of 1,746 Km of the main roads have been receiving adequate mechanised and manual
maintenance and 484 Km of feeder roads were rehabilitated. The improved maintenance levels and road
conditions has led to improved accessibility to social services, increased traffic volumes, reduced travel
times and vehicle operating costs. Unfortunately, the improvement has not led to a corresponding
decline in accidents. Through the project, regular annual maintenance programmes were developed and
these have since been adopted for entire country road maintenance programmes. In order to improve on
planning and monitoring of road maintenance operations, a Road Maintenance Management System was
developed.
There was a very big time lag between the commencement of the project and the commencement of
technical assistance activities. The ministry in this case procured most of the maintenance contracts and
got the activities started using in-house capacity. The Twinning arrangement allowed the Ministry staff to
carry out most of the activities with the TA playing an advisory role. A total of 48 domestic contractors
were supported and developed to undertake road maintenance works and the continued support and
growth of this industry will be through the availability of continuous and steady flow of work. This scheme
was successful as evidenced by the increased number of construction equipment now available in the
country.
B.2   Feeder and rural roads
On the whole the districts were able to meet their target routine maintenance objectives and succeeded
in establishing a reasonable road maintenance organisation. Effective work programmes, budget and
tendering systems were put in place. Contract documents for both rehabilitation and routine maintenance
works were developed and are now in use.
Computer based systems for efficient compiling of bills of quantities for new contracts and also
processing of data from the site 'take off" measurements to produce prompt monthly payment
certificates were installed in the districts of Tororo, Mbale, Pallisa and Tororo. District Engineers and
Supervisors of Works were trained to use the system for contract preparations. The criteria for compiling
road inventory and condition data including prioritisation methods developed under the Transport
Planners Contract are being applied.
Specifically the improvement of the transport infrastructure contributed to increased economic activities
and the standard of living of the rural population. Based on the baseline survey conducted in 1994 before
and in 1997 during the project implementation, there was a percentage increase in disposable incomes
of 20% as a result of increased farm gate prices. A total of 20 contractors were trained to undertake
rehabilitation works and another 28 were trained to undertake medium sized maintenance contracts.
Sufficient database for feeder roads planning established under the contract of the Transport Planner
was transferred to MOWHC following the realignment of Government Ministries in may, 1998. The
database is now managed by the local staff. Thirteen manuals were developed under the project and
harmonised with those produced under other programmes to assist District Engineers in the planing and
implementation of road rehabilitation and maintenance programme using standardised reporting and
budgeting formats.
- 37 -



B.3   Transport Planning
Monitoring and evaluation of four trunk road feasibility studies was done using the World Bank's HDM
model. With the introduction of the HDM programme, the Ministry is now capable of carrying out
economic analysis of different road projects.
B.4   Railways
The project has greatly contributed to the current status whereby Uganda Railways Corporation has now
moved towards a commercially oriented and less dependent on financial subsides from the Govemment.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
The delay from the project identification stage (1991) to actual execution of the major project (1995) and
the extremely low estimated costs had an adverse effect especially in respect of the main roads
contracts. Other set-backs were due to the slow process in procuring road equipment for the feeder roads
component. Training of the labour-based contractors could start only after completion of the rehabilitation
of the Training Centre. This in itself affected the commencement of civil works in that the contractors had
to undergo training before being qualified for participation in the programme.
Local Contracting CaDacity
At the time of project implementation, there were no competent and reliable Local contractors capable of
executing both mechanised and labour based operations. This was generally due to past practices where
most maintenance works were undertaken through direct labour. Consequently, the first two years of
project implementation was devoted to training. Poor performance by some contractors resulted in some
contracts being dropped at the trial stage mainly under the Feeder roads component.
Procurement of Contractor's eguiDment:
Contractors received road rehabilitation equipment three years into project implementation due to delays
in procurement. This affected project implementation in that trial contracts could not be executed. In
addition all lease payments by all the contractors were scheduled to end by December 2000, however,
current indications are that this will not be possible.
Procurement of Civil Works contract
Procurement of civil works contracts took longer than planned. The process took an average of 5 months
to between invitations to bid and award of contracts. These delays were due to the Bank's requirement
for a review of all documents before giving a "No Objection". In addition large scale contracting was
generally new to all the maintenance stations and as a result contract supervision was generally poor.
Fundina
Untimely availability of funds under the Feeder roads component resulted in delays in payments and this
resulted in low productivity because contractors could not meet their cashflow requirements.
Chanaes in costs.
Procurement delays caused changes in scope of works due to the fast deterioration of the roads. To
mitigate possible cost overruns due to increased scope of works, a number of roads were dropped. The
- 38 -



cost of upgrading of Mbarara-lbanda road costs rose from the SAR estimate of US$ 14.01 million to US$
24.9 million. This was generally due to insufficient design. Costs on Kampala-Entebbe road from the
SAR US$ 5.5 million to US$ 8.43 million, and this was due rapid increase in traffic volumes.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The sustainability of the structures and systems built by the project is likely. The is evidenced by
Govemment's commitment to continually increase the road maintenance budget and also to ensure the
timely availability of resources for maintenance. Increased private sector participation and the related
financial incentives will further enhance the sustainability of the programmes.
Further to ensure sustainability, the following have been established:-
The Uganda Highways Maintenance Management System and a road data base have been
developed and are currently operational at the ministry headquarters. This will ensure effective and
timely planning, budgeting and programming.
Special Road Maintenance Accounts have been established and are now fully operational.
In order to enhance proper budgeting and monitoring, a planning model namely; the Transport
Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditure Programme (TSIREP) has been established and is
now fully operational
A road maintenance policy strategy is in place.
All the road network policies are now managed under one ministry.
The training school, Kyambogo is adequately equipped with the essential training equipment and that
in Mbale was rehabilitated and is now fully operational.
A number of local contractors have been trained and developed and are now adequately equipped to
undertake road maintenance works.
The Ministry's Technical Staff had acquired the necessary skills to effectively supervise contract
works.
Uganda Railways is now operating on a commercial basis without government subsidies.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
The Performance of the bank during project identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. The Bank's performance is summarised below;
E.1   Project Identification
The Identification Mission collaborated closely with Government and District Officials during project
identification. This resulted into well conceived project concepts. Failure to meet some project targets
was a result of factors that emerged during project implementation and could not have been reasonably
foreseen. The Bank's performance on identification can be rated as satisfactory. Due to delays in project
commencement, some operations recommended for some roads, were not appropriate at time of
implementation. Therefore, in future works identification should seriously considered the time frame
between project identification and implementation.
- 39-



E.2   Project Preparation
Labour-based technology was a new concept in Uganda at the time, there was lack of sufficient
knowledge on the part of Government staff to prepare a project of that nature. The Bank therefore
provided government with PPF to commission expertise from the International labour Organisation to
carry-out project preparation and the national staff were encouraged to get involved in project
implementation.
Costing of the operations under the main roads was based on extremely low rates which were
subsequently taken over by time as reflected in the big bid variance with contractors rates. On the feeder
roads component, categorising of contractors into full rehabilitation, spot improvement and culverting
contractors to respond to scope of works later became irrelevant. This was due to change in scope
resulting form procurement delays.
The equipment packages proposed for the contractors during project preparations appeared to be
overcapitalised. The packages were subsequently reviewed downwards by the implementing Consultant
and based on the individual contractor's performance, some equipment was re-allocated resulting in 15
instead of the planned 12 contractors being equipped.
E.3   Project Appraisal
*     There was a risk of inadequate counterpart funding. This was however overcome by Government
effective control over the budget which resulted in the establishment of Special Road Maintenance
Accounts that are now fully operational.
There has been a continuation of Public Expenditure Reviews and this has enable government
strengthen its commitment to road maintenance. In order to improve on Government's management of
public investments, the Transport Sector Investment and Expenditure Programme planning model has
been established and is now operational. This has greatly enhanced government's ability to plan, budget
and monitor road maintenance programmes.
There was a risk that URC would make insufficient progress in transforming itself into a
commercial enterprises. The Corporation has been restructured and despite some problems, the
corporation is now operating without government subsidies.
E.4   Project Monitoring/Supervision
The World Bank' monitoring/supervision was satisfactory. In order to enhance the operation efforts, the
Bank has included in their transport team a locally based Engineer. This fact greatly enhanced
communication and effectiveness of the continuity of the operations.
F.    BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The Project was supervised and monitored by Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications for the
Main Roads and Transport Planning components, Ministry of Local Government for the Feeder and Rural
roads component and Uganda Railways Corporation for the railways component. In general the
Borrowers performance was satisfactory and counterpart funding though poor at project commencement,
has now improved with the introduction of TSIREP. The preparations were done in reasonable time and
chronological order is as follows:-
The Ministry of Works, Housing and Communication (MOWCH) was responsible for the overall
supervision and implementation of the agreements spelt out in the Development Credit Agreement
- 40 -



(DCA) for the main roads.
-     Project identification                   :     1991
-     Project Launch - (Main roads component)        July 01, 1994
-     Project Launch - (Feeder roads component)      January 27, 1995
-     Credit Effectiveness Date                      November 29, 1994
-     Date of Credit Closure                  December 31, 2000
The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) was responsible for the overall supervision, until restructuring
of government departments in 1998, and implementation of the agreements spelt out in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for the Feeder and Rural road component while the participating
Districts took responsibility for Routine Road Maintenance. However, following the ministerial; reforms of
May 1998, the Engineering Department in the Ministry of Local Govemment which was responsible for
the project implementation was transferred to the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
(MOWHC). Project activities were then transferred to MOWHC accordingly.
The preparation of the project can be considered to be satisfactory especially in terms of meeting the
objectives for which the project was intended. However, as the project and its complexity was the first of
its kind, the borrower did not have adequate capacity to effectively mange it in the early stages. Mistakes
were made and lessons learnt and now the ministry has built capacity to effectively and efficiently mange
the transport infrastructure.
The borrowers performance in setting up the institutional arrangement to enable smooth implementation
of the project was satisfactory. Each component had a Co-ordinator with overall responsibility of
co-ordinating the various activities under the respective project components. All the co-ordination centres
were centrally located thus enabling easy communication between the responsible parties. Furthermore,
the borrower managed to appoint capable and qualified personnel to manage the respect project
components and this resulted in the relatively successful implementation of most of the project activities.
Under the Transport Planning Component, the Borrower failed to provide counterpart personnel on phase
two of the project and phase 2 of the programme could therefore not commence. This component was
later transferred to RAFU.
G.    PERFORMANCE OF CO-FINANCIERS
Under the feeder Roads Component, part of the funding amounting to US$ 4.86 million was provided by
the Nordic Development Fund (NDF). Releases by NDF were prompt and timely and this resulted in the
implementation and completion of the training programme on schedule. The performance was very
successful.
- 41 -



H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
For the Main and Feeder roads, Government is committed to ensuring the timely and adequate
availability of resources for road maintenance and the programme will continue running under full
government funding. Furthermore, the ministry's policy is to increasingly engage the private sector in the
execution of most road works and this will definitely sustain the local industry while at the same time
ensuring the road network is efficiently and effectively maintained. The Management of the railways will
increasingly be operated on a commercial basis so as to realise better profits and meeting customer
satisfacton.
Future programmes under the Transport Planning component will be economic analysis of studies
funded by other donors, setting up and operating an integrated and consistent traffic and road data base.
1.    KEY LESSONS LEARNT
At the Project Identification stage, account should be taken on the time frame between project
preparation and project execution when specifying the type of intervention method. This Ume lag
results in tremendous change in scope of works as was the case on some roads that were identified
for routine maintenance but at execution intervention called for rehabilitation.
Involvement of the stakeholders right from project design is a key factor in the smooth
implementation of the project and a fertile ground for future sustainability of the project.
Adequate and timely availability of funding is an indispensable condition for successful project
implementation and sustainable maintenance. The project under the feeder roads component, was
unable to achieve its rehabilitation target partly because of cashflow shortages caused by long
replenishment cycle.
The equipment packages proposed were too big for new evolving contractors under the feeder roads
component and contractor development program should consider provision of basic minimum set
with option to expand on business growth and construction industry demands. Medium size
mechanised contractors should also be supported by way of providing a facility for acquiring
equipment on a loan basis as was done on the feeder road component.
Though the road maintenance contracts were considered to be short term, they way not subject to
price adjustments. However, experience has shown that the changes in the dollar value have be
affecting cost of operations and it is therefore inevitable that such contracts are subject to price
adjustment.
Procurement delays were experienced during at the early stages of project implementation. This was
made in order to put the necessary facilities before commencement of actual works, and the had an
effect on the overall project duration. Therefore in future, a possibility of incorporating an inception
period should be considered before the project effective commences. Such an arrangement who
help reduce time loss during the preparation phase.
The twinning arrangement did not fully meet its intended objectives mainly due to way its was
developed. It is recommended that such arrangements should be of a specialised nature where the
- 42 -



input would introduce skills that would help improve the respective system
The expenditure thresholds should be carefully considered. As a way of developing the industry, the
local contractors should be given an opportunity to engage in big value contracts where they would
be able to bigger capital returns.
- 43 -



- 44 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25487
UGANDA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                  A N                           //
TRANSPORT NETWORK
i    Proiew R-&ds   (S"t.e g9eg Upr' d,MCY                                          -
bh- -)Y) ~ ~  ~     .'- 
-   -, bt                                                                        Koo.o-g
Rp-.  gd   I                       A      -                r                  ', -.
_ _ P.,n,or grovel   r-1  -,YDJ            i \                                    oc
__ Scordory gr<el   / |   rS    f/  _g ,  .,  ~~~~~~KITGUt.    ~- \ +       K E N Y A
S..M-doy 0o-I       1
. _ rsrtiorr blhmen r' ) fx.                                       ~I F  --    \  KENYA. - 
Te,iny greI                                                          --------
- MYh r             f..A                         \                         KOTIDO/    -
*    Nahondl cupito \tvIC_ j  < 1            ,                 _k                     .'  <I
JINJA-   -  -   -pit1,o  y
  fId~                                                                             N   -RTo
R  -di                   NE    p
mstes o   zo   o   ;g~~~~~~    ;  - N   h   /  \ ~~~~ APAC  _          }/\  
-2  -  f  , t t -X AN 2ka oruf > | f-- 
>S   _  7 ..K5S,\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d
4     N~~~~~~~~~4/.
~~~~~~~~~~~~- ;_  <K tu                             B.odo-                       --no/ /  9      A - 1 ~
I             /A 9rt  5  ^  5  (  r   MAiiA  ---e    -     -     .OIMA)  (      H
RAKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t         5      Ly~~~   ~~ (n 0 RAICAa               Dalo, ofKz=  ' iaA. -   esI  ,  g_n    o~9 o . h i~hQ
N                                 K t z   XX   a
AMULIN         19I 
UWERC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffl.z'.u
_______________________________________________________t-~
4~~~~~~~ND4UGYO/             K",~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AURY19



