Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2587 UG
                   Development Credit Agreement
                (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 3, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2587 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1994, between  THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
March 3, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the transport sector
of its economy (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) a loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to about
$4,700,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDF; and
      (D)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by Uganda
Railways Corporation (URC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
Page  2
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to URC a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and URC;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOWTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works,
Transport and Communications;
      (b)   "MOLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government;
      (c)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 31, 1991,
September 7, 1992, December 23, 1992, January 28, 1993,
September 27, 1993 and September 29, 1993, between the Borrower and
the Association;
      (d)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and URC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (f)   "URC Statute" means Uganda Railways Corporation Statute,
Statute No. 13 of 1992 of the Borrower's laws;
      (g)   "URC" means Uganda Railways Corporation, established and
existing under the URC Statute;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Uganda Railways Corporation (URC), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (i)   "Implementation Manual" means a detailed work plan for
the implementation of the Project, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, to be prepared by the Borrower;
      (j)   "Performance Agreement" means the agreement dated
January 28, 1994, between the Borrower and URC covering, inter alia,
URC's capital structure, financial strategy, including tariffs, debt
collection and marketing strategy and the Borrower's obligation to
compensate URC for non-remunerative services to be rendered by URC;
      (k)   "FY" means, as appropriate, the financial or fiscal year
of the Borrower, its District Administrations or URC;
      (l)   "TSIREP" means the Borrower's Transport Sector
Page  3
Investment and Recurrent Expenditures Plan for FY95 through FY97,
which forms an integral part of the Program referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement, and shall include subsequent rolling
three-year plans through FY2000;
      (m)   "NPRM" means the Borrower's National Prioritized Main
Roads Maintenance Program (FY95-FY98);
      (n)   "MRMP" means the Main Roads Maintenance Program to be
carried out under Part A.1 of the Project; and
      (o)   "Credit 1803-UG" means the Credit made by the
Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Development Credit
Agreement entered into by the Borrower and the Association on
May 29, 1987 to assist in financing the Borrower's Fourth Highway
Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-four million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 54,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. Dollars two special deposit accounts
(Special Account "A" and Special Account "B") in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
Page  4
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project
                   through MOWTC, MOLG and District Administrations
                   with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with appropriate administrative and
                   financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                   as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources required for such Parts of the
                   Project; and
           (ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Development
Page  5
                   Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause URC
                   to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable URC to
                   perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out  Parts A, B and
D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall for the purposes of Part C of the
Project: (i) make available to URC a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit as an equity contribution to URC's capital, and (ii) relend
a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to URC under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and URC,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall include repayment in 15 years, including 5
years of grace, the payment of interest at the rate of 7% per annum,
and the exchange risk to be borne by URC.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
C of the Project shall be carried out by URC pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by not later than July 1,
1995 commence to compensate URC for all Borrower-directed, non-
remunerative services provided by URC.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, no later than January 31 in
each year of Project implementation, with effect from January 31,
1995, review with the Association the size and composition of
TSIREP.
      Section 3.06. (a) In order to ensure a meaningful
implementation of the Program the Borrower shall not make, or cause
any investments to be made, in the transport sector, which were not
included in the TSIREP, which exceed the equivalent of $5 million in
any one year without prior consultation with, and the consent of the
Association. The Association's consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
      (b)   The Borrower shall further ensure that any investment
outside TSIREP which exceeds the equivalent of $1 million shall only
be carried out if its economic rate of return is not less than
twelve percent.
      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall conduct, not later than
March 31, 1996, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of
the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the review shall, inter alia, cover the implementation
Page  6
and management aspects of the Project, implementation procedures,
progress made by the Project including transfer of responsibility to
local staff, revision of the strategy paper for rural feeder roads
maintenance and rehabilitation, evaluation of the financing
mechanism for main roads maintenance, review of MOWTC's mandate with
respect to road maintenance, environmental measures taken,
performance and use of technical assistance personnel, the role of
national counterpart staff, the status and results of training,
reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement procedures
and the overall sustainability of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than ninety (90) days prior to the midterm
review referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in implementing the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account "A" and Special Account
                   "B" for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                   with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such expen-
                   ditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Accounts was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
Page  7
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   URC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that URC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The URC Statute shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of URC to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of URC or for the suspension of its operations.
      (f)   The Borrower shall have: (i) failed to make adequate
allocations, consistent with the Program, for main-roads related
recurrent expenditures in its budgets for FY95, FY96, FY97, FY98 and
subsequent years; (ii) failed to make timely and adequate releases
of such funds from the budgetary allocations made for the
maintenance of main-roads in FY95, FY96 or FY97 and subsequent
years; or (iii) failed to carry out adequate routine and periodic
road maintenance work on the main roads network.
      (g)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
Page  8
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association with: (i)
a Transport Sector Investment and Recurrent Expenditures Plan for
FY95 through FY97; and (ii) an Implementation Manual, all
satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   MOWTC and MOLG have appointed key personnel, with
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to
paragraphs 1 (a) and 6 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by URC, and is legally binding upon
URC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O.Box 8147
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                    61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
Page  9
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                95%
    (a)  under Part A(2)      22,000,000
         and (3) of the
         Project
    (b)  under Part B          3,400,000
         of the Project
(2) Road Maintenance:                           FY95-60%
                                                FY96-60%
    (a)  under Part A (1)      9,340,000        FY97-40%
         of the Project                         FY98-40%
    (b)  under Part B (1)        270,000        FY95-10%
         of the Project                         FY96-10%
                                                FY97-45%
                                                FY98-45%
(3) Vehicles, equipment,                        100% of foreign
    tools, office machines                      expenditures
    and training tools:
    (a)  under Part A            230,000
         of the Project
    (b)  under Part B          1,900,000
         of the Project
                             Amount of the
Page  10
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
    (c)  under Part C            112,200
         of the Project
(4) Consultants'                                95%
    Services and
    training:
    (a) under Part A           3,100,000
        of the Project
    (b) under Part B            350,000
        of the Project
    (c) under Part C           1,250,000
        of the Project
    (d) under Part D             550,000
        of the Project
(5) Operating Costs              145,000        60%
    under Part B of
    the Project
(6) Refunding of               1,100,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated               10,752,800
                              __________
         TOTAL                54,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "operating costs" means incremental
expenditures incurred for the operation and maintenance of vehicles.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) Categories (1)
(a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a), unless the Borrower has made an
allocation of not less than 16.2 billion Uganda Shillings for main-
roads maintenance related expenditures in its FY95 budget; (c)
Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5), unless: (i)
MOLG has employed a team of consultants pursuant to paragraph 6 (a)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (ii) all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the NDF Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
and (d) Categories (3) (c), and (4) (c) unless: (i) the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall have been executed by the Borrower and URC,
(ii) URC has appointed three key personnel pursuant to Section 4.04
of the Project Agreement, and (iii) the Borrower and URC have
established URC's capital structure pursuant to Section 5.5 of the
Performance Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  11
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(1) providing the basic road infrastructure to the economy and
ensuring that road and rail infrastructure are well maintained and
effectively managed on a sustainable level, (2) promoting the
private domestic contracting industry, and (3) reorienting URC's
management towards commercial operation and promotion of its
financial autonomy.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Main Roads
1.    (a)   Routine maintenance of about 1,746 km of roads, and (b)
Periodic maintenance of about 720 km of selected main roads as part
of the Borrower's four year (FY95-FY98) road maintenance program.
2.    Strengthening and improvement of the Kampala-Entebbe road.
3.    (a)   Upgrading the Mbarara-Ibanda and Gayaza-Bugema-Zirobwe
roads from gravel to paved standards.
      (b)   Regravelling and rehabilitation of the Zirobwe-Wobulenzi
and Villa Maria-Sembabule roads.
4.    Institutional strengthening of MOWTC through technical
assistance and training.
Part B:     Feeder Roads
1.    Implementation of a rehabilitation and maintenance program in
the Districts of Mbale, Kapchorwa, Tororo and Pallisa including: (a)
rehabilitation of about 680 km of feeder roads, (b) implementation
of a four-year (FY95-FY98) feeder road maintenance program, and (c)
establishment of a feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance
capacity in the private and public sectors.
2.    Institutional strengthening of the engineering department of
MOLG and district works departments through training and technical
assistance.
Part C:     Railways
      Institutional strengthening of URC through technical
assistance, training, maintenance of wagon ferries and acquisition
of oil containment equipment.
Part D:     Transport Sector Planning
      Strengthening MOWTC's planning capacity through technical
assistance and training.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Page  12
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part (A) (1)(b), (2) and (3)
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10
of the Guidelines.
3.    Goods procured under ICB will not be subject to price
verification under preshipment inspection.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items, or groups of items, for civil works for: (a) mechanized
routine road maintenance under Part A (1)(a) of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $12,100,000, (b) periodic
road maintenance under Part A (1)(b) of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, and (c) for road
rehabilitation and periodic road maintenance works under Part B.1 of
the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,600,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    (a)   Training equipment under Part A of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, and (b) hand tools under
Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    (a)   Manual routine road maintenance under Part A (1)(a) of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,800,000, (b)
manual road maintenance under Part B of the Project estimated to
Page  13
cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured on unit
price basis, through contract lengthman's system in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B and
D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each for firms, and less than $50,000 equivalent
each for individuals. However, this exception to prior Association
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts
or to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of
firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined
by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above for firms or to
$50,000 equivalent or above for individuals.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Page  14
Part A of the Project
1.    MOWTC shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of
the Project. To this end MOWTC shall: (a) assign at least three
principal executive engineers to its road maintenance section, and
(b) employ consultants for construction supervision of road
strengthening and improvement; road upgrading, regravelling and
rehabilitation; and institutional strengthening.
2.    The Borrower shall: (a) adopt NPRM and MRMP the size and
composition of which shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) implement NPRM and MRMP in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, for FY95 through FY98.
3.    Not later than four months before the beginning of each FY,
with effect from FY95, the Borrower shall review with the
Association the proposed NPRM, including MRMP for that fiscal year,
with budget requirements and allocations.
4.    MOWTC shall, by not later than November 30, 1994, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review a training program for
MOWTC staff, and thereafter implement the program taking due account
of the Association's views and comments.
5.    The Borrower shall, by not later than March 31, 1996, review:
(a) its financing mechanism to determine the adequacy of local
counterpart funding, including the timeliness, reliability and
transparency of budgetary allocations and releases, with a view of
adopting an effective mechanism, satisfactory to the Association,
with effect from FY97, and (b) the performance of MOWTC in executing
its mandate with respect to road maintenance, and introduce
revisions to such mandate, as appropriate.
Part B of the Project
6.    (a)   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the four
districts referred to in Part B.1 of the Project (the Participating
Districts), with the assistance of the Engineering Department of
MOLG and a team of consultants.
      (b)   MOLG shall also assign adequate staff to assist in the
implementation of Part B of the Project including a project manager
to be stationed in Mbale, two district engineers to be stationed in
Mbale and Tororo, respectively, and an economist and a planner in
its Engineering Department.
7.    The Borrower shall adopt four-year rehabilitation and
maintenance programs (FY95-FY98), the size and composition of which
shall be satisfactory to the Association, for feeder roads in the
participating districts.
8.    Each district and MOLG shall review with the Association the
size and composition of its feeder roads rehabilitation and
maintenance program for the ensuing FY, as well as physical,
financial and staff inputs and work outputs in the preceding FY at
least four months before the beginning of each FY.
9.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure: (a)that the local 
costs of the agreed routine maintenance program for
feeder roads in the participating districts shall be shared equally
by the Borrower and each district, and (b) that the Borrower shall
bear at least five percent of all periodic maintenance costs.
10.   In order to strengthen domestic contractors' capacity to carry
out road rehabilitation works, MOLG shall, by not later than July 1,
1995, adopt a scheme, satisfactory to the Association, under which
MOLG-owned equipment procured under the Credit and Credit No. 1803-
UG would be leased to contractors under the supervision of
consultants.
11.   MOLG shall employ a transport planner to implement a suitable
feeder roads planning and monitoring system, and to train a team of
Page  15
MOLG staff in transport planning and management.
12.   (a)   In order to assess the impact of the feeder roads
program in the four participating districts and the comparative
advantages of labor-based and equipment-based methods, MOLG's
Engineering Department shall carry out a baseline study to be
completed by not later than November 30, 1994.
      (b)   MOLG shall not later than June 30, 1995: (i) establish
and implement a monitoring system, covering feeder roads activities
and the impact of the feeder roads program on the rural economy, and
(ii) complete a road inventory data base covering the participating
districts.
13.   MOLG shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, revise its
strategy paper and action plan on feeder roads rehabilitation and
maintenance and adopt financing methods and techniques which have
proven to be most effective in light of experience during the
implementation of Part B of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (4) (d) in the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with respect to Special
Account "A", Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b) and (5)
in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, with respect to Special Account "B";
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount not
exceeding $1,000,000 for Special Account "A", and an amount not
exceeding $250,000 of Special Account "B", to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in each of the Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
Page  16
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
Page  17
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
