CREDIT NUMBER 2587 UG
Project Agreement
(Transport Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UGANDA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Dated                             , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2587 UG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /                       , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAION (the Association) and UGANDA
RAILWAYS CORPORATION (URC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-four
million    five   hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 54,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that URC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and URC, a portion of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
relent to URC on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS URC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. URC declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-2-
administrative, financial, environmental, engineering, and commer-
cial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for Part C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. URC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part C of the Project.
Section 2.04. URC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, URC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) URC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   URC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by URC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of URC
Section 3.01. URC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
environmental and commercial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.


﻿- 3 -
Section 3.02. URC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
commercial practices.
Section 3.03. URC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) URC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   URC shall:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-4
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, URC shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995 a ratio of total operating
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 110% in 1996,
103% in 1997, 102% in 1998, and 94% in 1999.
(b)   Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, URC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by URC and satisfactory to
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that URC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for URC's fiscal years
covered by such review, URC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(      The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses  related   to  operations,  including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
of not less than 2.5% per annum of the average
current gross value of URC's fixed assets in
operation, or other basis acceptable to the
Association, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(ii)    The  term  "total  operating  revenues" means
revenues from all sources related to operations,
excluding compensation from the Borrower for
Borrower-directed   non-remunerative  services
provided by URC.
(iii)    The average current gross value of URC's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of URC's
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and
at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
time to time in accordance with sound and


﻿-5-
consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. URC shall take all measures necessary to: (a)
ensure that by July 1 of each year of Project implementation with
effect from July 1, 1995, no more than twenty-five percent of all
bills issued after July 1, of the immediately preceding year are
overdue by more than three months, and (b) promptly submit claims
for compensation by the Borrower for Borrower-directed non-
remunerative services provided by URC in accordance with the
Performance Agreement.
Section 4.04. In order to implement its institutional
strengthening program, URC shall employ a transition management
adviser, a financial management specialist and a marketing and
traffic operations specialist, whose qualifications shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of URC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the Development    Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)    the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify URC of
this event.


﻿-6-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For URC:
Uganda Railways Corporation
P.O. Box 7150
Kampala, Uganda
Telex:
61111 URAIL


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of URC may be taken or executed by the Managing
Director or such other person or persons as the Managing Director
shall designate in writing, and URC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /g/            k     .  ?Yc~
C J~ Regional Vice President
Africa
UGANDA RAILWAYS CORPORATION
By to/ rized Reprsen t
Authrzed Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Oil spill containment equipment,     computers and software
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $194,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Contracts for proprietary spare parts may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With  respect to each    contract for equipment    and
computers estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In  order  to  assist URC   in  the  implementation  of  its
institutional strengthening program, URC shall employ consultants


﻿- 9 -
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, URC
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, URC shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$20,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
SECRETARY


