Document of
FILE Copy                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2355-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Effective May 10, 1978)
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00 = J$1.55
J$1.00 = US$0.64
Government of Jamaica Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
DVCF      Development Venture Capital Financing Ltd.
GOJ       Government of Jamaica
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IiL       Industrial Incentives Law
JDB       Jamaica Development Bank
JETCO     Jamaica Export Trading Company
JIB       Jamaica Institute of Bankers
JIDC      Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation
NPA       National Planning Agency
0DM       Overseas Development Ministry
PIC       Premier Investment Corporation
SBDC      Small Business Development Centre
SBFS      Small Businessmen's Financing Scheme
SBLB      Small Business Loan Board
SEDCO     Small Enterprise Development Corporation
SIDD      Small Industries Development Division
SSE       Small-Scale Enterprises
STC       State Trading Company
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA - SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Jamaica.
Beneficiary:                  Bank of Jamaica (BOJ).
Small Enterprise Development Corporation (SEDCO).
Amount:                       US$7 million.
Terms:                        Payable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, at 7-1/2% per annum.
Relending Terms:              The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) will onlend the
proceeds of the loan to BOJ and SEDCO in Jamaican
currency equivalents at the same rate of interest
and for the same period as that specified in the
Bank loan to the GOJ, with the GOJ bearing the
exchange risk.
Project Description:          The principal objectives of the project are to
promote the development of small-scale enter-
prises (SSEs) by providing medium- and long-term
credits to SSEs for their investment and working
capital needs and to strengthen the institutions
providing financial and technical services to
them. Credits will be made available under the
project to larger SSEs (enterprises with net
fixed assets of up to US$100,000, excluding real
property) through the commercial banking system
and to the very small SSEs (enterprises with net
fixed assets of up to US$20,000 excluding real
property) through a new institution, the Small
Enterprise Development Corporation (SEDCO),
designed to serve such enterprises. It is
anticipated that the project would provide about
100 credits to larger SSEs, averaging about
US$69,000 each and about 300 credits to very small
SSEs, averaging about US$13,000 each.
Commercial bank onlending to SSEs has been prin-
cipally restricted to short-term loans secured by
sizable collateral. The project would help
mobilize the resources of the commercial banking
system for making medium- and long-term loans to
SSEs, based on project appraisal. It would also
assist the development of SEDCO to help the
smallest of the SSEs.
This documsnt hasarstftd distfibution snd may be uwd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dised without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
In view of the current uncertain investment
climate in Jamaica, the untested institutional
arrangements, and relative inexperience of some
of the sub-borrowers, the project is riskier than
the Bank's more traditional DFC lending. However,
the technical assistance provided by the project
and the close monitoring intended by the Bank,
reduce project risks to acceptable levels.
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign        Total
-----(In millions of US$)-----
I.  Financing of
Modern SSEs                          2.40        4.50           6.90
II. Financing of very
Small SSEs                           2.00        2.00           4.00
III.  Technical Assistance                 0.25        0.50           0.75
Total                            4.65        7.00          11.65
Financing Plan:                              Local       Foreign        Total
-----(In millions of US$)-----
IBRD Loan                                   -        7.00           7.00
Commercial Banks                         1.20           -           1.20
Small Enterprise Development
Corp. (SEDCO)                          1.00           _           1.00
GOJ                                      0.25           -           0.25
SSEs                                     2.20                       2.20
TOTAL                              4.65        7.00          11.65
Estimated Disbursements:
------------(In millions of US$)-----------
In Bank FY              FY79          FY80          FY81          FY82
Annual                    0.9           2.5           2.5           1.1
Cumulative                0.9           3.4           5.9           7.0
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 1951-JM, June 15, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$7.0 million to help finance a
project for small-scale enterprise development. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7-1/2%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Current Memorandum on Jamaica" was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 2, 1978. The findings of that
report are incorporated in this section. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex 1.
3.       Many of the long-term structural problems of the Jamaican economy
today have their origin in the pattern of growth of the 1960s. During the
decade following independence in 1962, several key sectors of the Jamaican
economy, particularly bauxite/alumina and tourism, experienced rapid growth.
Large private capital inflows from abroad underpinned investments in these
sectors, and these same capital inflows enabled Jamaica to finance increasing
deficits on the current account of the balance of payments. However, invest-
ment during this period bypassed the agricultural sector, the traditional
source of Jamaica's employment opportunities. Moreover, the system of indus-
trial incentives and protection, coupled with a high industrial wage struc-
ture, led to the development of a sector which was excessively capital inten-
sive, provided relatively little employment and was heavily dependent on the
import of intermediate goods. The failure to foment agricultural and manufac-
turing production implied high levels of unemployment, increasing migration to
urban centers and a widening of the income inequality.
4.       The Government which came to power in 1972 set economic diversifica-
tion, employment and redistribution of income as its priority goals. This
strategy created an atmosphere of uncertainty with the immediate result of
reduced investment activity by the private sector. The implementation of the
structural changes sought by the Government was further complicated by several
external and internal factors. The completion of a major investment cycle in
tourism and mining in the country, the increase in petroleum and other commod-
ity prices in late 1973 and the world recession of 1974-75 had serious reper-
cussions on the country's balance of payments. As a result of the ensuing
import restrictions, the serious labor problems in some sectors and the
political and economic uncertainty, private sector investment activity
stagnated. The situation was further aggravated by the migration of skilled
manpower and the massive outflow of private funds. In an effort to avoid un-
acceptably high levels of unemployment, the Government undertook an expansion



- 2 -
of public sector activity in certain areas of investment which had hitherto
been dominated by the private sector. This expansion in public investment
and employment programs was not accompanied by an increase in public sector
savings, with the result that the overall financing deficit of the Central
Government in 1976/77 amounted to 18.6% of GDP. Since this coincided with a
modest reduction in external capital inflows, there was unprecedented reliance
on financing from the banking system, equivalent to 11.6% of GDP. By the end
of 1976, therefore, the economy was in the midst of a severe fiscal and
balance of payments crisis.
5.       In January 1977, after having been re-elected, the Government began
to take measures to alleviate the country's severe economic problems. These
measures included a new tax effort, a wages policy for both the public and
private sectors, tightening of the import restrictions and exchange rate
adjustment. In July 1977, the Government adopted a comprehensive program
covering a period of almost two years, and this program became the basis for
an agreement with the IMF on a Stand-by arrangement. Under this arrangement,
Jamaica drew the first tranche of US$22 million but was unable to remain
eligible for the second drawing in December 1977. A principal reason for
the Government's inability to meet the Stand-by targets was that it had over-
estimated its capacity to resist wage pressures in both the public and private
sectors, and this, in turn, had an impact on both the fiscal and monetary
variables. In addition its ability to meet the Stand-by targets was made
more difficult by revenue shortfall caused by a more rapidly deteriorating
economic situation than had been forecasted and a failure of certain external
financing to materialize. As a result of the slippages under the two-year
program which had been agreed to with the IMF, the Government reexamined the
constraints that such a program would imply. In addition to the problem of
maintaining a successful incomes policy, the Government was also concerned
about the extent of the decline in output and the increase in unemployment
that were accompanying the program. Rather than readjust the targets for
a two-year stabilization program, the Government and the IMF agreed that
the program should be revamped and negotiations were completed in early May
1978 for a three-year Extended Fund Facility arrangement, which would permit
a longer period for adjustment and also provide a higher level (about US$220
million for the next three years) of financial assistance from the IMF. The
key elements of this program include: (a) the unification of exchange rates
at the new level of US$1.00 = J$1.55 on May 10, 1978, to be followed by small
monthly devaluations, totalling about 15% over the next twelve months; (b) the
maximum annual limit of 15% increase per year for wages, including fringe
benefits over a two-year period; (c) the reduction of the fiscal deficit of
the public sector through expenditure cuts and a new tax package; (d) targets
for increases in public sector savings during the three-year Extended Fund
Facility period which will enable the Government to carry out its investment
program (formulated in consultation with the Bank) while progressively
reducing domestic and external deficit financing to levels consistent with
internal and external financial stability; and (e) the encouragement of private
sector investment. In addition, the program contains ceilings on net domestic
credit to the public sector from the banking system; limits on the net domestic
assets of the Bank of Jamaica; limits on the authorization of new foreign
indebtedness by public sector; targets for increases in the international
reserves; and provisions for orderly management of payment arrears. As a



--esult of the recent devaluation and adoption of the economic program, the rate
of inflation over the next 12 months may rise substantially above the 14% in
1977. The inflation rate in the succeeding twelve months is likely to moderate.
6.       Jamaica's balance of payments improved considerably during 1977,
reflecting both improved international demand for bauxite/alumina and the
effects of the domestic policy measures which were introduced to deal with
the crisis. The current account deficit was reduced to US$68 million, one of
the smallest deficits in recent years, compared to a level of US$303 million
in 1976. The situation also improved somewhat on the fiscal side. In reflec-
tion of the improved aluminum market, receipts from bauxite increased slightly.
This was accompanied by a 12% cut in nominal terms in capital expenditures.
Miainly as a result of these measures, the Central Government deficit was
reduced to about 15% of GDP which is still a large deficit but substantially
lower than the level of almost 19% of GDP in 1976/77.
7.       These accomplishments have been, however, at a heavy cost in terms
of output and employment. The drastic reduction of imports has led to the
closure or reduced activity of many distributing and manufacturing firms.
Capacity underutilization is very high and unemployment continues at the high
level of about 25% of the labor force. Real GDP is estimated to have declined
by at least 4% in 1977, following two successive years of negative real growth.
8.       The Government recently adopted a three-year public sector investment
program and the package of economic policy measures taken in conjunction with
the program agreed to with the IMF have the main objectives of: (a) increas-
ing production through new investment and through a more intensive use of the
present idle capacity; (b) ensuring that investment in social infrastructure
is maintained at a level which would avoid a substantial erosion of the real
standard of living of the population; and (c) reducing the external dependence
of the country through vigorous efforts at import-substitution and at increas-
ing public sector savings. The magnitude of the public sector investment
program, the sectoral details and the financing plan are included in Chapter
II of the Economic Memorandum on Jamaica.
9.       The current fiscal and balance of payments constraints have necessi-
tated a close scrutiny of all projects by the Government. It appears that the
program is realistic and contains no grandiose projects for which financing
seems unlikely. The level of capital expenditure in the program is consistent
with the Government's targets for total expenditure (current and capital)
under the stabilization program agreed to with the IMF.
10.      As a consequence of the tight balance of payments and fiscal situa-
tion during the first quarter of 1978, GDP is expected to grow in real terms
by only about 1.5% during the year. Growth prospects beyond 1978 appear some-
what brighter as the economy gradually overcomes the current short-term con-
straints. GDP growth rate, in real terms, is projected at 3% for 1979 and
4% in 1980. This rate of growth would require the economy to raise gross
domestic savings as proportion of GDP to about 25% by 1980, compared to about
14% in 1977.
11.      Assuming no major adverse economic developments in the industrialized
economies, and given favorable local weather conditions for agriculture, the
foreign exchange earnings of Jamaica should increase appreciably during the



next three years. This should enable the country not only to liberalize some-
what the current import restrictions but also to increase gross foreign
exchange reserves from the present precariously low level. The major thrust
behind the expansion in exports is expected to come from bauxite/alumina,
tourism and nontraditional exports.
12.      The estimated total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1977
amounted to approximately US$1,365 milion. Of this amount, about US$465
million was direct public debt, US$400 million was government-guaranteed debt
and the remaining US$500 million was private nonguaranteed debt. The public
debt service ratio, which stood at about 15% in 1977, is projected to increase
to about 19% in 1978, to decline to about 18% in 1979 and further decline to
15% in 1980. Provided Jamaica successfully carries out its economic program
and maintains its international competitiveness, it should be able to manage
its external indebtedness and be considered creditworthy for continued external
assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
13.       To date the Bank has made 18 loans in Jamaica totalling $220.4
million after cancellations. Of this amount $101.5 million (46%) has been
for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water
supply and sewerage; the remainder has gone into agriculture (19%), a program
loan (14%), education (10%), sites and services (7%), and population and
nutrition (4%). There have so far been two IFC investments in Jamaica; a
loan in 1961 to a pre-mix concrete company and an equity/loan investment in
1968 in a hotel project. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments as of April 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of
projects in Jamaica.
14.       Bank lending in Jamaica has been principally aimed at providing
transfers of long-term external capital to help finance the foreign exchange
component of high priority public sector investment projects. Bank lending
supports government programs designed to increase production and employment,
to achieve a wider distribution of the benefits of economic growth, and to
improve the country's economic infrastructure where inadequate facilities are
presently constraining development. It is also an important objective of Bank
lending to strengthen the public sector institutions associated with Bank-
financed projects by supporting policies designed to improve the quality of
management, their operating procedures and finances.
15.       After a lull in Bank lending in 1972/73--resulting largely from
institutional constraints and slow project preparation--the pace of Bank
operations picked up in FY74 and FY75, with an increased emphasis on projects
in the social sectors. Slow project preparation and, later in the period,
unsettled economic conditions reduced Bank lending to one loan each in FY76
and FY77. Bank lending in FY78 included two project loans--a $20 million
Second Power project and an $18 million Sugar Rehabilitation project--as well
as the $30 million program loan.



- 5 -
16.       Bank lending has been developed taking into account the role of
the other principal external lending agencies having programs in Jamaica--
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), the United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The Bank, along with the IMF, the IDB and CDB has assumed a leading role
in establishing a Caribbean Group for Economic Development, intended to
coordinate development assistance to Jamaica and the other countries of the
Caribbean.
17.       In recent months, the Government has given increased attention to
resolving the project implementation difficulties encountered by some of the
Bank-financed projects over the last year (see Annex II). A considerable
part of the difficulty has been caused by the generally unfavorable economic
environment experienced during this period. Further progress in improved
project execution should be seen as the Government's economic program is
implemented and Jamaica's economic managers are able to shift their attention
from short-term problems to longer term development matters.
18.       In line with the Government's priorities and development strategy
Bank project lending will place increasing emphasis on projects to promote
exports, stimulate import substitution, increase employment and raise the
living standards of those in the lowest economic strata. The proposed project
has many of these objectives. The Bank will also continue to be asked to
financed high priority infrastructure and institution development projects.
During the course of the next two years projects are likely to be presented to
the Executive Directors for forestry development, highway maintenance and
urban development.
19.       The Bank has been the leading supplier of official external develop-
ment assistance to Jamaica. IDB lending to Jamaica has been increasing in
recent years and it is likely that it will continue to be a major source of
such assistance. CDB lending to Jamaica has only recently begun and it may
be expected to be a growing source of development assistance in the future.
The Bank's share of external public debt outstanding and disbursed was about
8% and its share of external public debt service was about 6% in 1976. These
percentages are not expected to vary significantly over the next several years.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
20.       For a small developing country of about 2 million people, Jamaica
has a relatively broad-based and sophisticated manufacturing sector which
produces a wide variety of manufactured products. In 1976, the sector's
value added was J$539 million, or about 20% of GDP. Manufacturing has been
the leading sector in value-added terms since 1974, when it passed the dis-
tributive trade sector. In 1976, manufacturing sector employment was 75,000,
or 11% of the employed labor force, and exports of manufactured goods (exclud-
ing sugar) reached J$69 million, or 11% of merchandise exports.



- 6 -
21.       The initial impetus for manufacturing production arose mainly
from the demands of the sugar and bauxite/alumina sectors. Jamaica has
followed a typical pattern of industrial development by concentrating on
import-substitution industries, mainly consumer goods. During the 1960s the
Government granted tax and other fiscal incentives as well as protection to
its industries against those of non-Caribbean origin and manufacturing output
grew by an average annual rate of over 5% between 1969 and 1973. However,
between 1973 and 1977 there has been an average decline of 4% p.a. in real
terms, mainly as a result of shortages in raw materials and intermediate goods
for industry, the general country economic decline and political uncertainties.
22.        Jamaican industry is highly import dependent.  According to Govern-
ment estimates the ratio of imported raw materials to the gross value of out-
put in manufacturing was about 40% in 1976. As a result, Jamaican industry
has been particularly hard hit by the current restrictions on imports. Due
to the present inability to import sufficient quantities of industrial inputs,
capacity utilization in the sector, based on 1.5 shifts per day, is only
about 33%, which contributes to the present high level of unemployment of
24%. As part of its strategy to cope with this problem, the Government in-
tends to maintain at least the current levels of production and employment
in the manufacturing sector. In the longer run, the Government's sector
development strategy has the following major objectives: reduction in import
dependence; generation of additional export earnings; and promotion of small-
scale enterprises (SSEs) and crafts as a means of spreading income and employ-
ment more widely. The proposed project would support these objectives.
23.       A major cause of the high import dependence of the manufacturing
sector has been incentive and trade policies directed at establishing and
subsequently protecting domestic industries. The incentive system permits the
Jamaican manufacturer to import capital and intermediate goods without duty
and encourages the use of capital goods through generous tax write-offs.
Manufacturers are generally protected from foreign competition under existing
incentive laws and often have no domestic competition in the small Jamaican
market. The system has encouraged the development of many so-called "screw-
driver" industries, performing final assembly or processing operations with
low domestic value added. Paradoxically, the policy of import substitution,
through the encouragement and protection of domestic industry, has resulted in
the creation of an import-dependent manufacturing sector that is exacerbating
rather than helping Jamaica's balance of payments problem. In addition, the
capital-intensive manufacturing structure that has been established largely
as a result of the incentives system is inconsistent with the Government's
desire to stimulate employment and the need to expand nontraditional exports.
24.        The current economic program contains two measures that should aid
manufacturing sector development: a realistic exchange rate policy and a
restrictive wages policy. Devaluations of 68% over the last year have had
the effect of reducing the cost of Jamaican manufactured products in world
markets while increasing the price of those imported products brought in under
the special exchange rate by the same percentage. The wages policy, which bars wage
increases in excess of 15% a year over the next two years, has helped keep the cost
of Jamaican products down. This is particularly important since Jamaica



- 7 -
tas a high wage structure as a result of generous wage settlements in the
growing and profitable mining sector during the 1960s and early 1970s, which
Eet wage standards in other sectors.
25.       The Government intends to overhaul in the future its industrial
incentives system, giving greater emphasis to domestic sources of supply
Gnd to the substitution of labor for imported capital goods. In particular,
it plans to modify the relative prices of capital and labor and promote
industries such as agro-industries, which process mostly local raw materials.
In designing its policies, however, the Government is also aware of the limits
to the desired change in the industrial structure imposed by Jamaica's small
size and limited resource base. The measures now being considered include the
establishment of import duties on capital goods, the reduction of depreciation
allowances, and the granting of tax credits and other incentives to employers
hiring additional workers. Such measures, coupled with the recent modifica-
tions in wage and exchange rate policies, should exert a positive influence
on the future development of Jamaica's manufacturing sector.
26.       In pursuit of its policies designed to encourage export-oriented
instead of inefficient, capital-intensive and excessively import-dependent
industries, the Government already has taken a series of actions including:
the establishment of an export trading company; an increase in official
assistance in marketing research and other export-related services; encourage-
ment of international specialization arrangements for the manufacture of
parts; establishment of a state trading company to import raw materials and
intermediate goods in bulk; and identification of viable investment opportuni-
ties in the export field. Although the Government has repeatedly stated its
desire to maintain a "mixed economy," the fact of an expanding public sector,
import restrictions and the general economic difficulties in recent years
have caused uncertainties in the private sector, particularly among mid-
size and larger enterprises. Expansion of private sector investment in
manufacturing, particularly by larger investors, will in part depend on
changes in the foregoing factors and improvement in business confidence.
The Small Scale Enterprise Sector
27.       One of the main problems facing the Government in fostering SSE
development is the lack of reliable data. The 1960 census covering indus-
trial firms of all sizes is the only source of comprehensive information on
the small-scale enterprises. There is a need to collect and compile syste-
matically the data on SSEs to provide a better basis for assisting SSEs in
Jamaica. Under the proposed project, the Government would use its best
efforts to cause its Department of Statistics and JIDC to carry out by
June 30, 1980 a manufacturing sector survey, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, which would provide such data (Section 4.06, Loan
Agreement).
28.       There are currently a number of definitions of "small-scale enter-
prises" in use in Jamaica, most of which are rather imprecise and lump
together SSEs of different characteristics. In order to define the scope
of the project, the Government has grouped the SSE sector into the following
two target groups:



- 8 -
Target Group (A):  Modern small-scale enterprises.  Enterprises
with net fixed assets (excluding land and
buildings) up to US$100,000; and
Target Group (B):  Very small-scale enterprises.  Enterprises
with net fixed assets (excluding land and
buildings) up to US$20,000.
29.       In 1976 Target Groups (A) and (B) together employed about 32,000,
or about 43% of the total work force in manufacturing, and the value added by
these enterprises was estimated at J$215 million, or 40% of manufacturing
value added. In 1976 there were about 550 firms in Target Group (A), employ-
ing 12,000 persons and contributing about 15% (J$81 million) of manufacturing
value added; 71% of the firms in this target group were located in Kingston
and St. Andrew parishes. In the same year there were about 2,000 enterprises
(i.e., firms employing at least one worker besides the owner) and about 10,000
self-employed businessmen in Target Group (B).
30.       While SSEs face the same problems as the manufacturing sectors in
general, these problems are often more pressing for the smaller firms. The
major ones include: (i) lack of long-term funds and working capital;
(ii) limited capacity to convert investment ideas into bankable projects;
(iii) poor financial management; (iv) lack of raw materials; and (v) limited
expertise in marketing products overseas. The proposed project is aimed at
alleviating some of these problems.
The Financial System
31.       The Jamaican financial system is relatively well developed.  The
financial institutions involved in SSE lending include the Bank of Jamaica
(BOJ)--the Central Bank--nine commercial banks, the Small Business Loan
Board (SBLB), the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB) and the Development
Venture Capital Financing Ltd. (DVCF), a subsidiary of JDB. JDB and, until
recently, SBLB have been the main sources of long-term funds for SSEs while
the commercial banks have limited themselves to providing working capital
and some medium-term funds for equipment and commercial vehicles, based on
the pledge of collateral.
32.       With its 160 branches the commercial banking system in Jamaica
represents the most important institutional mechanism for mobilizing and
allocating resources in Jamaica. As of September 30, 1977, total commercial
banking assets amounted to J$1.1 billion, or about two-thirds of the entire
assets of the financial system in Jamaica. In 1976 loans to the manufactur-
ing sector amounted to 17.5% of their loan portfolio. Commercial banks,
which have been providing the bulk of short- and medium-term credit to SSEs,
are in an advantageous position in lending to SSEs in Target Group (A). Under
the proposed project, Bank funds would be channelled to modern SSEs through
the commercial banking system.
33.       JDB, the Government-owned development bank, has dealt mainly with
modern small-scale enterprises (target group(A)) using two credit lines
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Overall, JDB has not been



- 9 -
very successful in lending to SSEs. In addition, it is facing financial and
institutional problems which affect its operational efficiency. In the past,
JDB passed on to DVCF riskier small projects which did not meet JDB's lend-
ing criteria. Consequently, DVCF was decapitalized. DVCF has been recapita-
lized and restructured in connection with a US$1.9 million component for lend-
ing to small industries that will link industrial development with the low
cost housing financed by the Bank's Sites and Services project (Loan 1003-JM).
DVCF now has adequate resources to carry out its operations over the next
three years. Commitments for lending to industry under the Sites and Services
project have only recently begun and it is too early to evaluate the success
of this program.
34.       SBLB was at one time the major intermediary financing Target Group
(B). It received substantial support from the Government, including about J$7
million in grants, but it was neither a sound nor efficiently managed insti-
tution, partly because it was subject to political interference. Its accounts
have not been audited since 1974 and, as of May 1976, about 50% of its port-
folio was affected by arrears. Given SBLB's poor record, the Government
decided in July 1977 to liquidate SBLB, and established the Small Enterprise
Development Corporation (SEDCO), to provide financial and technical assistance
to enterprises in Target Group (B).
Technical Assistance
35.       There are a variety of institutions involved in providing technical
assistance to industry in Jamaica. Enterprises in Target Group (A) are
mainly served by the Jamaican Industrial Development Corporation (JIDC), and
the Jamaica National Export Corporation (JNEC). Under the proposed project
JIDC will set up a technical assistance unit to assist SSEs in Target Group
(A) (see paras. 57-58). The enterprises in Target Group (B) have been serviced
on a limited scale mainly by the Small Industries Development Division (SIDD)
of JIDC, and the Small Business Development Centre (SBDC). However, since
SIDD was not an effective institution the Government has decided to abolish it
and to transfer its functions to SEDCO.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first integrated SSE
development project in Jamaica, designed to boost manufacturing production and
address the problem of urban unemployment. It consists of: (i) financing of
modern small-scale enterprises through the commercial banking system, with the
Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) serving as the apex institution (Subprogram I); (ii)
financing of very small-scale enterprises through SEDCO, a new specialized
small industry institution (Subprogram II); and (iii) provision of technical
assistance to SSEs.
37.       The major objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) foster the
development of economically viable small-scale industries by providing much
needed foreign exchange to SSEs to import capital and intermediate goods as
well as permanent working capital in the form of essential raw materials;
(ii) encourage the commercial banking system to increase its medium- and



- 10 -
long-term lending to SSEs;  (iii) assist the Government in building SEDCO into
a viable development finance institution; and (iv) provide a framework for a
dialogue with the Government on industrial policies.
Costs and Financing Plan
38.       Project costs are estimated at US$11.65 million, of which 60% would
be in foreign exchange. The credit component of the project is about US$10.9
million, of which US$6.9 million is for financing modern SSEs and US$4.0
million for lending through SEDCO. The balance of US$750,000 is for technical
assistance programs. The proposed US$7 million loan would cover 100X of the
estimated foreign exchange costs as follows: US$6.5 million for credit
(US$4.5 million for modern SSEs and US$2 million for SEDCO); and US$500,000
for technical assistance. The balance would be financed by the intermediaries
(19%), enterprises (19%), and GOJ (2%).
Subprogram I: Modern Small-Scale Enterprises
39.       Under Subprogram I of the proposed project, US$4.5 million of the
proposed loan would be onlent by the Government to BOJ to establish a redis-
counting facility, which would be administered by the Premier Investment
Corporation (PIC), a subsidiary of BOJ. The facility would be available to
the participating commercial banks which could rediscount up to 100% of loans
to qualified SSEs, subject to a ceiling of 65% of total subproject costs and a
maximum subloan size of US$100,000. With its 160 branches throughout the
island, the commercial banking network possesses the largest pool of lending
expertise in Jamaica and has good potential for lending to modern small-scale
enterprises. At present, most commercial banks lend to SSEs for short-term
needs on a fully secured basis and their staffs have limited experience in
project appraisal. Therefore it would be necessary to build up project lending
capacity in the banks. Thus far, four commercial banks (two Government-owned
and two foreign controlled) have indicated that they are prepared to create a
SSE lending unit in their headquarters as a part of the Bank-financed project
once the proposed project is under way. BOJ, in consultation with the Bank
would accredit any creditworthy bank willing to build up such a unit. Prior to
disbursements under this subprogram, BOJ would accredit at least one commercial
bank (Para. 2(iv), Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). Although it is the subsidiary
of the Government's development bank dealing with SSEs, and not a commercial
bank, DVCF may be included as a participating bank under Subprogram I at some
future date, if it is successful in financing SSEs under the urban project
component of the Bank's Sites and Services project and if it needs additional
resources. The proposed arrangements are designed to provide the basis for
a self-sustaining financing intermediation system for the SSE sector.
40.       The rediscounting facility administered by PIC would be supplemented
by a credit guarantee scheme (the Small Businessmen's Financing Scheme-SBFS),
which has been in operation since 1975. The scheme guarantees commercial banks
against loss on loans to small business of up to 50% of the amount loaned.
The guarantees would be provided for a one-time fee of 2% to be paid by the
sub-borrowers. The SBFS would be a useful additional incentive to commercial
banks making subloans under Subprogram I. The BOJ would increase the capitali-
zation of PIC by at least J$400,000 over a two-year period to assure that the



- 11 -
scheme was sufficiently capitalized to provide guarantees under Subprogram I
(Section 2.10(a), Project Agreement).
41.       PIC, which would be responsible for implementing Subprogram I, is
presently administering the SBFS. In addition to rediscounting commercial
bank subloans to qualified modern SSEs, PIC's role would also include:
(i) administering an expanded SBFS; (ii) coordinating and monitoring the
performance of the participating banks; and (iii) preparing and furnishing
to the Bank by December 31, 1978, with the help of outside consultants, a
project appraisal manual and procedures acceptable to the Bank (Section 2.11 (a),
Project Agreement). To perform these functions, BOJ has already appointed
a project manager for PIC and is seeking an advisor for PIC with broad experi-
ence in lending to SSEs to assist in project implementation. In addition,
US$250,000 would be allocated to PIC for hiring consultants to prepare manuals,
carry out specific studies relevant to the SSE sector, and organize training
programs for the commercial banks' loan officers through the Jamaica Institute
of Bankers (JIB) (Section 2.12, Project Agreement). The appointment of the
advisor would be a condition of disbursement for Subprogram I (Para. 2(iv),
Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
42.       Under Subprogram I projects would be identified either by entre-
preneurs approaching the commercial banks or through promotion in certain
priority sectors. In this connection, the Jamaican Industrial Development
Corporation, a Government entity engaged in industrial promotion, would
establish a project promotion unit in its Productivity and Industrial Services
Division staffed with four persons, two of whom will be employed by December 31,
1978, and the remaining two by June 30, 1979 (Section 2.14, Loan Agreement).
The cost of the unit over three years is estimated at US$300,000, of which the
Bank would finance US$50,000 for an advisor in project promotion and appraisal.
The balance would be financed by GOJ (Section 4.02, Project Agreement). The
appointment of the advisor would be a condition of disbursement for Subprogram I
(Para. 2(iv), Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
43.       Entrepreneurs with adequately prepared projects would deal only
with the commercial banks, while those project proposals needing additional
assistance would be aided by JIDC. JIDC's involvement would range from a
cursory review (for relatively well-prepared projects) to undertaking finan-
cial projections, identifying potential markets, referring for financing and
other consulting assistance and recommending the use of appropriate tech-
nology. Subsequently, the investment proposal would be presented to the
commercial bank in question for its evaluation. Once the commercial bank
approved the loan, it would be referred to PIC for rediscounting.
44.       A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be established consist-
ing of the representatives of PIC, JIDC, the Jamaica Export Trading Company
(JETCO), the Trade Administrator (the Government agency granting import
licenses), the Ministry of Industry, and participating commercial banks.
PCC would be chaired by PIC and would be responsible for supervising the
implementation of the Subprogram I portion of the project. Also, PCC would
make recommendations to the Trade Administrator for import licenses to be



- 12 -
granted to sub-borrowers, so as to permit sub-borrowers to import goods
financed by the project and goods necessary to maintain levels of production
attained as a result of financing under the project (Section 4.03, Loan
Agreement). BOJ would appoint the PCC, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, before loan funds could be disbursed under Subprogram I
(Para. 2(iv), Schedule 1, Loan Agreement).
Subprogram II: Very Small Scale Enterprises
45.       The proposed loan would include US$2.0 million for financing very
small SSEs through SEDCO. In November 1977, in close consultation with the
Bank, GOJ established SEDCO as a wholly-owned government company to perform
credit and technical assistance functions formerly assigned to the now defunct
SBLB and Small Industry Development Division (SIDD) of JIDC.
46.       SEDCO's main objectives are to provide short-, medium- and long-
term loans and technical assistance to viable SSEs with net fixed assets
below US$20,000. The maximum size of loans to be made by SEDCO will be
J$40,000 and it will not normally finance more than 75% of project costs of
an enterprise. SEDCO will focus on economically viable industries which are
based on local raw materials, are labor intensive and have potential for
exports. Initially, it will concentrate on the more traditional development
banking functions (providing loan and technical assistance) but later it
will undertake other activities such as promoting industrial estates and
providing marketing and purchasing assistance to support the development of
SSEs. SEDCO is expected to operate as an autonomous institution and be
financially self-supporting for its credit operations, while the technical
assistance costs would be funded by GOJ from annual budgetary allocations.
47.       SEDCO has a board of 14 directors headed by a chairman appointed
by the Minister of Industry and Commerce. The current chairman is an active
private businessman. SEDCO's board adequately represents private sector
organizations, Government-owned financial institutions and the ministries
concerned. SEDCO's managing director sits on the board which is expected to
play a vital advisory role, leaving day-to-day business to the management.
The Government is aware that the operations of SBLB and SIDD were adversely
affected when those organizations became subject to political pressure, and
therefore it has given assurance that SEDCO would be allowed to conduct its
business in a manner which will ensure financial self-sufficiency and viability
and to employ and retain its staff on a merit basis (Section 4.04, Loan
Agreement).
48.       SEDCO's managing director has both commercial banking experience
and good knowledge of the public sector. SEDCO will have three divisions--
technical services, finance, and administration. The chief of the finance
division will also be the deputy managing director. SEDCO has recruited 12
staff members including two division chiefs (technical services and administ-
ration). Although SEDCO's management is quite capable, it would need to be
assisted at least during the first two years by a financial advisor with broad
experience in development banking and an investment advisor with a good
knowledge of project appraisal. Under the proposed project US$150,000 has



- 13 -
been allocated for this purpose. The appointment of these advisors would be a
condition of disbursement of funds under Subprogram II (Para. 2(v), Schedule 1,
Loan Agreement) and Section 2.09, Project Agreement). SEDCO has developed
a comprehensive policy statement which is satisfactory.
49.       Due to limited initial appraisal capacity and start-up delays,
SEDCO's operations are likely to be modest in 1978. However, SEDCO's activi-
ties will increase in subsequent years, as SEDCO's capacity grows and the
country recovers from the current economic recession. Also, the construction
sector is expected to get a boost from the National Housing Trust, which is
planning to provide a large amount of funds for housing construction. Over
the next four years SEDCO would need J$15.5 million (J$14.5 million for new
loans and J$1 million to cover any initial losses and maintain minimum
liquidity). The US$2 million to be provided to SEDCO under the proposed
loan would cover a significant portion of its foreign exchange requirements.
The remaining financial needs would come from J$13 million in equity
contributions. A portion of this requirement would be met by transferring
the assets of SBLB to SEDCO by August 31, 1978. The assets would be held
in a special fund. The GOJ would supply the necessary additional capital
to equal J$13 million to SEDCO over four years, but the GOJ's obligation to
make such equity contribution would be reduced by the net cash flow generated
by the SBLB assets held in the special fund (Section 4.05, Loan Agreement).
The planned capitalization is adequate to meet SEDCO's projected needs.
50.       SEDCO would need a spread of about 9% to be financially viable.
Such a spread would be obtained if SEDCO charged 11% interest on its subloan
and the Government equity contribution of J$13 million were made, since the
weighted cost of funds to SEDCO, assuming the cost of equity is zero would
then be 2%. It would generate a small surplus by the end of the third year
after incurring losses of about J$500,000 during the first two years, due
mainly to high start-up costs.  However, the administrative expenses as a
percentage of the average total assets are projected to decline to 4.6%
in 1983.  Provisions for losses as percentages of the year-end portfolio
would increase to about 4.0% in 1983, which is reasonable considering the
expected improvement in SEDCO's appraisal capacity and close supervision of
its portfolio. SEDCO's debt/equity ratio will remain below 0.5:1 through
the projection period.
Loan Terms
51.       The proposed loan of US$7 million will be made to GOJ with a fixed
maturity of 17 years including four years of grace to be passed on to PIC and
SEDCO in Jamaican currency equivalent, for the same period and at the same
interest rate as the Bank loan, with the GOJ bearing the exchange risk. The
Government will make no charge to SEDCO's borrowers for bearing the exchange
risk, but will charge the commercial bank borrowers a 1% per annum fee for
this service. As the number of subloans to be financed under the scheme is
expected to be large and the average subloan terms are likely to be about five
years, including two years of grace, there would be substantial generation of
roll-over funds, which would be used for additional lending. Use of rollover
funds for lending to the same target groups is justified by the expected need
of SSEs for long-term resources.



- 14 -
Sub-project Financing
52.       The Bank funds would be used to finance both fixed assets and
permanent working capital in line with the Bank's SSE sector policy. Financing
of permanent working capital, which is expected to account for more than 50%
of total lending, would be of major assistance in terms of both increasing
production and creating new jobs at relatively low marginal costs. Both
PIC and SEDCO would ensure that Bank funds are used to finance only financially
and economically viable projects. The list of subsectors eligible for financ-
ing will be garments, food processing, woodwork, footwear, light metals,
building materials, toys, construction and crafts. The eligibility of these
and other sectors to receive financing under the loan would be reviewed from
time to time and the parties to the Agreements could agree to changes in the
list of eligible items (Section 2.01(b), Project Agreement).
53.       Under Subprogram I the maximum subloan size would be US$100,000.
The first two subloans from each of the participating intermediaries would be
submitted to the Bank for approval. The free limit under Subprogram I would
be loans under $80,000 provided the total of subloans does not exceed $2.25
million (Section 2.02(b), Loan Agreement). Simplified internal economic rate
of return calculations (in line with the "Guidelines for Calculation for
Economic Rates of Return on DFC Subprojects") would be carried out by PIC for
all projects above the free limit. Projects below the free limit would have
to (i) have internal financial rates of return calculated to demonstrate their
financially viability; (ii) be labor intensive; and (iii) produce goods with
ex-factory prices that are reasonable compared with c.i.f. prices for comparable
goods. In cases where c.i.f. prices are 20% below ex-factory prices, internal
economic rates of return would be calculated by PIC to justify subloan financ-
ing. Under Subprogram II the maximum loan size would be US$20,000. The Bank
would review the first ten subprojects and thereafter carry out ex-post reviews
(Section 2.02(b), Loan Agreement). SEDCO, with the assistance of a consultant,
has prepared simplified written guidelines for evaluating projects. The
appraisal capacity of both SEDCO and PIC would be built up by qualified
advisors and close monitoring by the Bank through the process of subproject
review and supervision.
54.       The interest rate to sub-borrowers under Subprogram I would initially
be equal to the weighted average commercial rate, a rate determined by market
forces and which is currently 13.5%. The rate would be adjusted in subsequent
quarters, if the average weighted average commercial rate for the preceding
three months were 0.25% higher than the sublending rate in the preceding
quarter. The new sublending rate would then be set at the average weighted
average commercial rate for the preceding three months, as long as that rate
was not below 13.5% (Section 2.03(b), Project Agreement). PIC would rediscount
commercial bank loans at a rate which will give the commercial banks a spread
of 4.5%. The spread, when combined with the reduction of the risk of the
commercial banks through the guarantees available to them under the Small
Business Financing Scheme, should be adequate incentive to attract commercial
bank participation in the program. The interest rate to sub-borrowers under
Subprogram II would be a minimum 11% and not below the prime commercial rate.
Interest rates on any subloan made under Subprograms I and II will remain
constant for the life of the subloan (Section 2.03(c), Project Agreement).



- 15 -
The interest rates charged to sub-borrowers under both subprograms would
be reviewed annually during the commitment period to assess their adequacy.
Loan funds would not be used to finance new commitments if the Bank and the
Borrower do not agree on subloan interest rates to be charged during the
subsequent year (Section 2.03(b), Project Agreement and Section 3.03, Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
55.       The goods and services under the project would be procured by SSEs
from local commercial channels. PIC and SEDCO would ensure that (i) when-
ever feasible, borrowers obtain at least two price quotations from suppliers;
(ii) each subproject appraisal would assess procurement policies; and
(iii) disbursements by PIC and SEDCO would be made directly to the suppliers.
Under both lending components the Bank would disburse 100% of c.i.f. prices of
imported goods whenever full documentation is available, and 50% of (i) the
cost of locally procured goods containing imported components and (ii) con-
struction costs. Disbursements for local expenditures will be made against
statements of expenditures, with the supporting documentation being retained
by PIC and SEDCO for inspection by the Bank. The Bank would disburse 100% of
foreign expenditures for technical assistance costs. The above disbursement
formula would result in Bank financing of 100% of direct and indirect foreign
costs, or 60% of the project costs.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The proposed project would be the first integrated small-scale
enterprises development project in Jamaica, designed to increase employment
in the urban areas and to boost manufacturing production, particularly for
exports. Given the high unemployment rate in Jamaica, the economic and
social benefits of this project would be substantial. It is expected that
about 1,360 new jobs at an investment cost per job of US$8,000 would be
created directly by increasing the capacity utilization of existing
enterprises. Backward and forward linkages would create a significant
number of additional indirect jobs.
57.       The project would have major benefits in terms of institution
building and reform. The commercial banking system has the capacity to
mobilize savings from small investors and, if the project is successful, could
expand lending to SSEs with their own funds in the future. The proposed
project should also improve the Bank's knowledge of the SSE sector in Jamaica
and would enable it to enter into a more meaningful dialogue on industrial
policies.
58.       Given the present uncertain investment climate in Jamaica, and the
untested institutional arrangements, the project is riskier than the Bank's
more traditional DFC lending. In particular, SEDCO is a young institution
and there will be a prolonged learning period to perform the difficult task
of lending to very small-scale enterprises. However, servicing the target
group of SEDCO is one of the main objectives of the proposed loan. Also,
the risk would be minimized with the proposed technical assistance program



- 16 -
for SEDCO. Moreover, the Bank would monitor SEDCO closely to ensure that
SEDCO operates as an independent institution with sound financial policies.
On balance, the expected benefits of the proposed project would justify the
potential risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, and the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank, the BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The following actions must take place prior to disbursements
under Subprogram I: (a) BOJ will accredit at least one financial inter-
mediary acceptable to the Bank for participation in the program; (b) PIC and
JIDC will have each appointed suitably qualified advisors; and (c) BOJ will
appoint a Project Coordination Committee under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank (Para. 2(iv), Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). Prior to disbursement
under Subprogram II, SEDCO will appoint an advisor on general management and a
financial investment advisor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Para. 2(v), Schedule 1, Loan Agreement). Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 22, 1978



- 17 -                                            ANNEX I
JAMAICA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND   AREA   (THOU   KM2)-- - -- - - - - - - - - - - -                 - - - - - - - - -
LANO----------- ARE    HJAMAICA                                                        REFERENCE COUNTRIES 11970)
TOTAL        11.0                                       MOST RECENT          TRINIDAD
AGRIC.        4.8                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          AND TOBAGO      CYPRUS          ISRAEL****
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     370.0 *   670.0 *  1070.0*              1260.0 *    99O.0 *   2270.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPU-PTION (MID-YR, MILLION)             1.6        1.9        2.1                1.0          0.6         3.0
PER SOUARE KM.                      145.0      173.0      191.0               196.0        68.0       143.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       327.0      392.0      438.0               690.0       119.o       230.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, Av)          37.0       39.5      32.2                32.5        24.2        25.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           10.7        8.6       7.1                 7.1         7.4         6.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        51.0       32.2       26.3                34.4        29.4        22.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       64.6       67.8       69.5                66.1        70.2        70.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4        2.7       2.4                 2.0         1.5         1.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%                1/*a,** ~ A                                1A          oc            
TOTAL                                  1 .4**     1.4**     1 8**               2.1**       1o**        3.4
URBAN                                             6 6.2       . .               3.0         1.9         3.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           23.4       37.1         ..               24.1        39.1        82.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.2       45.9       42.1                41.2        31.8        33.3 -
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.5       50.4       51.2                55.1        60.6        60.2/b
85 YEARS AND OVER                      4.3       3.7        6.7                 3.7         7.6         6.5/b
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        1.0        1.0                0.8         0.7         0.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2        1.7        1.1/a              1.3          0.9/a      1.2/bc
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .       49.8      147.6                25.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                         ..         .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           860.o*** 750.0*** 940.0***/b             350.0/a    265.0       iooo.o/b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          36.0      31.1/a    26.9/b,c             22.0        36.0         8.6/b
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)                      17        24.3/d*             12.5          1.1        3.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-           ,0/2Y
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             3o.2'  ..              ..                  *.        12.1/b      13.4/4d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             61.2 /a      ..        ..                  ..        39.1/b      38.6 /d
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              2.2/        ..        ..                  ..         7.9/b       7.85d
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              8.2 -       ..        ..                  .. a6196-             20.5/d
/a/b                                                             /
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
x OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            74.6 /b                      ..         ..              ..
x OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           1.6/b       *          *.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..    2630.0    3520.0               2330.0      1290.0       410.0/e
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         1990.0 /c  1710.0     740.0               400.0/b    610. 0 /C    200.0 /e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            250.0 /d  240.0       260.0              230.0 -    190.0 -    170.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          91.0      103.0     118.0                97.0       116.0       116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              56.0       56.0        68.9               64.0        78.0        92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         20.0 /b    29.0 /b       ..               34.0/c      33.0/d      49.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              6.5        4.2        4.6                1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        82.0      85.0      111.0               112.0        82.0 /_    128.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      43.0       59.0       54.0               36.0        53.0 /e      32.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       13.0      13.0                15.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       9.0        5.5        4.0                6.0 /d     12.4 /e     45.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                   8. 2.0              86.0 /e            88.0         85.0        84.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.6         ..         ..                 1.7/e        .-         1-5/f
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                       79.0       78.0 /c                       54.0 /f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    .        27.0         * *              66.O/j         . .       94.0 /f
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        58.0 /f
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          88.0          . .    320.0               276.0       264.0       223.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           20.0       39.0       45.0                73.0        88.0        51.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           312.0      825.0    1149.0               1172.0       987.0      2350.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.9        4.6        4.3                 5.9         2.7        11.6
SEE    NOTES- AND-- E--- ----- _ -- _-- -- - O  _-R-E  S--_--                     _ ---_- - - -----    ----- --- -- ------E R
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



Dnios  thoott nted  d ta fo  1960 rafar to any yearhaon 1959 end 1961, fee 1970 bat~nm   1999 nod 1971, and for Mont tenan -t  atimata between
197'3 sd19 76.
-CNl per -cpita data era base.d an the Wrld B.nk Atlas methodology (1974-76 beat.).
noDo  oeIgratiO   popolstinn growth ret. Is lower then the eara of                  I...!tnrse...
naDat  base.d o   fficial defintrin which ic a   those ailli.g  to each bar nat etvlyenking employmet.
Israel baa beet .e leotnd ae en   bJctive o-trey because of ite siilarity In popletto   sine and dependence on foreign  trade.
JAKAICA            ~1960    /a  1959;    lb  1961-62;    IE  1963;    /d  1962.
i970    Ia  including onenplIyad;         /b  1964-66;      Ic  maids only.
MOST RECENT iST IMATE:      I   Ratio of  ppltinodsr 15 and 65 and over to rors1 lahar foroe;    /k  October 1977;
17.  -aldngueployed;    Id  Ay.nrag  April-October 1977;    1.  1972.
.TRINIDAD AND 70O0AG0     1970    /5  Labor for.. age 15-64 yeas;           /   Inlding nidiv-s;    Ic  i964-66b;             /Id  Goa-st na.toteod end sided
nooca  1ny;    /I  Total, urban and Irura;        /I   Ieide only;    /I  1966.
copR-oS                   1970    Ia  Ratio of population undsr 15and A5 end over 10 tonal labor force;    lb  1966, urhen;    I                     Inluding a..aInreor 
nurse;    IA  1964-66;    Ia   cciding Turisb schools.
IDRAiL                    1970    /I  Due to tam,gretiuo PoPuleti te  goth rint Is higher than tbs ratm  of natora1 Locre.e;l..n.u                            date -toistlgt
ocIstin  tertrsuder  IcoPation by Israeli militery foroes nince Jun  1967'    /0  Ratio of popoletion under
15 and AN and wear to tooel.Ibor force;    IA  Jewish ege earer   (urban);    /I  iRgieier-d, not all prectricio
to th _cutry;        It1966.
R1O, April 10, 1978
DUpmlTrIfe OF SOCIAL fl!DICACTOS
Lend Are  iibuh Ie1                                                                           peculat!ion cr Iuosine nrson  '-WPopisr     divided by nsber of prcI-iio,
garc.. os  rcen  st easIf egri-1iur1 ree  -.as  temporarily or pem-autir                         -pronl ctb traiinn  oreprice
neIty icr  _ors  oeore. rker h kttcbco gardens or to  Ie. fallow.                         Poculaion ar boecitalhd-Pouainiie  by n,.er If hoepita1 beds
cnP ar  eolt  701)    Gol re  capitses inst   a  cueenaearat pIce,     rhabilitation  -star; anloesaraig bh-. end seelen efor
oelculatsd by e      oorla mtd  5World Sank urles (1973-75 basis);                           cuetodiel ead pre-ttacer.,
1960; 1970 cod 197  date..'                                                                Prcitaulyoosoiwiof  Csurmt) -Coptred firo   nergy
aquials   of  at fod spplie  ava ileble  tn coutry per capies par day;
Poeieton  nd  ite   stei.isi                                                               avilebla supplies campries d-wetJi production, import  las..           rs.  acd
.. Iabo  nCid-onatmilion           -of July first:  if not  -vilebla ,eera                     cbangae In stok; ocr coppli teasolude eninej feed, seeds, qunttis  cd
of ro  e-d-ya-  1elotn; 60b, 1970 ead 1975 dete.                                             to food proveeing ond losess In dietribution; rqimst   aes  ia
by FAO base.d on phyeiologiceI uneds tr ---I  etlic Ied bealtb coned-
roouletio  dnIty - rt oaer h  - Midy-ya  PoPulaftio  Per aquar  kil-ea                          ering eniroaetlt.1       eaue,body asigia, age and sen distribution   of
7100 bottersa) of total ares.                                        ~~~population, end allowing 101 foe asta at hougahold level.
P-nuietio  d-a tt-a,       sur  Ion       -- aui. lad - Conpu-d as above for                  Per;canita  ...si a1f noanfrm          edy)-Protein conen  of par c-rca
stricultural lend only.                                              ve~~~tsupyIof fo   e   a;st supplyt offod Is defined cc shov; requir-
enafar allIcoutries sa-bIiabd by EUSDA fEonoi Researob Saroioa
vital  -eseitics                                                                                provide for e  inaselwno  of 60 grs of total protein pe  dy, ard
Crude birth rate ear  hbeosad.avru   - -Ina  liv  birtba per tihousod of20 gr-m  of enim-l awl pulse proae, of abi,b 10 o-  ahouldeaia
aid-ear  opuatio; ta-yer ertasoicaverges  ndig to1961end19170,             Protin; theas  -edarda are lasr then  hb.. of 75 grs  of e.Cce  pr-ist
and Elts-ypner. everge eno   O   975 ta ea  reat esiae2n   3 fr-a  of coim-  protein as en averag  for the norld, proposd by foe
Erode dat rar  ea  thuad  ae          1s-  nc   deathe pee tbhued of mid-yser                   In the Thlird World Pond Survy.1
popieson  te-yer  recetic  vre         adIna in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-_               Prrct   rtt  swci  frea_nia sod                  a-Poenspl   ffo
yea   vcl       nig  n17   o   a  rcn   siae                                                   ervdfa   nml  end .poIsas in aren  Par day.
inatmriyrte i/thou) - Annuel death  of ieceoder on  year of ae                     Deah  at /t hu  asa14    -nol deaths Per thocasod in age group 1-4
par thousand livo bireb.ae  to childre  In this sE grou; -eggesand asa.                                                                                    nictro
Life sna  eo   t berth (,re) -  varege nasehr of yara of life rmInio.g at                       mabditt-etIf
bOmb; __avlly fi__e-yr eereges ending In 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develp-
Cros  -eodution rin-   oeag   csro  livn deughterse                       illn41  baar        udaederlmn   ai      cmry1 etbol - fErolmem   of el  ge  spr
erher cana  reproduction Pero   if aim_nperi-oa  preest ag-pcfccne   fpiaysho-g    ool                                                 ;includes rhlldron aged b-Il ynare
fertiliry rates; usually fiv-y-e  a-a.e ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                         boo  djosted far- different le-grhe of Prinry adonesie; far cenirss  it
for deneicatog cmatis                                                                          nvre   dctmi, enoletmy enced LO0% aJ-. ss pupa . are he1
onltocr_nd  resIt)-toe    CimPoad .-Iua  growth ret-  of nid-year                         on char  ohs official  obho1 age'
poueinfac 1950-60, 1960-7i ed1970 75.                                                 Id I-en mt     als  ret-ere= EX schol-   Eb-.a   s  h ; secodar
Po...letin aronih recs (%l -arba    -Cputad Ilkhe groth rstn of rte.l                            d_eetmonreqirsaletfan                 reoaprodrms7meoti;
popolani_n; different dafinition   of urban  -r  may affeot co areility Ig                    pofdognre,rc tio     ortace  tranin    pi-aryrao    orppl
date emog cprers.                                                                              fid.o1   er   feg;cropner  courses_ em  g                          farll  a pude.
Debsoonuet    '   f !itel) - Rfato of  rban to  I total popotion; defferen                    Yearsf 12oboo7liowr frvieiiseed asen  leell-                     .late  _eadedo
dondeeodoc  raio- Rti  o  pouato  uodr  15any A  edp        ove  toW -those             deprtmoteof  ecodey   bsutira
cb  lbo   ore  rag  gou   i  N-d  Pera.                                                                                           1-t-
taldeenve-cd- oy              eeleie  thtool If Cuoeivenmedf  cetr                          iouhioo        I      t        h:   rI7 h.    .,              I.-       ,y
detolnno-sre(,o  arAdoco    Prsnasoosronsso                                                 cotur ts end        %)ecu ied -pate.dO.(l  II.  - -f
ctild-hearing  ag  (1-44 veer) ab ofne b-irc-control               6 Anv dsa t   all serrie   Occni       t dellng  ndohlt p,lead wate  C) - Ocropid cocerioe.           elg
tor; te  .... unmloe  but"(  seldngf       uenre  atudics,etcf - id               f tL.olbtir...;rurlte arose.p-
Ih  aious coctoaris are           -h rot cnp-rtb-I.dOur-  dol dne  canoeci.d toeetrct Ii-Cnp,da  aoefo   ua
LbrtotinaialreC)-aicitur_ Xabr  ore  tofam4g,toeary                                         deling  onlyt.            tP-        -I      -- ,.dIIIi-1-11
itocig ad  iahve  a                                                                      Iecotgeaftta  lbr  ore
Ormerloynd (7. of labor forca) - Unemployed aredl usue liptdeftved.en.persons.rhopCdnf-motton
areabl  en  nilin  totak  a ob,outof   jo  one gvenday  realod ot    adl reaivre  eartho  eatf-Oiltypa c  reeirre  ur  adi  bradtet
of    jo, eA  ee ingwer  fre  parifid   emo   peiodno  eanedrg  neto  eneal  ubic  er  hooen  ofpoplaton  solude uliensd rcecer
aurvey, c"sul                ..r uneplomen    lOuetet1Ib,f-.                     r,           d .         -I.n to
UI-Pl,y.d (%  f J.b.r f-rt.)   ft-pl~asanee car  (er doornn)..P.s.nI'                                               cre inpres   otaCcar-setin
Income  isre1ihotblIi - .tk Per bocae o   p  frr    on    bt  lo eJbenbkid)                     es  then night persona;.  -P -nloe bAll     e tearps aImiiary:d
reckrs  by  r  ichsp % richstl 0%  poaneect 20%, anId roomer40 o.fibt n-.                     veicles.
hoide.                                                            flentriciry (kwh/yr~~~~~~~.:l  eada)-ana   osmeono   nunil    isr
rHealt ad benrnhy.                                                                             vetremar20ed Ero2s,..   --.   4%  f  -   -dh,ea5tir p loducio  -b. use imports afcod rit
Poenletbon per ebysictan  - poruletcon dicided by                                                  AI.1  -.- t- IfrtofItpracticing 
phyatb-ien  qaIf Ied  f.rowah ndcl  cho  at on. aver           byp levl.h-1%1-riy1   i-I    - P                                                                       .



- 19 -
ANNEX i
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1974 prices)
US$ Mln.        %                                  1972-74            1974-76
GNP at Market Prices            2881          100.0                                  -2.5              -2.7
Gross Domestic Investment         542          18.8                                  -4.8             -17.5
Gross National Saving             220           7.7                                  -4.7             -35.0
Current Account Balance         -303           10.3
Exports of Goods, NFS             864          29.4                                   3.4             -16.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           1077           36.6                                   3.2             -15.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Total Emoloved                     V. A. Per Worker
US$-Mln. % in. __                              %                     Ts $
Agricul-ture                    249.7       8.4                    0.244    35.6                     1023.4       23.5
Mining                          260.7       8.7                    0.008      1.2                   32587.5      747.6
Manufacturing                   558.9      18.7                    0.075    10.9                     7452.0      171.0
OtMier                         1920.8      64.2                    0.359    52.3                     5350.4      122.7
Total/Average          2990.1    100.0                     0.686   100.0                     4358.7      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE   (Central Government, 1976/77)
J$ million    % of GDP
Current Receipts                   652.8          23.6
Current Expenditure                758.0          27.4
Budgetary Savings                 -105.2          -3.8
Capital Revenue                      1.6           0.1
Capital Expenditure                406.9          14.7
Uverall Deficit                   -510.5         -18.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972         1974         1976
(Million J$ outstanding end neriod)
Money and Quasi Money                       565.6        841.6        943.3
Bank credit to Public Sector                101.4        169.2        540.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector               433.7        758.9        982.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
;--ay and Quasi Money as % of GDP            38.6         37.4         34.1
General Price Index (Jan. 1975=100)a/        60.7         90.8        117.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                           9.4         27.1         10.3
Bank credit to Public Sector                 47.8         18.0        110.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                30.2         14.7          4.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ Annual Average.
not available
not applicable



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TRADE PADYHETS AND CAPITAL FLIWS
BAIANCE_OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1972     1974      1976                                                 US $_Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           534       899      864
Imports of Goods, NFS           626      1012     1077
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      -92      -113     -213                Bauxite                            130       17.8
Interest Payments (net)         -12       -33      -54                Alumina                            370       50.6
Workers' Remittances              -        30        39               Sugar                                99      13.5
Other Factor Payments (net)   -105        -74      -94                Bananas                             14        1.9
Net Transfers                     23       23        19               All other comodities                118      16.2
Balance on Current Account    -187       -167     -303                      Total                         731     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        18        -3       -5              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 49       203      205                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization               1.           .2       51
Subtotal                      31       171      154                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              865.0
Capital Grants                                                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                500-0
Other Capital (net)                                                   Total outstanding & Disbursed             1365.0
Other items n.e.i.             .1          59     -114
Increase in Reserves (+)         47      -t-60    -268              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977a/
Gross Reserves (end year)       178      246        41
Net Reserves   (end year)       113      144      -204                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             15.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               12.0
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed              27.0
Imports                        55      195       203
of which:  Petroleum
Exports                         0         0        0
of which:  Petroleum         ..        ..       ..                      IBRD/IDA LENDING
March 31, 1978        (Million US $);
RATE OF EXCHANGE                               As of May 9, 1978 c/                                        IBRD    I'A
Through-  1977                    "Basic" rate          "Special" rate   Outstanding & Disbursed         69.9      -
US $ 1.00    J$ 0.909          US$ 1.00 =  J$1.05   US$1.00 = J$1.35    Undisbursed b/                   98.1      -
J $ 1.0O = US $ 1.1            J$ 1.00 = US$0.95    J$1.00 =US$0.74    Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed                168.0      -
a/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
b/ Includes Bank's program loan of US$30 million.
c/ On May 10, the exchange rates were unified at the new rate of:
US$1.00 =  J$1.55
J$1.00 = US$0.64
not available
.not applicable



- 21 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as at April 30, 1978)
---- US$ million ----
Loan           Fiscal                                                            Amount
No.            Year          Borrower                  Purpose            (less cancellation)
Bank      Undisbursed
7 loans fully disbursed a/                                                46.3
727            1971          Jamaica                Education            13.5           6.3
899            1973          Jamaica                Highways              9.3           1.6
1003            1974          Jamaica                Sites & Services   15.0            10.9
1004            1974          Jamaica Development
Bank                Agriculture           5.5           1.6
1032            1975          Jamaica                Highways             13.5           8.2
1043            1975          Jamaica                Airports             12.5           4.7
1146            1975          The Water Commission Sewerage/Water         15.0          12.9
1284            1976          Jamaica                Population            6.8           6.1
1464            1977          Jamaica                Rural Development  15.0            15.0
1500            1978          Jamaica                Program Loan        30.0           30.0
1516 b/         1978          Jamaica Public
Service Company
Ltd.                Power                20.0          20.0
1517 b/         1978          Sugar Industry
Authority           Agriculture          18.0          18.0
Total (net cancellations)                          220.4
of which has been repaid                            14.5
Total now outstanding                              205.9
Amount sold                        1.6
of which has been repaid          1.4                0.2
Total now held by Bank                             205.7
Total undisbursed                                                135.3
a/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year.
b/   Declared effective June 1, 1978.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as at April 30. 1978)
Type of          -----US$ million----
Year           Obligor                     Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.             Pre-mix concrete    0.2       -     0.2
1968   Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.  Tourism                2.2    0.7    2.9
Total gross commitments                               2.4    0.7    3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 1.2     -     1.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                     1.2    0.7    1.9
Total undisbursed
C. Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 727   Second Education Project; US$13.5 million of March 25, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project implementation is about three years behind appraisal
schedule due to a change in government, high turnover in project unit staff
and a lack of project implementation machinery. However, project implemen-
tation now seems satisfactory. As a result of initial delays in getting the
physical aspects of the project underway, the construction of schools will
not be completed before August 1978. Thus, the Closing Date, originally
December 31, 1975, has been extended to December 31, 1978. Due to sharp
increases in prices and wages in the construction sector since appraisal,
estimated project costs are about 100% greater than originally anticipated.
Ln. No. 899   Road Improvement and Maintenance Project; US$9.3 million of
June 1, 1973; Effective Date: August 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Loan should be fully disbursed on the target date of
December 31, 1978. Most of the targets of the loan have been reached, with
the exceptions of the number of miles of overlay to be built by the project.
Only 240 out of the 440 miles of overlay that had been contained in the
project will be completed. The failure to meet the project targets have
principally been due to price increases.
Ln. No. 1003 Sites and Services Project; US$15.0 million of June 13, 1974;
Effective Date: September 9, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Delays in the project have been caused by initial start-up
problems, political violence and ineffective management controls. The project



- 23 -
ANNEX II
is about 18 months behind schedule and costs are running 50% more than
anticipated. The Government has adopted measures suggested by the Bank to
improve management systems and controls.
Ln. No. 1004 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$5.5 million of
June 13, 1974; Effective Date:  October 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The worsening general economic situation and difficult drought
conditions over the last year have had a negative impact on the Borrower (the
Jamaica Development Bank) and the project. As a result arrears on principal
and interest payments have risen to unacceptable levels. The Jamaica
Development Bank has initiated an in-depth review of its loan portfolio,
including the reappraisal and rescheduling of loans and the strengthening of
collection activities.
Ln. No. 1032 Third Highway Project; US$13.5 million of July 26, 1974;
Effective Date: September 27, 1974;
Closing Date:    March 31, 1980
Construction has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions,
redesign of some sections, unsuccessful tenders and labor problems. Additional
delays are being experienced because of the departure of qualified personnel
from the Ministry of Works and because of the lack of equipment and equipment
failures.
Ln. No. 1043  Airport Development Project; US$12.5 million of October 2, 1974;
Effective Date: March 14, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
All major contracts have now been awarded, but earlier delays
encountered during the design and award phases, mean that the project comple-
tion date will slip from 12 to 18 months, and the project cost will probably
exceed appraisal estimates by about 10%. Though execution of work in progress
has been slower than expected, the Government's tight fiscal situation makes
the revised construction schedule more acceptable. The Airports Authority's
aggressive management has improved this institution's financial position in
spite of reduced traffic and high inflation. Nonetheless, the Authority will
be unable to supply its contribution to the project financing plan. The short-
fall will be made up by the Government with help from the Venezuelan Investment
Fund.
Ln. No. 1146 Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project; US$15 million of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: June 24, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
After some initial delays in establishing the project unit,
project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction has begun
on all of the subcomponents of the water supply construction program and been
completed on one of them.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1284 Second Population Project; US$6.8 million of June 17, 1976;
Effective Date: August 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Civil works and procurement are on schedule and project costs
are within appraisal estimates. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1464 Rural Development Project; US$15 million of June 29, 1977;
Effective Date: October 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has gotten off to a relatively slow start. There
have been delays in the appointment of key project personnel and in establish-
ing administrative controls.
Ln. No. 1500 Program Loan; US$30 million of December 16, 1977;
Effective Date: February 27, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
In view of the new economic program adopted by the Government on
May 9, 1978 based on its negotiations for a three-year IMF Extended Fund Facility
arrangement, the Bank waived the no longer relevant disbursement conditions for
meeting performance targets under the earlier IMF two-year Stand-by arrangement.
In May 1978 the Government adopted a satisfactory three-year public sector
investment and financing program. The Government became eligible to draw funds
under the Loan on June 1, 1978.
Ln. No. 1516 Second Power Project; US$20 million of March 6, 1978;
Effective Date: June 1, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Loan declared effective June 1, 1978.
Ln. No. 1517 Sugar Rehabilitation Project; US$18 million of March 6, 1978;
Effective Date: June 1, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Loan declared effective June 1, 1978.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           One year.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Prepared by GOJ and the Bank.
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:   November 1976.
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:  May 1977.
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          December 1977.
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               June 2, 1978.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           October 15, 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The Government will use its best efforts to cause to be carried out by
June 30, 1980 a manufacturing sector survey for SSEs, under terms of
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 27).
2.   The following actions must take place prior to disbursement under
Subprogram I:
(a) BOJ will accredit at least one financial intermediary acceptable
to the Bank for participation in the program (para. 39).
(b) PIC will appoint an advisor with broad experience in lending to
SSEs to assist in project implementation (para. 41).
(c) JIDC will appoint a qualified advisor to assist it in project
promotion and appraisal (para. 42).
(d) BOJ will appoint a Project Coordinating Committee under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 44).
3.   BOJ will increase the capitalization of PIC by at least J$400,000 over
a two-year period (para. 40).
4.   PIC will prepare a project appraisal manual and procedures acceptable
to the Bank by December 31, 1978 (para. 41).



- 26 -
ANNEX III
5. PIC will organize training programs for commercial bank loan officers
(para. 41).
6. The Jamaica Industrial Development Commission (JIDC) will establish
a project promotion unit staffed by four persons and will provide
adequate financing for the unit. The appointment of an advisor to the
unit would be a condition of disbursement for Subprogram I (para. 42).
7. GOJ will permit sub-borrowers to import goods financed by the project
as well as goods necessary to maintain levels of production attained
as a result of financing under the project (para. 44).
8. GOJ will assure that SEDCO is allowed to conduct its business in a
manner which will ensure financial self-sufficiency and viability
and to employ and retain its staff on a merit basis (para. 47).
9. Prior to disbursement under Subprogram II, SEDCO will appoint an
advisor on general management and a financial investment advisor on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48).
10. GOJ will supply J$13 million in equity capital to SEDCO over a four-year
period, but the GOJ's obligation to make such equity contribution would
be reduced by the net cash flow generated by the SBLB assets transferred
to SEDCO (para. 49).
11. Subject to subsequent agreement between the parties, the subsectors
eligible for financing will be garments, food processing, woodwork,
footwear, light metals, building materials, toys, construction and
crafts (para. 52).
12. Under Subprogram I, the first two subloans from each participating
intermediary would be submitted to the Bank for approval; the free
limit would extend to loans under $80,000, provided the total of
subloans does not exceed $2.25 million. Under Subprogram II, the
Bank would review the first ten subprojects (para. 53).
13. The minimum interest rate to sub-borrowers under Subprogram I will
initially be equal to the weighted average commercial rate, which is
currently 13.5%. The rate will be adjusted in subsequent quarters if
the average weighted average commercial rate for the preceding period
rose by more than 0.25%, but will not be less than 13.5%. Under Sub-
program II, SEDCO will charge an initial minimum interest rate of at
least 11% on all its loans and a subsequent rate at least equivalent to
the prime commercial rate, but not less than 11%. Interest rates on any
subloan made under Subprograms I and II will remain constant for the life
of the subloan. Interest rates charged to sub-borrowers under
Subprograms I and II will be reviewed annually during the commitment
period to review their adequacy and accommodate any unforeseen rise in
inflation rates. Loan funds will not be used to finance new commitments
if the Bank and Borrower do not agree on subloan interest rates to be
charged during the subsequent year (para. 54).



K                        CAF/ROtAM *AA
< 0 H A NO V E R A ~~~ST, JAMES                                                                                           !TEAN     r ^IAC f4C,, ICEA  COMA 
PORTLAND                   A  OR
ERINE                                                             - ------ 0   V   }/  |  ST ANN  X   l 0   ST   M A R YCS       5 -  9 A
MANCHESTER                                                                                        _               l10        5                                  |
JAMAICA                    s ,                      <               C oksGofe                                                           2             sI                  pL5    Q    ;EIC|
-    Naln foSq~~~~~~
C ~         ~         2fl 2/AR/  IA                                                                    /F5               C         0078 



