CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1609 JM
Project Agreement
(Small-Scale Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF JAMAICA
and
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LIMITED
and
JAMAICA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated August 2, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1609 JM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
BANK OF JAMAICA (hereinafter called BOJ), SMALL ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (hereinafter called SEDCO) and
JAMAICA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called
JIDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars
($7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, BOJ and SEDCO, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement and allocated to Categories
(1) and (2) will be made available to BOJ and SEDCO on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
(C) by the Loan Agreement the Borrower has agreed to make
available to BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC the proceeds of the loan allo-
cated to Category (3) as a grant for purposes of the Project;
and
WHEREAS BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have each
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC
Section 2.01. (a) BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall carry out the
Project described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and
conduct their respective operations and affairs, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel
and in accordance with their respective Statutes and, as the
case may be, Statements of Policy.
(b) The Sub-sectors eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to BOJ and SEDCO shall include: (i) gar-
ments; (ii) food processing; (iii) woodwork; (iv) footwear;
(v) building materials; (vi) toys; (vii) light metals;
(viii) crafts; and (ix) construction. Additions to or deletions
from the Sub-sectors listed in this paragraph may be made by
agreement between the Borrower, the Bank, BOJ and SEDCO.
(c) BOJ shall continue to operate, or cause to be operated,
in a manner and form satisfactory to the Bank its Small Business-
men's Financing Scheme.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, BOJ and SEDCO shall deliver
or cause to be delivered to the Bank, Investment Projects for
approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the
Loan Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-linit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, BOJ and SEDCO shall each
furnish or cause to be furnished, to the Bank an application, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be fitnanced
thereunder (including a description of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed by BOJ and SEDCO and an
appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request; and (ii) such appraisals shall, with respect to
MSSE Sub-loans include a calculation of both the internal finan-
cial and economic rates of return established in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
(c) In the case of free-limit MSSE Sub-loans where c.i.f.
prices for comparable imported goods are 20% or more below ex-
factory prices, BOJ shall cause PIC to calculate the internal
economic rate of return.
(d) Each request by BOJ or SEDCO for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(e) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace not
exceeding three years, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from
the date of approval by the Bank of such Investment Project or of
authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semiannual, or more frequent, payments of prircipal.
(f) Except as the Bank, BOJ and SEDCO shall otherwise agree,
BOJ and SEDCO shall each submit applications for approval of
Investment Projects pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of
this Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section on or before October 31, 1981.
Section 2.03. (a) BOJ and SEDCO each undertakes that unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby BOJ and SEDCO shall each obtain, or cause to be obtained,
by written agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and of BOJ and
SEDCO, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan and to the
extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any such
Investment: (i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
the right to require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment be used exclu-
sively in the carryir3 out of the Investment Project; (iii) the


﻿right of the Bank and of BOJ and SEDCO to inspect such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) the right to require that the Investment Enter-
prise take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use or installation, and
that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Bank,
or BOJ or SEDCO shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the right of BOJ or SEDCO
to suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan unr failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with BOJ or SEDCO.
(b) The following interest rates and formulas for adjusting
interest rates shall, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)
below, be applied to Sub-loans unless such rates and formulas are
modified by the annual review provided for in Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement:
(i) for MSSE Sub-loans, the minimum rate shall be
13.5% per annum and shall be adjusted in subsequent
quarters to the average weighted average commercial
rate in the preceding quarter if the variation in
such rate from the existing rate for such Sub-loans
exceeds 0.25%; and
(ii) for VSSE Sub-loans, the minimum rate shall be 11%
per annum or the prime lending rate established by
BOJ, whichever is higher.
For the purpose of this paragraph the term "weighted average
commercial rate" means the interest rate for commercial lending by
commercial banks published by BOJ from time to time.
(c) The interest rate applicable to a Sub-loan under para-
graph (b) above shall not be varied during the life of the Sub-
loan and any adjustment in interest rates required under the said


﻿-5-
paragraph shall not apply to Sub-loans already made before such
an adjustment.
(d) BOJ shall cause PIC to rediscount MSSE Sub-loans to
participating intermediaries at a rate which shall provide a
spread of 4.5% to such participating intermediaries.
(e) BOJ and SEDCO shall each exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and of BOJ and SEDCO, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall each furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Sub-loans, the Project, the Investment Enter-
prises, the Investment Projects and the Sub-loans.
Section 2.05. BOJ and SEDCO shall each duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, BOJ and SEDCO shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amend-
ing, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank, BOJ and SEDCO shall other-
wise agree, BOJ and SEDCO: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of their respective property or assets,
except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall each
take all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. BOJ and SEDCO shall each cause their respective
Subsidiaries (if any) to observe and perform the respective
obligations of BOJ and SEDCO under this Agreement to the extent to
which the same may be made applicable thereto as though such
obligations were binding upon each of such Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. SEDCO shall not amend, and BOJ shall ensure
that PIC does not amend, their respective Statements of Policy
except in consultation with the Bank, and SEDCO shall exchange
views with the Bank on any proposal to modify its Memorandum and
Articles of Association.


﻿-6-
Section 2.09. SEDCO shall employ and thereafter retain,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and SEDCO, two
suitably qualified persons one as an adviser on general management
and the other as financial investment adviser to SEDCO.
Section 2.10. (a) BOJ shall increase PIC's capital by an
additional J$400,000 or more over a period of two years with not
less than J$150,000 being paid in 1978 and not less than J$250,000
in 1979.
(b) BOJ shall cause PIC to employ :;.'d thereafter retain on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank a suitably qualified
adviser to assist PIC in developing its appraisal capability.
Section 2.11. (a) BOJ shall not later than December 31, 1978
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a
project appraisal manual, a standard application form and loan
processing procedures, all of which shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) BOJ shall not later than August 31, 1978 modify its
Small Businessmen's Financing Scheme so as to incorporate in
the said Scheme terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.12. BOJ shall, with the assistance of JIB and PIC,
prepare training programs and conduct training courses in project
appraisal for officers of participating commercial banks.
Section 2.13. JIDC shall employ and thereafter retain on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and JIDC a suitably
qualified adviser to assist it in developing its project prepara-
tion capability.
Section 2.14. JIDC shall establish a technical assistance
unit for the Project staffed, after consultation with the Bank,
with four suitably qualified persons, two of whom shall be
employed by December 31, 1978 and the remaining two by June 30,
1979.
Section 2.15. BOJ shall establish a Project Coordinating Com-
mittee in form and with membership, powers and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall each maintain, or
cause to be maintained, records adequate to record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the respective operations and
financial condition of BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. SEDCO shall, and BOJ shall cause PIC to: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the bank such othe-.
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
SEDCO and PIC and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and SEDCO shall otherwise
agree, SEDCO shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt
of SEDCO and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed four times the consolidated capital and surplus of
SEDCO and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by SEDCO or
any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaran-
teed by SEDCO or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,


﻿- 8 -
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Jamaican dollars debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable in Jamaica for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of SEDCO and all its Subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of SEDCO and all its Sub-
sidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by SEDCO to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to SEDCO or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii)
debt referred to in par.-graph (e) (i) and (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SEDCO
and all its Subsidiaries" ue-.as the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of SEDCO
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of SEDCO in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in SEDCO or in any other Subsidiary, and
(ii) such amount of any other loan which the Bank may determine
to be included in the consolidated capital and surplus of SEDCO.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and SEDCO shall otherwise
agree, SEDCO shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits) having
an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. SEDCO shall, and BOJ shall cause PIC to, take
such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to
protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the various currencies (including
Jamaican dollars) used in its borrowing and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank, BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall coop-
erate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be
accomplished. To that end, the Bank, BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall
from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views


﻿- 9 -
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance by BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Loan.
(b) BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall each furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of BOJ,
SEDCO and JIDC and their Subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by
BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC of their respective obligations under this
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall each enable the
Bank's representatives to inspect the records referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify BOJ, SEDCO
and JIDC.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿- 10 -
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BOJ:
Bank of Jamaica
Nethersole Place
P.O. Box 621
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                     Telex:
RESERVE                            381-2165
Kingston                           Kingston
For SEDCO:
4, Ellesmere Road
Kingston 10, Jamaica
Cable address:
IDC
Kingston


﻿- 11 -
For JIDC:
Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation
4 Winchester Road
Kingston 10
Jamaica
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDECORP                            381-2193
Kingston
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of: (i) BOJ, may be taken or executed by
its Secretary, or by such other person or persons as BOJ shall
designate in writing; (ii) on behalf of SEDCO, may be taken or
executed by its Managing Director, or by such other person or
persons as SEDCO shall designate in writing; and (iii) on behalf
of JIDC, may be taken or executed by its Managing Director, or
by such other person or persons as JIDC shall designate in
writing, and BOJ, SEDCO and JIDC shall each furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
BANK OF JAMAICA
By /s/ Alfred Rattray
Authorized Representative
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LIMITED
By /s/ Alfred Rattray
Authorized Representative
JAMAICA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Alfred Rattray
Authorized Representative


