CONPORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 523 MAI
Development Credit
-A-
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 523 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "MOWS" means the Ministry of Works
and Supplies of the Borrower, and any successor or successors thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on   each  February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 1985, and ending August 15, 2024, each installment
to and including the installment payable on August 15, 1994 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Roads
Department of MOWS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause the Lilongwe-Kasungu highway to be improved so as to conform with the
design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)  Without limiting or otherwise restricting its obligations under paragraph
(b) of this Section, the Borrower shall consult with the Association fron time
to time on the desirability of using a cement-stabilized base for particular segments
of the highway included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order .to assist the Borrower in the supervision of highway
and bridge construction included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ


﻿5
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil works included in Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ contractors whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction  and  procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. By December   1, 1976, or such other date as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall discuss with the


﻿6
Association its evaluation report on the pilot program referred to in Part B of
the Project and, based upon such discussion, shall take such action as may be
necessary to implement in other districts of the Borrower a program similar to
said pilot program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take such measures as may be necessary
to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the Borrower's
highways and roads are consistent with the structural and geometric design standards
of such highways and roads.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a suitable traffic
data collection system to assist the improvement and development of its highway
and road system.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to maintain and repair its main and
secondary road system in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, all funds, equipment, workshop facilities,
labor and other resources requihed for this purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 21, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Repiesentative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿8
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ R. Mbale
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                     7,410,000         80%
under Part A
of the Project
(2)  Consultants'                     280,000           100% of foreign
services                                          expenditures
(3)   Pilot program                   200,000           100% of foreign
for development                                   expenditures and
and maintenance                                   50% of local
of district roads                                 expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                     2, 110,000
TOTAL         10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower, and
(b the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on


﻿10
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Improvement of the Lilongwe-Kasungu highway (a distance of about 73
miles) to a two-laned bituminous paved standard, including (i) a bypass
(known as Road 20) around the industrial area in Lilongwe and (ii)
reconstruction of the Lingadzi Bridge on the MI Road in Lilongwe.
Part B:
Establishment of a pilot program in Kasungu District to improve the
development and maintenance of district roads throughout the territory of
the Borrower, including the carrying out of a study to determine inter alia
(i) the most suitable methods of road maintenance for such program, (ii)
the necessary operational and training funding requirements for such program
and (iii) the feasibility of extending such program to other districts of the
Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A(3) hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to the contracts referred to in Part A(1) of this Schedule:
(i)         Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines;
and
(ii)        the civil works included in Part A of the Project shall be
constructed under one unit-price contract.
3.    Contracts for the purchase of equipment and vehicles and for the civil works
included in Part B of the Project shall be let on the basis of local competition
pursuant to the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification: The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and


﻿13
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for the
Lilongwe-Kasungu Highway
Width of right-of-way                                    200 ft
Design speed                                             60 mph
Stopping sight distance                                  475 ft
Passing sight distance                                  2,000 ft
Minimum radius horizontal                               1,150 ft
Maximum radius                                             50
Maximum gradient                                          5%
Bituminous surfaced width                                 22 ft
Roadway v idth                                            32 ft
Crossfall pavement                                         1:30
Crossfall shoulders                                        1:20
Cuttings                                                   1:1; 2:1 if height is
greater than 4 ft.
Embankments                                                1:3; 1:1.5 if height
is greater than 4 ft.
Pavement type                                              Subbase: 4-6 in. natural
gravel
Base: 6 in. natural gravel
or cement-stabilized base,
pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.01(c) of this
Agreement
Surface: Double bituminous
surface
Pavement design axle-load                                 18,000 lbs. equivalent
RRL Report LR 279
Structures: Width                                         Equal to roadway width
Loading                                         BS153, 0.8 x H.A.
15U x H.B.


