Page  1
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 1
GPOBA PROJECT APPRAISAL - COMMITMENT DOCUMENT 
 
Project Name: Cameroon Water Lease 
–
OBA for Coverage Expansion (P106794) 
 
Project Summary 
 
The objective of the project is to expand access to urban water supply in Cameroon through a 
subsidized household connections program, to be implemented by the international private 
operator, ONEP of Morocco, competitively selected to run the national water utility under a 10-
year lease contract in August 2007. 
 
The project shall allow for the installation of 55,000 household connections in urban areas 
countrywide over 4 years, equivalent to a 25% increase in the total number of water connections 
in the country. An estimated population of 330,000 people shall gain access to safe piped water 
(current urban coverage is estimated at 35%). 
 
For a typical household connection, the connection cost amounts to US$ 198, plus US$ 53 as an 
initial guarantee deposit, giving a total of US$ 251 to be paid upfront by a new customer. This 
clearly is not affordable to most urban households, where average monthly income is US$ 31 for 
the first income quintile increasing to US$ 68 for the third quintile. As a consequence, the 
households currently connected to the piped water network mostly belong to the 4
th
 and 5
th
 
income quintiles. 
 
When the GPOBA project was initially conceived in August 2006, GPOBA was requested to 
provide a grant amounting to US$10 million.  However, in September 2007 a Presidential Decree 
reduced by half the level of connection fee (which previously was set at connection cost), so that 
the fee for a typical household connection is now US$ 99. Camwater, the asset-holding company 
will finance the difference between the actual connection cost and the connection fee applicable 
after the Presidential Decree.  
 
As a result of the Presidential Decree, the required subsidy from GPOBA was halved to US$ 5 
million. It is proposed that the GPOBA grant will finance up to US$ 91 per connection or US$ 15 
per person, depending on the length of the connection. Thus for a typical household connection, 
the GPOBA grant would be US$ 89, and the household contribution would be US$ 10. GPOBA 
would subsidize 90% of the current level of connection fee, and 45% of the total connection cost. 
Camwater would finance 50% of the connection cost. The user would pay 10% of the connection 
fee (5% of connection cost) plus an initial guarantee deposit of US$ 53, so that the up-front cash 
contribution required would be around US$ 63 per beneficiary household. Based on previous 
experience with subsidized water connection programs in the region (Senegal, Burkina, Niger), it 
is expected that this level of upfront payment would be affordable for most households in the 
second and third income quintile. These are poor households with a daily income per capita of 
49306 
Page  2
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 2
less than US$ 0.40. It is also expected based on this experience that most of the poorer 
households from the first income quintile would not be interested in a residential connection, and 
an already approved IDA-loan to be implemented in parallel with the proposed GPOBA project 
will finance at least 1,200 new community standpipes to ensure that they also get improved 
access to piped water in the future. 
 
Although Camwater, as the asset-holding company, will be the nominal recipient of the grant, the 
international private operator will be directly responsible for the implementation of the GPOBA 
project, which it was fully delegated under the lease contract. Namely, Camwater will establish a 
Subsidized Connection Fund (SCF) with a dedicated bank account to be managed directly by the 
private operator. Camwater will pre-finance the connections out of this SCF, the private operator 
will implement the connections. The connections will be verified, triggering disbursement of the 
GPOBA subsidy to the SCF. 
 
The operator is remunerated through a volumetric fee of US$ 0.36 per m3 billed and collected 
(which was the parameter of the tender), plus a monthly fixed fee of US$ 3 per customer, which 
fully covers marginal O&M costs even for small customers. These will provide incentives for the 
operator to expand its customer base through the project, including to modest-income households.  
 
With respect to the cost recovery of service provision, a review of the financial projection of the 
winning bidder confirmed that: (i) its remuneration will fully cover its overall O&M and (partial) 
investment obligations, (ii) its monthly remuneration for small customers (5-6 m3 per month) will 
fully cover its marginal O&M costs of serving them, (iii) the expected total revenue flow from 
users
’
tariff collection will exceed the total remuneration of the operator, thereby providing the 
asset holding company Camwater with increasing cash-flow to service debt and finance system 
expansion (it is expected that the urban water sector would become self financed by the end of the 
10-year lease, as was successfully achieved in Senegal). 
 
The international private operator has been competitively procured following Bank procedures 
and will be remunerated through a cost schedule included in the lease contract. The GPOBA 
subsidy will be paid every trimester directly to an account owned by Camwater but entirely 
managed by the operator, conditional on the independent verification of the outputs.   
 
This connection subsidy project will be implemented as part of an Urban and Water Development 
Support (P084002) IDA loan, whose Component 3 includes an amount of US$ 33 million from 
IDA to support the implementation of the public-private partnership between Camwater and the 
international private operator. The proposed connection subsidy program was explicitly included 
and analyzed as part of Component 3 of the IDA operation, as it is an integral part of the lease 
contract. Financial management, procurement and safeguards policies issues were analyzed 
during the IDA loan preparation, and mitigation measures carried out under the implementation 
of the Bank loan. 
Page  3
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 3
 
Project Fact Sheet
Scope
:
Expanding access to urban water supply through household connections, through an 
international private operator managing the national water utility under a lease contract. 
 
Total project costs
:
$11,850,000 including Government (Camwater) and 
users’ contributions 
 
Total GPOBA funding requested
:
$5,350,000 
·
Subsidy funding = $5,000,000 (W3) 
·
Project implementation/consulting = $250,000 (W3) 
·
Bank/GPOBA supervision = $100,000 
 
Table 1: Estimated Project Cost Break-down by Activity (US $)
 
GPOBA 
Funding 
Co-Financing by 
Government* 
Contribution 
by users* 
Total 
Connections installation 
5,000,000 
5,750,000 
750,000 
11,500,000 
VAT  
 
 
 
Independent Verification Agent 
250,000 
 
 
250,000 
Supervision (WB/GPOBA) 
100,000 
 
 
100,000 
TOTAL 5,350,000 
5,750,000 
750,000 11,850,000 
*
Government co-
financing and Users’ contribution are estimates (actual amount will depend on the 
average length of connections installed). The above does not include the Initial Deposit that users are 
expected to pay up-front. 
 
GPOBA funding: 
financed by GPOBA contributions by the Dutch, DFID and possibly SIDA 
 
Additional funding sources
:
The state-owned asset holding company Camwater will contribute 
an estimated US$ 5.75 million. Beneficiary users will also pay at least 5% of the cost of each 
connection equivalent to an estimated US$ 0.75 million in total (actual amounts for Camwater 
and beneficiaries will depend on connection length, see B.2.1.).  
 
Outputs
:
55,000 household connections
 added to the water distribution network, equivalent to a 
population of 
330,000 people
 gaining access to piped water (based on 6 persons per household). 
 
GPOBA subsidy “efficiency”
:
US$ 15 per person without supervision and verification; US$16 
per person with supervision and verification. 
 
Returns: 
Economic IRR estimated at 46%, financial IRR estimated at 16% with the project, 5% 
without. 
 
Targeting
:
the project will target the unconnected urban population in the first two years. It is 
expected that these shall be essentially poor to lower middle income households (i.e. monthly 
incomes of less than US$ 68 for an average family of 6). Further targeting for the poor will be 
considered starting in year 3. 
 
Page  4
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 4
Grant recipient
:
National Asset-holding public company Camwater (as concessionaire of the 
systems), but the funds will be directly managed by the international private operator, as outlined 
in the lease contract. 
 
Disbursement: 
Over a 4-year period, disbursements will take place every trimester following 
certification of outputs by independent verification agent.
 
Financial Management
:
Risks are assessed as Moderate.  GPOBA subsidies are disbursed to the 
private operator through a dedicated commercial bank account, based on independent auditor 
financed by the program to verify new connections in the field before allowing disbursements of 
OBA funds. 
 
Procurement
:
all connections to be executed by the international private operator, which was 
selected competitively following Bank procurement rules (based on a fully satisfactory technical 
offer and the lowest operating fee per m3 of water sold and collected). The private operator will 
be paid for each connection according to cost schedule based on size and length. The cost 
schedule is attached to the lease contract, was known in advance by each bidder when calculating 
their proposal for the operating fee, and is subject to periodic revision based on market 
references. 
 
Environmental clearance
:
The GPOBA project was prepared as part of a larger IDA operation 
for urban and water reform which falls under category B. Since environmental and social 
safeguards for the proposed GPOBA project have already been complied with as part of the IDA 
project, no additional EA will be carried out for the GPOBA project, which is independently rated 
as a Category C. 
 
Government endorsement
:
Yes. State assets holding company Camwater 
 
Exchange rate
:
485 CFA = US$1 as of August 2007 
 
Page  5
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 5
Panel of Expert
s’ Issues raised at Eligibility Stage (August 2006) 
 
1. Linking of the Project components. 
The panel of experts (PoE) inquired as to how the proposed subsidy program would be bundled 
into the tender process for a lease program 
 
¾
The tender was officially launched in January 2007. The potential contribution from 
GPOBA under the present project was included in the tender documents
1
(with the 
proposed subsidized connection program covered in the lease contract) and 
corresponding procurement, financial management and safeguards review carried out as 
part of the IDA operation that will support the lease contract with an international 
operator. Two international consortia, led respectively by Veolia and ONEP (state-
owned, largest water utility in Morocco), submitted technical offers in March 2007 and 
both were deemed fully satisfactory by the Technical Commission in charge of 
Privatization (CTPL) of the Ministry of Finance.  
¾
The financial proposal based on the lowest operator’s fee was submitted on July 3
rd
 2007 
and opened the same day. ONEP submitted the lowest cost offer with a fee of 176 
CFA/m3 (US$ 0.36 per m3), while Veolia offer was 269 CFA/m3. Following detailed 
review of the bid’s financial projections, the technical commission recommended that the 
contract be awarded to ONEP. A non-objection was issued by the Bank in August 2007. 
An inter-ministerial Committee voted unanimously the award of the lease contract to 
ONEP on September 6
th
,
2007. The lease contract is now pending closing. 
 
2. Split of responsibilities between operation and investment under the lease contract. 
The PoE expressed concerns about the split in responsibility between the investment program, to 
be carried out mostly by the assets holding company Camwater, and the operation of the utility 
transferred to the private operator under the lease. This split has created interface problems in 
earlier lease contracts that are well documented in various case studies and sector reviews. The 
PoE also expressed strong preference for the operator to take direct responsibility for execution of 
the connection works.  
 
¾
Under the Cameroon lease, the private operator will be entirely responsible for the 
installation of new connections, subject to terms for cost and technical standards included 
in the lease contract. To mitigate the risk that delays in the investment program due to 
Camwater affect the expansion of the water system and the capacity of the operator to 
increase the number of connections as planned, the lease contract has been tendered 
together with a contract for the execution of $14.9 million in civil works (production 
facilities and distribution network) financed by the Bank (IDA), to be executed directly 
by the private operator in the first two years of the lease. Under the lease contract, the 
operator will also be responsible for funding around US$ 4 million of civil work out of 
users’ tariff collection. This shall leave sufficient flexibility for the operator to be able to 
ensure that priority civil works are carried out without delays during the beginning of the 
lease contract. 
1
Although it was originally expected that the funding commitment from GPOBA would be sought before 
the tender award, the task team did not want to ask GPOBA to commit funds before it was sure the 
competitive tender was effectively awarded, validating the IDA project. The tender process experienced 
difficulties due to the threat that one of the two pre-qualified bidder could retire from the process, which 
would have invalidated the project by making a competitive selection of the operator impossible. 
Page  6
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 6
 
3. Involvement of state-owned asset holding company Camwater.  
The PoE requested further clarification regarding the precise nature of involvement of 
CAMWATER in the proposed GPOBA operation. The PoE expressed strong preference for the 
payment of GPOBA to be made directly to the private operator. The panel also stated a 
preference for the operator to take some pre-financing risk, but recognized (as explained by the 
team) that in the current market environment taking pre-financing risks was unlikely to be 
acceptable to international operators. If this was the case, the PoE requested the team to explore 
an option for Camwater to capitalize a working capital fund. 
 
¾
Although Camwater as asset-holding company will own the newly installed connections 
and will be the official recipient of the OBA grant (as well as the provider of a 
contribution of an equivalent amount to the subsidy funding), the proposed operation will 
be implemented entirely by the operator. The lease contract explicitly establishes that the 
private operator shall be responsible for the implementation of the subsidized connection 
program, including the management of funds. Camwater involvement will be limited to 
making deposits to replenish its share of subsidy funding, and carrying out ex-post audits. 
¾
Following discussions with the two consortia during the tender process, the project team 
concluded that it was not advisable to push for the transfer of pre-financing risk to the 
private operator. Given the current market conditions, the likelihood was high that 
introducing this feature could have forced one potential bidder to retire from the process. 
Instead, it was agreed that Camwater would establish a Subsidized Connection Fund 
(SCF) with a dedicated bank account to be managed directly by the private operator, and 
take the pre-financing risk with an initial deposit of 400 million CFA (around US$ 0.8 
million)
2
.
¾
The lease contract explicitly establishes that the private operator will be responsible for 
directly managing the SCF and the corresponding dedicated bank account, subject to 
monthly reporting of the flow of funds to Camwater. All GPOBA payments will be made 
directly to the SCF bank account managed by the private operator. 
 
4. Cost estimate. 
The PoE requested clarification on the details of the cost estimate submitted by the team, as the 
benchmark based on Camwater current connection tariff and cost schedule for new connections 
might not reflect competitive market conditions. The PoE requested the team to produce a more 
detailed benchmark for the efficient costs of making connections, to be fixed as unit price for the 
operator prior to submission of tender offers. This costing should allow for differentiation of 
connections subsidies with regard to the distance of connected households from the network, one 
major cost driver for unit costs. 
 
¾
The transaction adviser (financed by the Bank) had a detailed review of Camwater 
connection costs carried out by a technical consultant in October 2006, using regional 
comparisons and consultations with suppliers. As a result, a detailed cost schedule for 
new connections (outlining what the private operator would receive depending on length 
and diameter) was prepared and included in the lease contract. The lease contract 
provides for occasional revisions of this cost schedule based on market references.  
2
Although the project team understood from the PoE that this was not the preferred solution, it was the 
only option given the risk of losing one bidder during the tender process. The PoE was specifically 
informed of this in the March 5-6 meetings and agreed with the option adopted given the circumstances. 
Page  7
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 7
¾
The contractual cost schedule was included in the lease contract as part of the tender 
documents. It was therefore incorporated in the financial offer submitted by each bidder. 
¾
In order that the beneficiary users share in the increased cost associated with the length of 
connection, the OBA subsidy was designed so that it represents 90% of the current 
connection fee (45% of the total connection cost) for households located up to around 17 
meters away from the tertiary network, with the cost associated with any additional meter 
to be paid entirely by the beneficiary. 
 
5. Targeting. 
The PoE 
requested some clarification on the team’s decision to propose no further targeting of 
households receiving the subsidy beyond an element of self-selection (eligibility only for small 
diameter connections) and a formal exclusion of middle and high income residential areas 
developed by real estate developers. The PoE also requested the team to refine how exclusion of 
middle and higher income households from connection subsidies would be managed, in particular 
when public investments would lead to network expansion, and suggested including regular 
targeting reviews, with adjustments if audits indicate poor targeting accuracy. 
 
¾
In the absence of reliable information, the project team assessed that designing a credible 
(proxy) means test to carry out targeting was not a viable option in Cameroon at that 
stage. The urban areas already covered by the water network are those areas where high 
income households are concentrated (due to higher property prices). Overall income of 
unconnected urban populations is low (monthly incomes of less than 33,075 CFA or 
US$68). Making the connection subsidy available to all households during the project 
implementation span is unlikely to result in significant bias towards rich households. 
 
¾
In order to mitigate the risk that a significant number of households in the two highest 
income quintiles could benefit from the subsidy during year 3 and 4, the consultant that 
will carry out the verification of the connections will document the socio-economic 
profile of the beneficiary households. If it was found at mid-term review that a significant 
number of non-poor households were benefiting, then the program would be adjusted to 
ensure better targeting. This tracking of beneficiaries will also be useful to improve the 
targeting in case a second connection subsidy program is implemented after the end of 
this project (year 5). 
 
¾
Based on the Bank experience with subsidized water connection programs funded by 
IDA in other countries of the region (Senegal, Burkina, Niger), it is expected that most of 
the households from the 2
nd
 and 3
rd
 quintile would be interested and able to afford a 
subsidized connection, given the level of upfront payment they would have to make 
under the proposed GPOBA program of around US$ 63. The experience has also shown 
that the poorest households in the 5
th
 quintile are typically not interested in an individual 
connection, and the IDA-loan (already approved) to be executed in parallel with the 
GPOBA program will finance at least 1,200 new community standpipes to ensure that 
they also gain improved access to piped water in the coming years. 
 
6. 
Private operator’s incentives and obligations to expand coverage. 
The PoE requested clarification regarding the incentives for the private operator to make 
connections, as well as its specific obligations under the lease contract.  
The PoE also advised the team to retain the current fixed charge assessed as part of the tariff even 
for low consumption households. While often costly for lower income households, the amount 
seems to reflect the reasonable fixed costs associated with water utility customers. 
 
Page  8
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 8
¾
As already mentioned, the private operator has been made responsible under the lease 
contract for the implementation of the connection subsidy program. In addition, the 
private operator will have positive commercial incentives for making such connections as 
the installation cost will be fully covered, and it will result in a significant increase in its 
customer base. In commercial terms, the contract would benefit from enhanced sales 
expected from a substantial addition to the customer base, and there are indications that 
the winning bidder is actually planning on large customer expansion to be able to reach 
financial equilibrium.
3
¾
The customer tariff structure in Cameroon is based on progressive consumption brackets, 
as is the case in many water utilities elsewhere, to ensure cross-subsidies between large 
and small customers. This typically results in a disincentive for a utility to serve the poor 
as the low tariff applied to their modest consumption typically result in monthly invoices 
below the marginal O&M costs of servicing them. The advantage to the lease contract is 
that the remuneration of the private operator per m3 of water billed and collected does 
not have to follow the tariff structure and its consumption bracket. In the case of 
Cameroon, the financial structure of the lease contract bases the remuneration of the 
private operator on a combination of (i) a fixed volumetric amount per m3 sold which is 
the same regardless of the 
customer’s consumption bracket; and (ii) a fixed monthly fee 
of around US$ 3 dollars per customer. It has been verified based on financial projections 
that this remuneration structure ensures that servicing the poor households will be a 
profitable business for the private operator, covering the marginal O&M cost of servicing 
them. In accordance with the lease contract, Camwater will cover any difference between 
the revenues collected by the private operator and its contractual remuneration.
 
Pa
nel of Experts’ Issues raised during the March 2007 discussion 
The team explained recent developments, and that much progress had been made in negotiating 
with the GoC the incorporation of the requests of the PoE in the tender documents, in particular 
that the operator will get the subsidy money directly and would be making the connections. But 
the operator will not be pre-financing the connections 
–
the asset company would, given the 
current market situation and the reluctance of international water operator to take financial risks 
in Cameroon. 
 
This issue of risk sharing between Camwater and the operator was explicitly discussed at the 
same time the Mozambique project was presented for commitment at the March 2007 Panel 
meeting. The team sought confirmation from the Panel on whether it would be fine that the 
operator does not pre-finance the connections in the Cameroun water, while it explicitly required 
that the PO pre-finances outputs in the Mozambique water project. The panel confirmed it was 
fine with this. 
 
The team also explained that the GPOBA subsidy requirement had significantly been reduced as 
the President reduced the required connection charge by half. 
3
This however would not happen unless the GPOBA program is put in place as the connection fee would 
not be affordable for most urban households. 
Page  9
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 9
Institutional Arrangements of GPOBA Project 
 
0. Initial SCF funding plus 
periodic reple
nishment 
5. Periodic reimbursements 
Private operator ONEP 
2: ONEP w
ithdraw funds to install connection
Beneficiary household 
1: Household pays 
10% fee contribution 
and initial deposit 
3: 
ONEP install new 
connection
Subsidized connection 
Fund (SCF) 
Lease 
Contract 
GPOBA 
Camwater
4. Output 
verification by 
Independent 
Verification 
Agent 
Page  10
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 10
 
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFD 
 
Agence Fran
çaise de Développement 
Camwater 
CFA 
National Water Asset-Holding Company 
Franc CFA 
E-IRR 
Economic Internal Rate of Return 
E-NPV 
Economic-Net Present Value 
EIB 
European  Development Bank 
GPOBA 
Global Partnership on Output Based Aid 
F-IRR 
Financial Internal Rate of Return 
FMM Financial 
Management 
Manual 
F-NPV 
Financial-Net Present Value 
GNI Gross 
National 
Income 
GoC 
Government of Cameroon 
IBRD 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
IDA 
International Development Agency 
IFC International 
Finance 
Corporation 
IFR 
Interim Financial Reports 
IRR 
Internal Rate of Return 
MDG 
Millennium Development Goal 
MoF 
Ministry of Finance 
OBA 
Output Based Aid 
ONEP 
Office National de l’Eau Potable 
PoE 
Panel of Experts 
SOP 
Standard Operating Procedure 
TA Technical 
Assistance 
TF Trust 
Fund 
ToR 
Terms of Reference 
WB World 
Bank 
Page  11
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 11
Table of Contents 
 
Project Summary....................................................................................................................1 
Project Fact Sheet...................................................................................................................3 
Panel of Experts’ Issues raised at Eligibility Stage (August 2006)........................................5 
Panel of Experts’ Issues raised during the March 2007 discussion.......................................8 
 
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE..............................................................12 
A.1. Background: low access for piped water and the introduction of a private operator...12 
A. 2. Rationale for a connection subsidy program...............................................................13 
A. 3. Rationale for GPOBA involvement ............................................................................13 
A. 4. Coordination with sector policy and overall Bank strategy........................................14 
 
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.............................................................................................15 
B.1. Project development objective and key indicators.......................................................15 
B. 2. Project design ..............................................................................................................15 
B. 2. 1. Subsidy amount & structure....................................................................................15 
B. 2. 2. Other design components........................................................................................17 
B.3. Economic and financial analysis ..................................................................................19 
B.3.1 Economic analysis:.....................................................................................................19 
B.3.2 Financial Analysis:.....................................................................................................19 
B.4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.....................................................20 
B.5. Alternatives considered and rejected............................................................................20 
 
C. IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................................................................21 
1. Milestones for project implementation ............................................................................21 
2. Partnership arrangements.................................................................................................22 
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements...............................................................22 
4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results...............................................................23 
5.  Sustainability...................................................................................................................23 
6. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects..............................................................24 
 
Annexes
 
Annex 1.  Project Costs Schedule........................................................................................26 
Annex 2:  Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements...................................27 
Annex 3. Procurement..........................................................................................................32 
Annex 4.  Safeguards - Environment & Social Issues (OP/BP 4.01)...................................34 
Annex 5. Project Preparation and Supervision.....................................................................35 
Annex 6. Documents in the Project File ..............................................................................36 
Annex 7. Map.......................................................................................................................37 
Page  12
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 12
 
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE 
A.1. Background: low access for piped water and the introduction of a private operator  
 
Urban access figures for piped water are very low in Cameroon   
With access to piped water estimated at 35% of the urban population in 2006, Cameroon lags 
well behind countries such as Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal (70% and 80% respectively), despite 
having one of the highest GNP per capita of sub-Saharan Africa. This has a negative impact on 
public health, economic development and the well-being of a large portion of the population. 
Even in the two largest cities of Douala and Yaoundé (population 2 million each), the 
development of the water distribution network is limited to some neighborhoods, where the richer 
households are now concentrated, given that piped water availability drove property prices up. 
The poor and low-middle income families are essentially located in the neighborhoods without a 
distribution network, and have to obtain water either through unsafe local wells, street vendors or 
privately managed standpipes at a much higher price. 
The few poor and medium-low income families who live in areas covered by the distribution 
network usually do not have either an individual household connection, because they can not 
afford the high connection fees. They typically purchase water from neighbors who have 
individual connections, but often again at a much higher price that the tariff paid by those with a 
household connection.   
 
Reform of the national water utility and introduction of a private operator 
This situation is the direct consequence of years of mismanagement at the national public water 
utility (SNEC). Chronic poor management and governance concerns led to donors’ withdrawal, 
resulting in serious under-investment in rehabilitation and system expansion. By 2006, SNEC 
had around 220,000 customers nationwide (60% in Douala and Yaoundé), and around 6,000 new 
connections were being added every year, essentially through network extension in affluent areas 
financed by developers. This represents an annual rate of 2.7%, equivalent to the urban 
population growth rate (2.6%), which is obviously insufficient to make any impact on coverage. 
A
new management was installed at SNEC in 2003 and has so far made some significant inroads 
in improving operational and financial performance. However, the Government of Cameroon 
(GoC) was well aware that much more needs to be done to establish a viable national water 
utility that could be able to tackle the coverage challenge. Consensus was built nationally with 
support from the World Bank and other donors (AFD, EIB) for a major institutional reform, and 
the GoC decided to contract an international operator to operate the national water utility through 
a
10-year lease contract. While the operator will be entirely responsible for the operational and 
commercial management of the utility, the responsibility for most investment financing will 
remain with the Government through a state-owned created asset-holding company (Camwater) 
established in 2006 with transfer of SNEC assets.  
Although the proposed PPP model is not necessarily optimal in terms of allocation of risks and 
responsibilities, especially as it leaves most of the investment responsibility with the government 
thereby creating potential delays and coordination problems for the private operator, it has 
nonetheless proved successful in other countries in the region (Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire and 
Niger). Lessons learned from previous PPP projects were applied in the design of the Cameroon 
water lease, and the contract provides for a portion of the investment to be carried out directly by 
the private operator. The Bank will support this operation with a US$ 33 million loan from IDA 
Page  13
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 13
(P084002) which includes US$ 14.9 million for emergency investment to be executed in the first 
two years under the direct responsibility of the private operator. The lease contract also includes 
a
provision for the operator to directly execute and fund out of the tariff revenues collected, a 
portion of network investment (amounting to US$4 million per annum).. 
A
consortium of financial, legal and technical consultants was contracted by the GoC with 
World Bank funding, and financing is being arranged from a pool of donors (WB, AFD, EIB, 
China) to fund the first investment program. The tender bid for the selection of the private 
operator was launched January 2007, and two consortia submitted technical and financial offers: 
Veolia and ONEP (the state-owned water utility of Morocco). The tender was based on the 
lowest operating fee per m3 to be retained by the operator and ONEP submitted the best proposal 
with 176 CFA per m3, compared with 269 CFA per m3 for Veolia. The technical commission of 
the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in charge of the bid recommended in July 2007 the award of the 
lease contract to ONEP. The Bank’s procurement department issued a non-objection in August 
2007 and the official award to ONEP has been made through a unanimous vote by an inter-
Ministerial Committee on September 6
th
,
2007. The closing of the lease contract is now pending. 
 
A. 2. Rationale for a connection subsidy program 
 
The introduction of a private operator should bring significant improvement in the quality of 
service, including solving the problem of intermittent supply affecting large portions of the 
connected population. However, the beneficiaries of these service improvements will be those 
already connected to the network (i.e. the richer households), unless a specific program is put in 
place to make individual connections more affordable to poor and modest-income households.  
 
Demand analysis carried out during project preparation suggests that while there is a large 
unsatisfied demand for individual connections, the cost of an individual connection represented a 
major barrier for low- and middle-income households. For a typical household connection (15 
mm, 17 meters), the connection cost amounts to 96,056 CFA (US$ 198), plus 25,542 CFA (US$ 
53) as an initial guarantee deposit, giving a total of 121,598 CFA (US$ 251) to be paid upfront by 
a
new customer.  
 
Based on the figures available for average monthly income of urban households, the cost of a new 
connection can be estimated at one month income on average for the richest quintile, 3 to 4 
months of income for families in the 4
th
 and 3
rd
 quintiles, and as much as 5 to 8 months of income 
for the poorest families in the first and second quintiles. This cost is prohibitive for a large portion 
of the population, which means that unless a program is put in place to subsidize household 
connections, the expertise and efficiency brought by the private operator will not be translated 
into increased access and benefits for the majority of the population. This is confirmed by the 
experience from other Bank PPP projects in African countries such as Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire and 
Niger where the private operator was fully able to “do the job”, improving service and expanding 
the systems, but where subsidized connections programs had also to be put in place to ensure that 
the poor family could gain access to an individual connection and therefore also benefit from the 
presence of a private operator. 
 
A. 3. Rationale for GPOBA involvement 
 
GPOBA has a mandate to fund pro-poor infrastructure services through output-based subsidies, 
with special emphasis on the poorest countries and a particular interest in increasing access to 
Page  14
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 14
water in Sub-Saharan Africa. This proposed project in Cameroon does fulfill these and other 
operational criteria:   
 
a) 
explicit use (i.e. targeting) of subsidies;   
b) 
increasing accountability of service providers;  
c) 
attracting increased private participation in operations and financing;  
d) 
providing incentives for innovation and efficiency;   
e) 
enhancing sustainability; and  
f) monitoring 
of 
results. 
 
The project will make a direct and tangible contribution in achieving the water MDGs in 
Cameroon by subsidizing household connections. The introduction of a private operator shall 
significantly improve the accountability and efficiency of the national water utility, and the 
proposed project will help to strengthen the reform by ensuring that the presence of a private 
operator also benefits the poor. 
 
The private operator will have strong incentives for expanding access via the GPOBA project. 
The cost of installing new connections will be calculated on the basis of the detailed cost schedule 
included in the lease contract, which has been established following a detailed cost analysis to 
ensure full cost recovery by the private operator. The main remuneration of the private operator 
comes from water bills collection, itself dependent on the number of customers. The subsidized 
connection program will also facilitate social acceptance of the private operator during the first 
years of the lease contract, both elements which will make the proposed lease contract more 
attractive to international operators and enhance the sustainability of the PPP reform. The project 
will finance an independent auditor to verify outputs before disbursement and monitor results and 
profile of beneficiaries. 
 
Chances for replication are high after the 4-year period, as Cameroon is far from meeting the 
MDGs in water access, and a viable scheme with a private operator in place is almost certain to 
get access to further donors financing.  
 
A. 4. Coordination with sector policy and overall Bank strategy 
 
The proposed GPOBA project is fully in line with the Bank strategy in Cameroon. The first 
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) was finalized in 2003 and emphasized private sector 
development, improved governance, and improved access to infrastructure and basic services in 
line with the MDGs. Cameroon completed the negotiation for debt reduction under the Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative in April 2006, freeing up resources for development  
 
The proposed water connection subsidy project is an integral part of an Urban and Water 
Development Support (P084002) IDA loan, approved in May 2007 by the Board, following an 
Urban Economic and Sector Work (ESW) finalized in May 2004 which elaborated on the 
dialogue initiated in the PRSP. It is based on the CAS and follows the recommendation of the 
Progress Reports on the PRSP of April 2004 and February 2006 to promote participation of the 
private sector in utility services, especially for urban water supply. It also directly supports the 
GoC strategy to reduce poverty in urban areas and achieve the MDGs (target 10 for water access). 
 
Page  15
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 15
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
B.1. Project development objective and key indicators  
 
The objective of the project is to improve piped-water access for the urban population of 
Cameroon by adding 55,000 new household to the urban water supply system, equivalent to a 
population of 330,000 gaining access to pipe water.  
 
Key indicators:
 
The main development objective of increased access will be measured by the 
number of new individual household connections added to the system via the subsidy scheme. 
 
B. 2. Project design 
B. 2. 1. Subsidy amount & structure 
 
Subsidy amount & structure
:
The connection fee for new customers was modified in September 2007 by Presidential decree, in 
a
first attempt by the government to alleviate the access affordability problem for the population. 
While the connection fee was previously set to cover the full cost of installation of a new 
connection, this fee was reduced by half in September 2007, meaning that the connection cost 
represents now around twice the connection fee
4
.
Under the lease contract, Camwater is 
responsible for covering the difference
5
between the connection cost (as calculated in the 
contractual price schedule) to be received by the private operator, and the connection fee (as 
established in the users’ tariff structure) to be paid by the new customer. This means that the 
Government is now subsidizing via Camwater around 50% of the connection cost. 
 
The GPOBA program will complement this reduction of connection fees, financed by Camwater, 
by subsidizing the remaining portion of the connection fee. The connection fee to be paid by each 
new customer is directly linked to the connection length. Two guiding principles were applied in 
the design of the subsidy structure: (i) ensuring ownership by the beneficiaries, by having a 
portion of the connection fee still at the charge of each household, and (ii) discouraging the 
installation of connections of excessive length. The following subsidy structure will apply: 
i. 
The GPOBA program will contribute up to a maximum of 44,000 CFA (91 US$ 
equivalent) for each newly connected household (6 persons per household). 
ii. 
Each newly connected household will be responsible for paying at least 10% of the 
connection fee (equivalent to 5% of connection cost), plus the initial deposit. 
iii. 
The maximum OBA subsidy of 44,000 CFA corresponds to a connection of 17.67 
meters, and a connection fee of around 48,880 CFA of which 4,880 CFA (10% of 
total) would be paid by the beneficiary household. 
iv. 
For smaller connections, the OBA subsidy payment will be reduced prorata so that 
10% of the connection fee is still paid by the beneficiary household. 
4
50% approximately since the calculation formula for the connection cost in the price schedule annexed to 
the lease contract, is different from the tariff formula for the calculation of the connection fee (the formula 
for the connection fee including more parameters). 
5
It is important to keep in mind that, under the lease contract, the tariff structure applied to customers is not 
linked from the operator remuneration
[0]
 
Page  16
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 16
v. 
For longer connections, beneficiary household will receive only 44,000 CFA, and 
will be responsible for paying the rest of the amount due for the connection fee. This 
means that more than 10% of the connection fee (5% of the total connection cost) 
will be the responsibility of the end user. 
 
The following table shows the connection cost and connection fee for 4 different connection 
lengths, and the amount and proportion to be paid respectively by Camwater, GPOBA and the 
beneficiary household under the proposed program. The graph which follows presents the 
evolution of the total connection depending on the length of connection, and the 3 sources of 
funding: Camwater, GPOBA and beneficiary household. It illustrates the fact that the amount to 
be paid by beneficiary households will increase significantly with the length of the connection. 
The amount of Camwater funding will also increase although it will remain in proportion at half 
of the total cost. GPOBA contribution will be capped at 44,000 CFA, corresponding to around 
45% of the cost of a 17-meter connection but much less for longer connection. 
 
In CFA 
(US$) 
12 meters 
15 meters 
17 meters 
20 meters 
25 meters 
Connection cost
83,756 
(US$ 173) 
91,136 
(US$ 188) 
96,056 
(US$ 198) 
103,436 
(US$ 213) 
115,736 
(US$ 239) 
Camwater 
contribution 
%
connection cost
41,878 
 
50 % 
45,568 
 
50 % 
48,028 
 
50 % 
51,718 
 
50 % 
57,868 
 
50 % 
Connection fee
41,878 
(US$ 86) 
45,568 
(US$ 94) 
48,028 
(US$ 99) 
51,718 
(US$ 107) 
57,868 
(US$ 119) 
GPOBA 
 
%
connection cost 
%
connection fee
37,690 
(US$ 78) 
45 % 
90 % 
41,011 
(US$ 85) 
45 % 
90 % 
43,225 
(US$ 89) 
45 % 
90 % 
44,000 
(US$ 91) 
40 % 
45 % 
44,000 
(US$ 91) 
40 % 
45 % 
Household share of 
connection cost/fee 
 
%
connection cost 
%
connection fee
4,188 
(US$ 8) 
5
%
10 % 
4,557 
(US$ 9) 
5
%
10 % 
4,803 
(US$ 10) 
5
%
10 % 
7,718 
(US$ 16) 
7
%
15 % 
13,868 
(US$ 28) 
12 % 
24 % 
Table 1: Connection cost, connection fee and source of funds for 5 different connection lengths 
 
Page  17
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 17
Connection cost (CFA) and sources of fund 
by connection length (meters
)
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
1011121314
15
1617181920
2122
23
2425
Household
OBA subsidy
Camwater
Graph 1: Connection cost (excluding initial deposit) and Sources of funding, depending on 
connection length 
 
As illustrated above, the relative proportion of funding for connection costs between Camwater, 
GPOBA and the beneficiary household will vary according to the length of each connection. Up 
to a length of 17.67 meters this will be respectively 50% for Camwater, 45% for GPOBA and 5% 
for the beneficiary household. The household’ contribution will increase with the length of the 
connection, representing as much as 12% of connection costs for a 25-meter connections. 
 
Under the proposed program, the upfront disbursement to be made by each beneficiary will be 
comprised of two items: its share of connection cost and an initial deposit on advance 
consumption. We analyze the affordability of this amount in the chapter below. 
B. 2. 2. Other design components 
 
Eligibility criteria:
 domestic connections (15 mm diameter or less) for new household customers 
of the national water utility, excluding those using new network expansions financed by third 
parties (real estate developers). Also explicitly excluded from the scope of the program is the 
financing of the replacement of connections of already existing customers which are regularly 
registered in the customer database, and carried out as part of network rehabilitation. 
 
Responsibilities:
 Although the nominal recipient of the GPOBA grant will be the asset-holding 
company Camwater (which is the legal concessionaire of the system), the responsibility for 
implementing the proposed project has been entirely transferred to the private operator, acting as 
service provider under the terms of annex 12 to the lease contract. Under this two-layer structure, 
both Camwater and the service provider (via the lease contract) remain accountable, but 
implementation risks are significantly reduced compared to a situation without a private operator.   
 
Incentives
 
framework
:
the private operator will have strong incentives under the lease contract 
to implement efficiently the proposed connection subsidy program: 
·
For installing new connection, connection costs specified in the price schedule which was 
attached to the lease contract prior to the bid was based on a detailed market study, and 
ensures full cost recovery.  
Page  18
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 18
·
For service provision, its remuneration is based on the combination of a fixed fee of 176 
CFA per m3 (US$ 0.36 per m3) plus a fixed fee per customer (around US$ 3 per month), 
independent of the customer’s tariff category and consumption level. This remuneration 
structure ensures that the private operator can achieve adequate O&M cost recovery even 
for small consumptions. Given the presence of significant fixed costs in its overall cost 
structure, the private operator will have a strong incentive to rapidly expand the customer 
base (the proposed program shall result in a 25% increase in the number of customers in 
4
years) in order to improve the overall profitability of the lease contract.  
Affordability
:
The table below provides an illustration of the affordability of subsidized water 
connections, depending on the level of income of beneficiaries, based on the upfront payment to 
be made by a new residential customer for a 17-meter connection (including the connection fee 
plus the initial deposit of 25,542 CFA). This total upfront payment was 121,598 CFA before the 
September 2007 connection fee reduction, including installation costs of 96,056 CFA plus initial 
deposit. Since the September 2007 connection fee reduction, this upfront payment is now 73,570 
CFA, and under the proposed GPOBA program it would be lowered to 30,345 CFA. 
 
in CFA 
1
st
 quintile 
(poorest 
20%) 
2
nd
 quintile 
3
rd
 quintile 
4
th
 quintile 
5
th
 quintile 
(richest 
20%) 
Average monthly urban 
household income 
15,225 
(US$31) 
24,675 
(US$51) 
33,075 
(US$68) 
45,675 
(US$94) 
120,750 
(US$249) 
Current situation in terms 
of access to piped water 
Not 
connected 
Not 
connected 
Only a small 
portion 
connected 
Mostly 
connected 
Almost all 
connected 
Number of month of income to cover connection cost plus initial deposit for households: 
Before September 07:  
Full connection fee  
8.0 4.9 3.7 2.7 1.00 
Since September 07: 
Reduced connection fee  
4.8 3.0 2.2 1.6 0.61 
With GPOBA program  
2.0 
1.2 
0.9 
0.7 
0.25 
For a beneficiary household under the GPOBA program, the total upfront payment for a 
residential connection will represent close to one month of income for households in the 3
rd
 and 
4
th
 income quintiles, and two months of income for the poorest households in the 5
th
 quintile.  
The Bank has gathered considerable experience on the affordability of subsidized water 
connection programs in the region (Senegal, Burkina, Niger), whose key lessons are: 
·
Most households in the second and third income quintile are typically willing to pay this 
share of their income to get access to an individual water connection (for instance in 
Senegal 80% of the urban population is now connected to piped water via an individual 
connection); 
·
Typically the poorest households belonging to the first income quintile are not interested 
in an individual connection
6
,
but prefer to get water from a community standpipe.   
6
Their earnings tends to be irregular and they are not interested in a monthly subscription with a utility 
requiring regular monthly payments at fixed periods. 
Page  19
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 19
Based on the above, it is expected that most of the GPOBA program will benefit households 
belonging to the second and third income quintiles. It is important to highlight that these are poor 
households, with a total monthly income per family of between around US$ 51 to 68, equivalent 
to less than US$ 0.40 per person per day (based on 6 persons per household). In fact, even for 
households in the 4
th
 income quintile, the average income per person is still only around half a US 
dollar per day. 
Regarding the poorest quintile, improving access for them will be provided under the IDA loan 
which includes the construction of 1,200 community fountains, so that even those who can not 
afford to become regular customers of the water utility will still gain access to safe pipe water as 
defined under the “improved access” criteria of the MDGs. 
B.3. Economic and financial analysis 
 
B.3.1 Economic analysis:
 The economic analysis of the project is based on the standard 
methodology for calculation of Net Present Value (NPV) and economic Internal Rate of Return 
(E-IRR), using a “with and without GPOBA subsidy” scenario.   
 
The analysis has been done for 55,000 household connections. Household consumption and 
expenditure are based on primary information on demand and willingness to pay for improved 
access to water supply services.  Costs include the costs of investments for increasing access to 
target households and the associated incremental operation and maintenance costs.  
 
Economic benefits are confined to expenditure savings, time savings as a result of lower 
collection and wait time, and health savings in the form of adult productive days gained and 
reduced patient treatment costs. While expenditure savings are based on the change in 
consumption and expenditure patterns of target households due to improved water services; time 
savings and adult productive days gained are based on the project team’s estimates. Reduced 
patient treatment costs are valued based on adjusted World Health Organization (WHO)
7
estimates. The methodology assumes one productive adult wage earner per household and 
minimum wages as the opportunity cost of time. The minimum wage is also adjusted downward 
for the high proportion of self and low-wage contractual employment among target households. 
 
The economic Net Present Value (E-NPV) of the project is US$ 22,719,394 and the economic 
Internal Rate of Return (E-IRR) is 46 % percent. The E-IRR is 12 percent with only expenditure 
savings taken into account. It increases to 43 percent when time savings are added and to 46 
percent with value of health benefits added. As a percentage of total benefits, expenditure savings 
account for 4 percent, time savings for about 89 percent and health benefits for 7 percent. The 
analysis uses a 12 percent discount rate and the useful life of the project is assumed 15 years. 
 
B.3.2 Financial Analysis:  
 
The financial analysis takes into account the investment costs for connecting the 55,000 
households and operating costs that are directly linked to the increased access to services.  
 
7
Guy Hutton and Laurence Haller, Water, Sanitation and Health Protection of the Human Environment, 
Evaluation of the Costs and Benefits of Water and Sanitation Improvements at the Global Level, World 
Health Organization, Geneva 2004. 
 
Page  20
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 20
The OBA subsidy accounts for 45 percent and user contributions for about 5 percent of the total 
investment costs. The project has a financial IRR of 5 percent without the subsidy and 16 percent 
with the OBA subsidy.  
 
No. of 
Households 
E-IRR E-NPV 
% Benefits 
(Expenditure)
%
Benefits  
(Time) 
%
Benefits 
(Health) 
55,000 
46% 
$ 22, 719, 394 
6% 
87% 
7% 
The economic analysis demonstrates clearly the social benefits of the subsidy, with expenditure 
and health benefits constituting a relatively smaller than time benefits. Most of the economic 
benefits will therefore go to women and children, who are the one who spend time fetching water. 
 
B.4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
 
·
From other subsidized connection programs in the region
:
lessons from social connection 
programs in 
Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire, Niger and Burkina Faso have shown that it is highly 
desirable that the beneficiary customer still contributes a sizeable proportion of the new 
connection cost. Otherwise there is a risk that a significant number of connections be installed 
but not be put to use, or are rapidly disconnected thereafter. The level of upfront payment to 
be required to beneficiary households will be comparable to those applied in similar IDA-
funded connection subsidy projects in the region, as it appears to provide a proper balance 
between ensuring affordability and sufficient ownership by beneficiaries. 
·
From lease contracts in developing countries
:
The separation of responsibilities between 
the asset-holding company, in charge of investment, and the private operator can result in 
significant coordination problems for system rehabilitation and expansion. In the case of the 
proposed project this could result in delays for major civil works preventing the connection of 
new users. The design of the lease contract incorporates important elements to mitigate this 
risk, with a US$ 14.9 million loan from the Bank to finance emergency work during the first 
2
years that will be entirely under the responsibility of the private operator. In addition, the 
private operator has been made throughout the duration of the contract responsible for a 
portion of the rehabilitation work (US$ 4 million per year), financed directly via a portion of 
the user tariffs collected. 
 
B.5. Alternatives considered and rejected   
 
·
Pre-financing risk
:
while it would have been preferable to have the private operator, as 
service provider, to take the pre-financing risk for the new connection (US$ 0.8 million 
necessary to set up the revolving fund), the project team concluded from discussions with the 
pre-qualified bidders that this would not be possible in the current market conditions. As 
several international private water operators are withdrawing from most developing countries, 
only Veolia among the “traditional” player expressed interest in the tender while the other 
prequalified companies (Suez and SAUR) declined. It was thanks to the arrival of ONEP, the 
state-owned water utility from Morocco which is embarking on a regional expansion, that a 
truly competitive bid with two bidders could be conducted
8
.
Underscoring the difficulties of 
8
The tender was in fact “truly” competitive as Veolia initiated procedures to cancel ONEP financial bid, 
including writing to the Bank procurement department, which ruled that the complain was unfounded. 
Page  21
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 21
current market conditions, it is important to note that the Cameroon lease contract shall be the 
only major water utility PPP awarded in 2007 in an IDA country to an international operator.  
·
OBA payment structure
:
The option to use a simpler calculation for the OBA subsidy, with 
for instance a lump sum identical for all connections, was considered but discarded. Practice 
in Cameroon has been to install household connections for large lengths, sometimes up to 30 
meters, even though this is unadvisable as it tends to increase water leakages and the risk of 
future illegal connections. To create a disincentive for installing large connections, the OBA 
payment system as outlined in B.2.1 “Subsidy amount and structure” was made so that the 
extra cost of large connections would not be financed by GPOBA but by the households. 
·
Fixed monthly users’ payment
:
the project team involved in the design of the lease contract 
had initially considered to reduce the fixed monthly payment for small consumers, in an 
attempt to increase consumption affordability for the poor. This option however was not 
recommended by the Expert Panel during the PCN review since it would have reduced the 
cost-recovery level, and hence created a potential disincentive for the private operator to 
serve the poor
.
Following this line of thought, the remuneration structure of the private 
operator was also modified compared to previous Bank-led lease contracts in Senegal and 
Niger, by adding the fixed monthly fee to the operator remuneration (which typically already 
included remuneration per m3 billed and collected). This shall ensure that service provision 
for small consumers is based on full cost recovery and that the private operator has sufficient 
financial incentives to serve them. 
·
Funds management
:
implementation of the proposed subsidy program via a formal trust 
fund was discarded due to legal and administrative complexities of setting up and managing 
such a fund in Cameroon. The opening of a dedicated Bank account by Camwater, to be 
managed directly under the operator, was chosen instead as a simple and practical solution. 
·
Targeting:
 the project team carefully reviewed options for targeting, and chose to make the 
subsidy available to all household connections of small diameter, except for the case of new 
housing developments financed by third parties. This solution was chosen due to the absence 
of data at national level on which to base a better targeting scheme, and the fact that rich 
households are already connected and concentrated in the urban areas already covered by the 
water network. While the system expansion might modify over time the geographical 
repartition of households, this should take several years and the monitoring of social profile 
of beneficiaries included the project will help improve targeting in the next phase. 
 
C. IMPLEMENTATION 
1. Milestones for project implementation 
 
Disbursement period
:
4
years 
 
The disbursement period has been set to match the capacity of the private operator and Camwater 
to expand the systems in parallel, thereby allowing for the connection of 55,000 new households. 
During the first 18 months of private operation, it is expected that the new connections will take 
place mostly in urban areas already covered by the network, or at its immediate periphery, for 
those households which could not previously afford an individual connection (such as those 
currently buying from a neighbor). It is estimated that between 12,000 to 15,000 additional 
connections can be done with the current network infrastructure, the rest depending on future 
system expansion to be funded by donors (WB, AFD and EIB). 
Page  22
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 22
 
Table 6: Key Milestones  
Activities 
Indicative Schedule 
GPOBA provides subsidy commitment endorsement
9
September 2007 
Project design and documentation finalized, including Grant Agreement 
October 2007 
Documentation to government for review 
October 2007 
Signature of GPOBA Grant Agreement 
November 2007 
The private operator initiates operation 
December 2007 
Project implementation begins 
January 2008 
Contracting of Independent Verification Agent 
February 2008 
GPOBA disbursement begins 
April 2008 
Mid-Term Review 
January 2010 
GPOBA Subsidy disbursement (all tenders) ends 
December 2011 
2. Partnership arrangements  
 
No other international agencies are financing this project. 
 
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements   
 
The relationships between the parties to this project are governed by the lease contract between 
Camwater and the private operator. The responsibilities are as follows: 
·
Private operator: implementation of program including collection of users fee, management 
of the dedicated bank account of the Subsidized Connection Fund (SCF) and bookkeeping, 
installation of connection and opening of new customer account; 
·
Camwater: establishing the SCF, contracting of the Independent Verification Agent, ex-post 
supervision of the program; 
·
GPOBA/World Bank: Assistance in development of the overall project concept, and 
financing for consultancy assistance and investment subsidy. 
 
Camwater will establish the SCF by opening a dedicated Bank account with an initial apportation 
of 400 million CFA (around US$0.8 million). The responsibility for managing the SCF and 
corresponding bank account will be delegated to the private operator. The private operator is also 
responsible for installing the new connections and providing the corresponding water supply 
service in accordance with standards established in the lease contract. 
 
Whenever an eligible household submits a request for a new connection, the private operator will 
issue the corresponding invoices, with one portion to be paid by the beneficiary and the rest 
charged to the SCF based on the Price Schedule included in the lease contract.  
 
Starting from the end of the 3
rd
 month following the launch of the program, an Independent 
Verification Agent will validate that the water connections charged to the SCF have been 
physically installed and are in working condition. Based on this report, GPOBA and Camwater 
9
Approval subject to funding availability.  
Page  23
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 23
will replenish the SCF with the corresponding amount as defined in the Subsidy formula (for 
GPOBA) and Price Schedule (for Camwater). Camwater will also be responsible for funding any 
gap that may arise due to the impact of exchange rate variation on the value in CFA of the 
GPOBA grant, based on budget submitted by the private operator.  
 
4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
The outputs of the project upon which GPOBA subsidies will be disbursed are new household 
connections meeting the eligibility criteria. 
 
Each output will be certified by an Independent Verification Agent (see above), appointed by 
Camwater
 (with a “no objection” from GPOBA) as per the Project Operational Manual and 
related agreements.   
 
For the financial monitoring of the SCF, the private operator will provide at the end of each 
month a detailed report on the operations of the dedicated bank account, together with a list of the 
new connections installed and corresponding use of the SCF. 
 
In addition to verifying that the new connections have been physically installed and are 
functioning on a sample basis (minimum 7% on quarterly basis), the Independent Verification 
Agent will document the socio-economical profile of each beneficiary household. A mid-term 
review report will be produced analyzing the beneficiary profile, in order to verify whether there 
was any significant portion going to affluent households (4
th
 and 5
th
 income quintiles), and if that 
was the case propose appropriate adjustments in the eligibility criteria. 
 
5.  Sustainability 
 
Sustainability has been factored into the project design in several ways: 
·
Subsidies are one-off investment subsidies, and not for consumption 
·
The GoC through Camwater will contribute 50% of the cost of the subsidized 
connections under the program; 
·
There will be significant contribution from beneficiary users to guarantee that new 
connections are financed and installed only if there is real user demand; 
·
The private operator has strong incentives to install the new connections and expand its 
customer base. Its remuneration for new connection will cover the cost of civil work, and 
operating fee plus monthly payment shall cover marginal O&M even for small 
households; 
·
The private operator will be able to execute directly US$ 14.9 million of emergency civil 
work funded by IDA during the first two years, as well as US$ 4 million every year of 
network investment funded by tariff collection; 
·
The IDA loan supporting the lease contract includes US$ 2.55 million to finance the 
Camwater coordinating unit, including staff, operating costs, training, monitoring, and 
technical and financial audits. 
 
Page  24
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 24
6. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects  
 
There are a series of risks associated with this proposed GPOBA project. The following table 
outlines sources of potential risk and seeks to offer mechanisms for managing those risks
Risk 
 
Rating and Mitigation 
Lease contract not reaching closure. 
Low
.
The technical commission of GoC 
recommended award to ONEP and the Bank 
procurement department gave no-objection. On 
September 6
th
,
2007
an inter-ministerial 
committee approved unanimously the award of 
the lease contract to ONEP 
Lease contract getting into crisis during the 
implementation frame of the project. 
Moderate
.
Of all the developing regions, Sub-
Saharan Africa is the one which has seen the 
highest rate of water PPP cancellation. However 
the rate of PPP cancellation has been much lower 
for leases which appears well suited to the 
institutional framework of Francophone countries 
and for which the rate of success is high (Senegal, 
Cote d’Ivoire, and Niger). The Cameroon PPP is 
an important “window” project for ONEP and 
high commitment can be expected from its 
management and staff to make it work. In addition 
the design of the Cameroon lease incorporates a 
series of lessons from earlier projects. 
Limited experience of the private operator 
affecting project implementation and 
outputs. 
Low
.
Although this will be the first time ONEP 
operates water services outside of its home 
country, its track record of operating urban water 
systems in Morocco is good. In addition ONEP 
already has experience of OBA approaches in 
Morocco. 
Problems with civil works for system 
expansion resulting in delays for expanding 
the customer base. 
Moderate
.
The project team estimated that more 
than 15,000 connections could already be made 
based on current system capacity. The presence of 
experienced donors (WB, EIB and AFD) should 
mitigate the risk of civil work problems. The 4-
year disbursement period has been set to allow for 
possible delays in civil work in the first two years 
of the contract. Financing of the Camwater 
coordinating unit via the IDA loan should also 
reduce the risk of Camwater non performance.  
Insufficient demand from household due to 
upfront connection payment still too 
expensive 
Low. 
The
 
upfront payment to be made by a 
beneficiary household under the program has been 
set at comparable level to already successful 
subsidized connection programs in the region 
(Senegal, Burkina, Niger). The overall experience 
if that most households are willing to contribute 
one month of their income in exchange of getting 
Page  25
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 25
a
water connection, which represent a major 
improvement in lodging conditions (and property 
value).  
Significant portion of the GPOBA program 
not benefiting poor households.  
Moderate.
 Most of the household belonging to 
the richer income quintile are already connected. 
Most of the new connection shall benefit 
households in the 2
n
d
and 3
r
d
income quintile, as 
well as some households from the 4
th
 income 
quintile. In all 3 cases these will be poor families 
with daily revenue per person of between US$ 
0.30 to 0.50 only. As for the poorest household 
who might not afford a subsidized connection, 
they will still benefit under the program as the 
IDA-loan shall fund at least 1,200 community 
standpipes.
 
Newly installed connection not in use or 
being disconnected after a short period. 
Low.
 The fact that each beneficiary household 
will still be required to make a significant initial 
lump-sum payment shall ensure that only 
motivated households join the program.  
Governance issue with respect to GPOBA 
funds management. 
Low
.
The SCF will be directly managed by the 
private operator. Disbursement from SCF will be 
authorized by Camwater, after appropriate 
verification and GPOBA disbursement will take 
place only after certification by Independent 
Verification Agent. The IDA loan component to 
support Camwater coordinating unit will also 
include the funding of financial audits 
Page  26
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 26
 
Annex 1.  Project Costs Schedule 
Component 
Local 
US$ million 
Govt./Users 
Foreign 
US$ million 
GPOBA 
Total 
US$ million 
Civil works: 
Connection costs
$6,500,000 
 
$5,000,000 
 
$11,500,000 
Consulting services : 
Independent verification agent 
(including midterm targeting review)
$250,000 
$250,000 
Project supervision
:
Bank/GPOBA supervision
 
$100,000 
 
$100,000 
TOTAL
$
5,750,000 $ 
5,350,000  $11,850,000 
A
disbursement schedule is presented in Section 3 of Annex 3. 
Page  27
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 27
 
Annex 2:  Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements 
 
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment 
 
A
comprehensive of financial management and disbursement arrangements for both Camwater 
and the prospective private operator was carried out as part of the preparation of the IDA loan 
(Urban and Water Development Support Project, P084002) whose component 3 will support the 
first years of implementation of the lease contract. One portion of the US$ 33 million IDA loan 
for this component (subcomponent 3.3, US$ 14.2 million) will be executed for civil works 
executed by Camwater as assets-holding agency, the other portion (subcomponent 3.2, US$ 14.9 
million) will be executed directly by the private operator. It was assessed that the overall risks 
related to financial management and disbursements were moderate, mostly due to Camwater 
limited capacity, and a comprehensive financial management strengthening program (US$ 2.55 
million) was designed and will be financed by the IDA loan. Annex 7 of the PAD for the Urban 
and Water Development Support Project (P084002) provides details on financial and 
disbursement arrangements. 
 
The GPOBA program will be implemented by the private operator, which will directly manage 
the Subsidy Connection Fund (SCF) and its dedicated bank account, with ex-post supervision by 
Camwater.  GPOBA will disburse only after certification of the outputs by an independent 
verification agent. Under these agreed implementation arrangements, the financial management 
arrangements of the GPOBA program are considered adequate. 
 
2. Risk Analysis 
 
A
Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) was 
conducted and issued in June 2006. It identified substantial shortcomings and fiduciary risks in 
GoC procedures. As for SNEC, the national water utility predecessor to Camwater, its poor track 
record in term of governance had led to the exit of all international donors from the water sector. 
Since the reform of the urban water sector started in 2003, a new management has been put in 
place in Camwater and significant progress achieved. The confidence of donors in the new 
institutional scheme, with an international private operator in charge of operating the services, is 
underwritten by the support of various IFIs (including the World Bank, EIB and AFD) which will 
finance the next 5 years of investments under the lease contract. The comprehensive financial 
management and accounting strengthening program to be financed under the IDA loan, and 
whose gradual implementation is a condition of effectiveness for disbursement, shall significantly 
mitigate the risks related to Camwater limited experience and capacity. 
 
The fact that the GPOBA program will be directly under the responsibility of the private operator 
ONEP shall considerably reduce the risks related to financial management. The lease contract 
follows international best-practices for reporting and monitoring, with an independent and 
qualified international consulting firm contracted to assist the GoC in monitoring the private 
operator’s compliance with the lease contract. The CSF has been designed as a dedicated bank 
account to facilitate tracking, with strict reporting requirements specified in annex 12 of the lease 
contract. ONEP has already experience with implementing a GPOBA connection subsidy 
program in Morocco (city of Meknes). Its familiarity with the GPOBA concept, as well as 
knowledge of monitoring and reporting requirements, shall greatly facilitate the financial 
management aspect of the program. 
Page  28
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 28
 
With the incorporation of the Financial Management Strengthening Program for Camwater 
supported by the IDA loan, the overall project risk for financial management is rated as 
“Average”. 
 
3. Implementation Arrangement 
 
The relationships between the parties to this project are governed by the lease contract between 
Camwater and the private operator. The responsibilities are as follows: 
·
Private operator: implementation of program including collection of user fees, management 
of the dedicated bank account of the Connection Fund and bookkeeping, installation of 
connection and opening of new customer account 
·
Camwater: establishing the Subsidized Connection Fund (SCF), contracting of the 
Independent Verification Agent, ex-post supervision of the program, replenishing of the SCF 
every trimester. 
·
GPOBA/World Bank: Assistance in development of the overall project concept, and 
financing for consultancy assistance and investment subsidy. 
 
Camwater will establish the SCF by opening a dedicated Bank account with an initial apportation 
of 400 million CFA (around US$ 0.8 million). The responsibility for managing the SCF and 
corresponding bank account will be delegated to the private operator. The private operator is also 
responsible for installing the new connections and providing the corresponding water supply 
service in accordance with standards established in the lease contract. 
 
Whenever an eligible household submits a request for new connection, the private operator will 
issue the corresponding invoices, with one portion to be paid by the beneficiary and the rest 
charged to the SCF based on the Price Schedule included in the lease contract.  
 
Starting from the end of the 3
rd
 month following the launch of the program, an Independent 
Verification Agent will validate that the water connections charged to the SCF have been 
physically installed and are in working condition. Based on this report, GPOBA and Camwater 
will jointly replenish on a quarterly basis the SCF with the corresponding amount as defined in 
the Subsidy formula (for GPOBA) and Price Schedule (for Camwater). Camwater will also be 
responsible for funding any gap that may arise due to the impact of exchange rate variation on the 
value in CFA of the GPOBA grant, based on budget submitted by the private operator.  
 
The following diagram summarizes the flow of funds: 
 
Page  29
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 29
 
4. Staffing 
 
The private operator will bring experienced staff from ONEP in Morocco to manage the water 
services in Cameroon under the lease contract. The capacity of ONEP
’s human resources was 
assessed through the technical evaluation during the tender, and was deemed fully satisfactory. 
 
Regarding Camwater, the Financial Management Strengthening program financed by the IDA 
loan will include the contracting of qualified staff including at least a financial management 
specialist and an accountant in charge of project management. The selection of the financial 
management specialist, trained in Bank procedures and systems, is a condition of effectiveness of 
the loan. Intensive training will be provided to Camwater staff concerning the Bank policy and 
procedures on financial management and disbursement arrangements.  
 
5. Accounting Policy and Procedure 
 
The project will follow the accounting procedures outlined in Annex 7 of the PAD for the Urban 
and Water Development Support Project (P084002). This includes an Internal Controls and 
Financial Management Manual (FMM), whose finalization and approval by the Bank is a 
condition of effectiveness of the IDA loan.  The FMM will describe in details the accounting 
system and procedures to be followed including fund flows processes, accounting records and 
supporting documents, financial reporting processes and budgeting, monitoring procedures, 
procedures for replenishment of the SCF dedicated account, and auditing arrangements. 
 
Dedicated accounting software will also be installed by Camwater, with its selection following 
non-objection by the project team’s financial management specialist. 
Initi
al SCF funding plus 
periodic reple
nishment 
Per
iodic replenishment 
(OBA based) 
Private operator ONEP 
2: ONEP w
ithdraw funds to install connection
Beneficiary household 
1: Household  pays 
10% fee contribution 
and initial deposit
3: 
ONEP install new 
connection
Subsidized connection 
Fund (SCF) 
Camwater
GPOBA 
Page  30
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 30
 
6. Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangement 
 
Allocation of GPOBA Proceeds:
 GPOBA proceeds of US$ 5.25 million will be disbursed over a 
4-year period.  Disbursement will be against the following expenditure categories: OBA subsidies 
for households water connections ($5.0 million) and 
Consultants’ Services ($250,000) (please see 
disbursement schedule in Annex 3). 
 
Subsidy Payment: 
Disbursement will be based on reimbursements
.
The payment of GPOBA 
subsidy will be done at the end of every trimester, following the submission of a detailed report 
prepared by Camwater (as nominal recipient of the grant) of the new connections installed under 
the program, based on information submitted by the private operator with a non-objection by the 
Independent Verification Agent (IVA). 
 
For each new eligible connection requested by a household, the private operator will establish an 
invoice detailing the connection fee, with the corresponding amounts to be paid by the 
prospective beneficiary. Based on the subsidy structure outlined in Annex 12 of the lease 
contract, as well as the pricing schedule, included in the lease contract, the private operator after 
collecting the beneficiary household contribution will draw the remnants of funds from the SCF 
in order to finance the installation of the connection. 
 
Designated Account: 
The SCF will be managed via a dedicated bank account, opened by 
Camwater but managed directly by the private operator. All documentation on the movements on 
the SCF bank account, as well as expenditures submitted for disbursement, shall be retained at the 
implementing unit and shall be made available to the auditor for audit and to the Bank and its 
representatives if requested. 
 
7. Independent Verification Agent & project targeting assessment 
 
The GPOBA grant will fund an Independent Verification Agent (IVA) throughout the 
implementation of the project.  
 
The IVA will validate outputs on a quarterly basis before payment by GPOBA, verifying that: (i) 
the new connections claimed have been installed and are in working conditions, and (ii) the 
corresponding beneficiaries were eligible according to the criteria of the GPOBA program. 
 
In addition, the IVA will also be responsible for collecting socio-economical information on all 
households benefiting from a connection installed under the subsidy program. Based on this 
information, the IVA shall prepare a mid-term assessment of the program at the end of year 2, 
with the objective of establishing a socio-economical profile of beneficiaries, and assess whether 
the current eligibility criteria need reinforcement to ensure that only low and modest-income 
households benefit from the subsidy program. 
 
8. Financial Reporting Arrangements 
 
As part of the Financial Reporting Arrangements of IDA project P084002, Camwater will be 
responsible for the quarterly preparation of submission of Interim Financial Reports (IFR), in 
accordance with the FMM. This IFR shall include in a specialized annex all information 
regarding the implementation of the connection subsidy program, and corresponding movements 
of the SCF dedicated bank account. The format of the IFR shall be finalized with the country 
financial management specialist, with its SCF annex subject to non-objection by GPOBA.  
Page  31
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 31
 
9. Audit Arrangement 
 
The auditing procedures outlined by Annex 7 of the PAD of IDA project P084002 shall apply to 
the GPOBA project. Audits reports including a special annex dedicated to the GPOBA program 
shall be prepared and submitted to GPOBA within 6 months after the end of each financial year. 
 
Page  32
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 32
Annex 3. Procurement 
1. General 
 
Procurement for the proposed project shall
 be carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s 
“Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 revised October 
1, 2006; and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
dated May 2004 revised October 1, 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement.  
The various items under different expenditure categories are described in general below. 
 
Output-Based connections:
 
The installation of all new water connections to be financed by the 
program will be carried out by the private operator, as established under the lease contract. The 
private operator was competitively selected in accordance with World Bank guidelines, with non-
objection by the Bank’s procurement department. The lease contract includes a price schedule 
outlining how much the private operator should receive for each new water connection installed, 
which was known therefore by prospective bidders before submitting their financial proposal. 
The price schedule has been established following a detailed market study carried out by the 
transaction advisers in late 2006, using benchmarking from other countries in the region as well 
as quotes from suppliers. The lease contract provides for periodic revision of the price schedule 
based on market benchmarks, to ensure that the remuneration of the private operator for each new 
connection installed is based on full cost recovery. 
 
In accordance with Bank’s Operational Memorandum from James Adams, Vice President and 
Head of Network Operations Policy and Country Services (OPCS), dated November 7, 2005: 
“Application of paragraph 3.13 of the Procurement Guidelines to Cases involving Incumbent 
Concessionaires”, 
and since the incumbent private operator was competitively selected under a 
procurement procedure acceptable to the Bank, the private operator will be using its own 
procurement methods and documents for goods, works and services to be performed as part of the 
project.
 
Selection of Consultants:
 
A
budget of US$ 250,000 has been allocated for the contracting of the 
Independent Verification Agent, whose contract will run through the 4-year duration of the 
project. The firm will not only carry out the certification of each new water connections before 
payment of the GPOBA subsidy, but will also build a socio-economical profile of all beneficiary 
households and conduct a mid-term assessment of targeting efficiency. The consulting firm shall 
be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method, using 
the Bank’s 
Standard Request for Proposals. 
 
2. Assessment of the agency’s capacity to implement procurement  
 
The selection of the private operator under the 10-year lease contract has already been completed, 
the contract being awarded to ONEP from Morocco following non-objection by the Bank in 
September 2007. 
 
As part of the preparation of the IDA loan, an analysis of the procurement capacity of Camwater 
was carr
ied out, and a risk assessment rating of “high” was made due to the lack of financial 
management procedures, lack of experience in World Bank procurement procedures, and lack of 
efficient filing system. A comprehensive financial management strengthening program will be 
financed by the IDA loan. 
 
Page  33
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 33
Since the private operator has already been selected under a transparent international tender 
process, and the only responsibility of Camwater for procurement under the project shall be the 
selection of the Independent Verification Agent, the overall assessment of procurement risk of the 
GPOBA project is rated as “Average”. 
 
3. Disbursement Plan  
 
The table below outlines the estimated disbursement under the GPOBA grant for the 4 years of 
implementation of the program. 
 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Total 
Connection 
subsidies 
750,000  1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 5,000,000 
Independent 
Verification Agent 
50,000 100,000
*
50,000 50,000 250,000 
Total 
800,000  1,350,000 1,200,000 1,600,000 5,250,000 
*
additional cost in year 2  corresponding to mid-term review 
 
The disbursement plan will be updated by Camwater on a six-monthly basis or as required to 
reflect the actual project implementation. 
 
Page  34
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 34
 
Annex 4.  Safeguards - Environment & Social Issues (OP/BP 4.01) 
 
Analysis of the potential impact of the proposed GPOBA program was carried out as part of the 
overall safeguards evaluation of the IDA-funded Urban and Water Development Support Project 
(P084002). The proposed GPOBA operation was specifically included within Component 3 of 
this IDA operation and was reviewed accordingly. Specifically the GPOBA project will be 
limited to small civil work for installing new water connections.  
 
Overall the project falls under Environmental Category B as no adverse long term impacts are 
anticipated. An ESMF will be prepared by the borrower as provided under Annex 10 of the IDA 
loan PAD. As such, no additional EA will be carried out for the purpose of the project, which 
would independently be a Category C. 
 
Page  35
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 35
Annex 5. Project Preparation and Supervision 
 
A. Institutions responsible for project preparation: 
 
1) GPOBA c/o World Bank 
2) Camwater 
3) Private operator under the lease contract with Camwater 
 
B. GPOBA/World Bank Team: 
 
Core Team: 
 
Name Title 
Unit 
Philippe Marin 
Task Team Leader 
Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist 
ETWWA 
Chantal Reliquet 
Co-TTL, Sr. Urban Specialist 
AFTU2 
Richard Verspyck  
Consultant 
AFTU2 
Gilles Marie Veuillot 
Sr. Counsel 
LEGAF 
Kouami Messan 
Procurement Analyst 
AFTPC 
Fridolin Ondobo 
Financial Management Specialist 
AFTFM 
Yvette Laure Djachechi 
Sr. Social Development 
Specialist 
AFTS3 
Africa Eshogba Olojoba 
Sr. Environmental Specialist 
AFTS3 
Advisory team: 
 
Name Title 
Role 
Unit 
Patricia Veevers-Carter 
Program 
Manager 
Peer Review/ 
Advisory 
FEU/GPOBA 
Yogita Mumssen 
Infrastructure 
Economist 
Advisory GPOBA 
Xavier Chauvot de 
Beauchene 
Infrastructure 
Specialist 
Advisory GPOBA 
Irving Kucynski 
Panel of Experts  
Advisory 
GPOBA 
Alejandro Jadresic 
Panel of Experts 
Advisory 
GPOBA 
C. Project Preparation Costs 
The project was entirely financed via loan preparation funds for the IDA operation approved in 
May 2007 (P084002), no recourse to GPOBA
 
Page  36
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 36
Annex 6. Documents in the Project File 
 
1. PAD
 for IDA loan “Urban and Water Development Support” (P084002) (report 37979 – CM) 
2. 
Lease contract between Camwater and the Private Operator 
3. 
Concession contract between Camwater and the GoC 
4. 
Annex 12 of the Lease contract detailing the mechanism of the GPOBA subsidy program 
 
Page  37
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Cameroon Water Lease 
–OBA for Coverage Expansion    September 13, 2007 
 37
Annex 7. Map 
 
