 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14688

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 05/26/2015

               Country: Cameroon
             Project ID: P106794                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Cameroon Water               Project Costs (US$M):                    11.75               4.55
                         Affermage - Oba For
                         Coverage Expansion
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      5.25               1.82
      Sector Board:      Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                05/01/2008
                                                            Closing Date:              12/31/2011         10/31/2013
         Sector(s):        Water supply (100%)
         Theme(s):         Water resource management (67% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (33% - S)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog           Soniya Carvalho       Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

As stated in the IDA Grant Agreement dated April 7, 2008, the project's objective was "to promote, following an
output-based approach, piped water access for the urban population of Cameroon by adding about 40,000 low
income Beneficiary Households (representing approximately 240,000 persons) to the urban water supply system."

Under GPOBA procedures, the Concept Note and Commitment Paper were reviewed by a Panel of Experts, and
endorsed by GPOBA management, which constitutes appraisal. The Commitment Paper is used as an equivalent of a
PAD.

The project under review was to be an integral part of the IDA-financed Urban and Water Development Support
Project (PDUE), which was approved by the Board one year earlier on May 29, 2007.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Connection to Water Services
(US$11.50 million total cost at appraisal; US$2.79 million actual financed by GPOBA)
This component was the core of GPOBA support, in the form of subsidies for eligible “working connections to water
services delivering water to about 40,000 Beneficiary Households, through the provision of works, goods and
consulting services.”

Component 2: Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$0.250 million total cost at appraisal; US$0.18 million actual financed by GPOBA)
This component aimed to “support project monitoring and evaluation activities by the hiring of an independent
verification agent”.

As part of urban water sector reforms started in 2005, GOC introduced public-private partnership (PPP) schemes.To
increase the sector's financial autonomy, a dual system was established combining (i) a public asset-holding
company, namely, the Cameroon Water Utilities Corporation (Camwater), which would be in charge of sector
development through concession contracts, and (ii) a private operator Camerounaise des Eaux (CDE) under lease
contract, or affermage.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Costs and Financing
The total cost at appraisal was US$11.75 million; the actual cost was US$3.39 million, including $0.08 million for
project preparation and US$0.34 million for supervision. The GPOBA commitment at appraisal was US$5.25 million;
the actual GPOBA disbursement was US$1.82 million, with the balance of the actual total cost being financed by
beneficiaries, Camwater, and a debt swap between Camwater and the Government of Cameroon (GOC).

Dates
The project's Mid-term Review (MTR) date coincides with that of the PDUE MTR, and there was no separate MTR for
the GPOBA project.The closing date was extended by 22 months from December 31, 2011 to October 31, 2013 to
enable the full utilization of the GPOBA Grant, which was disbursing slowly, among other delays. The Grant
Agreement was declared effective only on February 2009, i.e., 10 months after signature. Implementation was also
delayed due to the sector's institutional changes and financial difficulties.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

The project's objective has high relevance, both currently and at the time of GPOBA management endorsement. The
objective fits directly within the two pillars of engagement of the 2010-2014 Bank-GOC Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS), namely: (i) to enhance competitiveness and service delivery with a focus on large-scale infrastructure; and (ii)
to promote better governance and spending policies that target the population’s needs and the poor. The OBA
component's pro-poor approach was a necessary social complement to the IDA-funded institutional capacity-building
and infrastructure investments, and thus aligns with the Bank’s poverty reduction goal. The project's objective aligned
well with Cameroon's critical issues in urban water service delivery. In 2012, the UNICEF-WHO Joint Monitoring
Program indicated that just 28% of the urban population had access to piped water through individual connections on
premises, and only 16% at the country level. The 2011 Economic Update on Cameroon reports the striking decline in
access to sanitation and drinking water, and the increase in child mortality in some regions (including Yaoundé and
Douala), over the past decade.

b. Relevance of Design:

Modest

Given the persistent difficulties in mobilizing financing for public investments in water infrastructure, the original
project design, which required pre-financing by the public entity, proved to be inappropriate. The significant financial
deterioration of the water sector restricted Camwater’s cash-flow and hampered its capacity to pre-finance this
GPOBA project. The funds required for OBA were small, but Camwater nonetheless failed to replenish the Subsidy
Connection Fund (SCF), which was set up to direct GPOBA and Camwater funds to the works under the project.
Instead, CDE pre-financed the connections from end-2009 to early-2013, which allowed the project to continue and
connect new customers.

In order to address Camwater’s unstable financial position and larger project difficulties, the financing plan was
changed in January 2010 after project effectiveness (delayed 10 months from the Grant Agreement signing).
Camwater and CDE decided that--instead of the original project design of setting a variable fee--a fixed connection
cost would be set instead. This had the unintended, opposite result of increasing the share of connection costs that
beneficiaries had to pay themselves, as explained in Section 4 below on Efficacy.

Finally, the project was designed without sufficient consideration for the significant monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
requirements of OBA operations and the clear need for strengthening Camwater's technical capabilities in this area,
thus casting serious doubts whether the project's pro-poor and results-based approach could be more widely and
efficiently replicated. This weakness was exacerbated by the fact that the initial project design did not set regional
targets against which results could be monitored.

The Commitment Paper did not provide a conventional Results Framework as in a standard PAD but did contain a
short section (page 23) focused on the administrative arrangements for the "Monitoring and evaluation of
outcomes/results."


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Modest

Project Development Objective (PDO):
"To promote, following an output-based approach, piped water access for the urban population of Cameroon by
adding about 40,000 low income Beneficiary Households (representing approximately 240,000 persons) to the urban
water supply system". The project also aimed to use the output-based subsidy approach to reach the poor and serve
them better with more efficient water supply services.

Overall summary:
Serious implementation delays resulted in partial achievement of outputs that were significantly below targets;
moreover, there is a lack of data and evidence on project outcomes related to poverty reduction. The project's key
outcome indicators measured the "number of social connections” and the "number of people in urban areas provided
with access to improved water sources under the project.” While there were shortcomings in meeting these
indicators, the project helped to demonstrate that linking payments to outputs could be more efficient than making
up-front payments as in traditional grants or lending operations, with no guarantees that the outputs will materialize.
The project's outputs and outcomes are discussed in more detail below.

Outputs:
Although the project connected unserved populations to piped water and increased access for urban beneficiaries, it
did not achieve its main target of adding 40,000 low-income households to the urban water supply system. Despite a
closing date extension of 22 months, 18,854 new OBA connections--or 47% of the PDO target--were verified by the
Independent Verification Agency (IVA) and declared eligible for the subsidy by the October 2013 closing date. These
OBA connections made up 75% of the 25,254 connections executed by CDE. The project brought piped water to
about 150,000 people not previously connected, which represents a 63% achievement rate compared to the target of
serving around 240,000 people in urban areas.

Outcomes:
The ICR (page 12) "considers that the project reached the targeted low-income Beneficiary Households" but also
indicates, however, that "data from a recent tariff study and from CDE suggest that most of the new OBA customers
have low to very low monthly consumption", i.e., 7.8 m3/month, or about half the 13 m3/month consumer by regular
domestic connections, mainly due to the delays and high connection costs.

The project's results with respect to reaching the poor were mixed at best:

First, although CDE committed to provide affordable OBA connections and included poor households as a new market
segment by pre-financing connections for nearly the entire project period, some beneficiaries pointed to longer delays
in OBA connections compared to non-subsidized, more profitable customers, especially when subsidy reimbursement
was delayed or denied.

Second, although intended to save the badly-disbursing project, the January 2010 agreement to shift from a variable
to a fixed connection fee minimized Camwater's financial contribution without adequately considering its impact on
the targeted beneficiaries. Additional connection costs were imposed on the beneficiaries, from an average of 5% of
the connection cost--with Camwater paying the difference after GPOBA subsidy--to 10% of the cost (i.e., FCFA 6,000
or US$ 12). Meeting this higher fee meant that the connection costs had to be lowered, with the effect of reducing the
chances for poorer people (who are farther from the networks and had higher connections costs) to afford the OBA
connections. The MTR (for the parent project PDUE) found that beneficiaries paid CDE even more for additional
plumbing or extensions, especially in poorer areas with no existing networks.

Thus, as the ICR (page 14) indicates, "the subsidy made the connection more affordable, but it is not clear how much
the program really reduced access cost for the poorer households."
More generally, the ICR (page 15) indicates that reliable data are missing to properly assess the impact of the project
on poverty reduction.


5. Efficiency:

Modest

Economic Efficiency
The ICR (page 13) reports the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) as 46%, and the financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) with the subsidy included as 65%. The ICR (page 14) also indicates that greater actual cost-effectiveness was
achieved compared to appraisal estimates, since at project completion, the unit costs were US$153 for eligible
connections compared to the CP estimate of US$198 for a 17-meter connection. Moreover, GPOBA's objective of
providing a US$ 15 subsidy per person or below US$ 91 per new connection was achieved. However, the
contributions of the beneficiaries were higher than expected at 10% or more of the connection fee compared to the 5%
originally envisaged.

Administrative Efficiency
PDO achievement was impacted negatively by significant start-up and implementation delays. Grant effectiveness
was delayed by 10 months. This was followed by a 24-month delay in recruiting the Independent Verification Agency,
given procurement difficulties that led to an unsuccessful bid and an interim transition period using an individual
consultant. During that period, two verifications were made, thus resulting in a significant backlog in connections to be
verified. The Independent Verification Agency contract was started only in February 2011, but the original closing date
was already approaching on December 2011, thus prompting the request for an extension of the project closing date.


Questions about eligibility criteria and verification methodology occurred frequently, thus creating many delays in
verification. There were also many disagreements on the Independent Verification Agency results for non-eligible (and
thus, non-reimbursable) connections, which in turn delayed the Independent Verification Agency reports and the
formal requests from Camwater that trigger GPOBA disbursements.

These delays and the overall slow pace of implementation translated into a low disbursement rate and low PDO
achievement. (See figures in Section 4 above.) The first GPOBA disbursement occurred in only in June 2010, i.e.,
two years after Board approval, and GPOBA disbursed only five times during implementation. CDE stopped OBA
connections in early-2013, i.e., about 9 months before the revised closing date, but executed some 3,000 connections
during that time. These connections were not verified and therefore were not reimbursed.

Reporting was also problematic. There were two data sets to harmonize, i.e., connections sold by CDE and
connections eligible under the OBA program, thus making reporting and reimbursement difficult to implement. CDE
and Camwater considered the reporting and financial arrangements to be overly complex.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                       46%                                     98%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                       46%                                     98%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of the project's objective is high given its close alignment with the 2010-2014 CPS and the Bank's
poverty reduction goal. The relevance of project design is modest, primarily because of its dependence on public
financing of infrastructure despite the serious deterioration of Cameroon's water sector finances and Camwater's
unstable financial position at the time, as well as weaknesses in the capacity to meet the significant M&E
requirements for OBA-type projects. Efficacy is modest, given the low achievements in outputs and outcomes, and
the lack of data and evidence on reaching the poor. Efficiency overall is rated modest: while economic efficiency was
substantial, there were serious shortcomings in administrative efficiency that negatively impacted on the achievement
of the PDO.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The PPP arrangements lack a solid financial foundation, thus putting urban water sector investments at significant
risk. The sector's weak finances could lead to deterioration in service provision and uncertainties in scaling up access
to piped water for the urban poor. If the quality of service does not significantly and continuously improve, OBA
customers could possibly disconnect or get disconnected, since customers (especially the poor) may refrain from
paying bills if service is poor or absent for a long period.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project had serious shortcomings in both its design and risk mitigation, which, according to the ICR (page 17)
"weakened the project foundation from its inception". The main weaknesses at project entry were as follows:

(a) Targeting was done but the eligibility criteria were unclear. This resulted in lack of understanding within some
regional divisions, thus resulting in weak implementation and verification.

b) The M&E arrangements were also weak and capacity-building was inadequate, thus the implementing agencies
had difficulty in collecting the data needed to implement and report on the project, in line with an explicit results
framework.

(c) Buoyed by donor enthusiasm on the planned sector reforms, "the PPP was presented as the successful model
for Western Africa, even before implementation started." This resulted in an overly optimistic OBA design that
over-estimated the Government's commitment and put Camwater at risk without adequate mitigation measures.
There was also an over-confidence that external support would be forthcoming to support the extension programs,
hence the project started even though the funding sources for network extensions were not included in the project
or secured.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

The Bank supervision team focused its attention on the IDA-financed parent project PDUE. This relative neglect,
while understandable given the continuous degradation of the sector's financial situation which PDUE was seeking
to address, was seriously detrimental to the OBA project, which from early on already showed threats to effective
implementation and thus deserved more specific attention. Consequently, the Bank team missed timely
opportunities to give support tailored to the specific issues affecting Camwater and CDE. Except for the first
supervision mission in April 2009, further PDUE missions mentioned but did not provide adequate updates,
diagnoses and remedial actions for the OBA project. The first Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)
was prepared only on February 2013, i.e., 10 months before the closing date of October 2013; the second ISR
was prepared in September 2013. Candor was lacking. The first ISR rated the project "as Moderately Satisfactory
even though DO achievement was not much higher than at the time of the project extension" two years earlier.
(ICR, page 17). Although the parent project PDUE was restructured in September 2010, there was no proactive
effort to restructure the OBA project in response to its many implementation challenges.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Unsatisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:

The Government expressed its strong commitment to establish the project's PPP. However, it did not fulfill some
PPP financial requirements. The Government did not comply with the agreements under the concession contract
to support Camwater in a timely manner. According to the ICR (page 18): "The first disbursement was made only
in 2012, two others in the second half of 2013 together with a debt swap agreement that partly settled cross debts
between Camwater, CDE and the Government. This led to the overall financial degradation of the sector and put
Camwater’s cash-flow under strain. During the first months of the OBA implementation, it prevented the
replenishment of the Subsidy Fund after its initial disbursement." The impact of these difficulties went beyond just
the OBA project. Negative effects were also evident in Camwater’s ability to invest and CDE’s revenue collection
and financial equilibrium, which in turn also impacted externally supported programs.


   Government Performance Rating                               Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The financial constraints on Camwater discussed above were exacerbated by internal implementation issues that
further weakened project performance. There were serious delays in contract management, payment processing,
and Independent Verification Agency verifications. There was insufficient communication and coordination with
stakeholders, thus eroding confidence in the OBA project. Reporting was inadequate, thus preventing regular
monitoring and identification of necessary mid-course corrections. Institutional weaknesses were clearly a major
impediment, but the technical assistance funding under the parent IDA loan focused on supporting the central
PDUE coordinating unit, with the expectation that the OBA project would also benefit. In practice, however, that
one unit became responsible for two projects, in addition to their regular workload. This was worsened by delays
in recruiting the Independent Verification Agency and procurement weaknesses given the new national
procurement system. There were also difficulties in communication between CDE and IVA on the issue of
rejection connections, among others, which created tensions among the project stakeholders. Although planned
at the project design stage, the assessment of socio-economic beneficiary profiles and possible re-targeting did
not occur.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

M&E design focused on the number of new household connections that met the eligibility criteria. During physical
verification, data to assess socio-economic impacts were to be collected at the customer level, for which a template
was prepared but not used. Some indicators were difficult to use for quarterly monitoring because they did not have a
baseline or were too impact-oriented. The M&E framework was overly ambitious given the limited capability in
Camwater and CDE.

b. M&E Implementation:

CDE was supposed to provide commercial data but it encountered difficulties in harmonizing billing information
coming from the regional business units. In addition, CDE's regional units and the central unit were using different IT
systems; parameters were not always harmonized, and submissions to the central unit were also not synchronized.
Data consolidation in CDE's centralized commercial database took too long and included inconsistencies. Although
the parent project PDUE included support to improve the customer database, its implementation was delayed.
Monitoring outputs proved very complex due to different time frames and data across the various steps from (i) selling
connections, (ii) executing and verifying them physically and through the database, and (iii) invoicing them from CDE
to Camwater, and then from Camwater to GPOBA. There were divergent interpretations between the operator and the
IVA on eligibility criteria, resulting in (i) protracted disagreements regarding IVA's rejected connections and (ii) further
monitoring difficulties while the disputes stand.

c. M&E Utilization:

Although CDE provided quarterly reports, the data did not include needed details on physical achievements and
financing flows. Consequently, without the commercial data from CDE, the IVA could not assess intermediary
indicators such as ratio of disconnections among OBA customers or monthly consumption. CDE agents initially
collected socio-economic profiles, but they were limited and not systematically encoded. After the first few months of
the project, CDE agents stopped using Information on GPS localization, which would have been useful to locate
connections to be verified.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

According to the ICR (page 10), the project did not raise any safeguard issues. The environmental assessment was
carried out as part of the overall safeguards evaluation of PDUE, which was classified under Environmental Category
B as no adverse long term impacts were anticipated.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

According to the ICR (page 10), financial management (FM) was aligned with PDUE procedures and compliance was
adequate. The annual FM audits did not report any compliance problems specific to the OBA project. However, the
ICR (page 10) states that "difficulties in invoicing (CDE to Camwater) and requests for reimbursement (Camwater to
GPOBA) led to considerable delays in disbursement, with the first OBA disbursement occurring in June 2010. In
addition, Camwater was not able to replenish the Subsidy Connection Fund, leading to CDE pre-financing from
mid-2009 and during most of the project. Such adjustments on financial flows and financial data did not comply with
procedures set in the Manual of Operations."

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
 could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
 Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The main lessons derived from the ICR (pages 19-20) are as follows:

1. Effective project preparation and supervision strengthen the foundation for achievement of the PDO. This
involves the following steps:
a) Enable client ownership.
b) Design projects with proper sequencing of activities.
c) Include mitigation measures in risk assessment.
d) Provide effective supervision of OBA components of larger projects.
e) Enable effective monitoring and evaluation.

2. For OBA projects, pragmatism and clarity are key for targeting and monitoring. More specifically:
a) Incentives are key to performance and operator engagement.
b) Pragmatic approaches should be used to target the poor.
c) M&E systems and capacity building should be strengthened.
d) The subsidy formula should be simple, absolutely clear and well understood by all partners.
e) A dedicated PIU could be considered with OBA projects.
f) Having the IVA in place could be considered a condition for disbursement in the dated covenants.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clearly written, analytically strong and candid. It provides direct and adequate evidence to support its
findings and ratings. The lessons are well defined and articulated. The sector background, particularly the severity of
the sector's financial deterioration (Box 1), is well analyzed and presented. The figures and diagrams provided are
directly useful in supporting the analysis. The ICR is well aligned with the OPCS guidelines for ICR preparation.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
