Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
eJ, Z3JctI ?
Repwt No. P-3664-ZA
REPORT AND A EWMMBNDAXION
OF TE
-R iSI    CW TEE
NTERnAsTA  BAN   OR   CONSTCION AND DMVEOPBEE
TO THE lECTrE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF lUS$75.0 ILLION
TO MM REPBLIC OF ZAMIA
EXPORT    ABIL O   SAND DIVERSIFICAXION PiOJECr
Februay 29, 1984
T|i docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performne of
their oflSc1l dutis. Its cntents my not otherwise be disclosed withs  World Bnk authorkaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$ 1.00                                  K   1.60
K   1.00                                  US$ 0.625
(The Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of a basket of currencies,
for which the US dollar is the intervention currency. Since July 1983, the
Government has followed a flexible exchange rate policy, making periodic
adjustments in the official value of the Kwacha. The rates expressed above
are as of January 1984.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                 3.281 Feet (Ft)
1 Cubic Meter (M3)       =  35.315 Cubic Feet (Ft3)
1 Klometer (Ki)          -  0.62 Miles
1 Kilogram (Kg)          =  2.205 Pbunds (Lb)
1 Metric Ton (Tonne, t)  -  1000 Kg. or 2,205 Lbs.
1 Megawatt (NW)          =  1000 Kilowatts
A   OIATIONS
AfDB = African Development Bank
CIPEC     Conseil Intergouvernemental des Pays Exportateurs de Cuivre
ECU -  European Currency Unit
EEC-SYSMIN  -  The Minerals System Facility of the European Economic
Cbomnudty
MEKACO - Metal3 Marketing Corporation of Zambia LWmited
NCCM     Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
RCM - Roan Consolidated Mines Limited
-SRI    Stanford Research Institute International of the USA
tpy  -  tonnes per year
ZCCM - Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
ZIMC   -  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - Decezber 31
ZCCM      : April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
EXPORT REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:           Republic of Zambia.
Beneficiary:        Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited (ZCCM)
Amount:              US$75.0 million, including a capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including five years' grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    The loan would be onlent to ZCCM for 15 years, includ-
ing three years' grace, with a fixed interest rate
equal to the IBERD rate at the time of loan signing plus
10 percent.
Project
Description:        The Project would review and establish capacity and
production levels of ZCCM which - for the short, medium
and long-term - can be justified from an economic,
financial and market point of view. It would assist ZCCM
adopt a management and investment strategy in line with
such production and capacity targets. The project
represents the first phase of ZCCK's 5-year rehabilita-
tion and modernization program and consists of three
major components: (a) replacement and rehabilitation of
high-priority equipment and spares for existing mine and
plant facilities; (b) training to upgrade the skills of
technical and supervisory personnel; and (c) technical
studies to rationalize ZCCOO's operations. The Project
would be implemented by ZCCM.
Project Benefits:   The Project would increase the efficiency and profit-
ability of the mining industry and support Zambia's
strategy of economic diversification. It would also
improve Zambia's balance of payments by supporting
foreign exchange earnings through mineral exports and
would provide additional revenues to the Government
through mineral and other taxes.
Project Risks:      There are no significant technical or marketing risks.
The financial risks include possible shortages of
internally generated cash due to lower than expected
copper prices or to high production costs. The three
components of the Project aim at improving ZCCM's operat-
ing efficiency and reducing costs. In addition, ZCCM's
contribution to the Project would absorb only about half
of ZCCM's internal cash generation. Bank approval of new
I h rdocument has a restictd distrnbution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
teir offica duties Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without Wodd Bank authorizaion.



- Li -
additional investments would address the risk of inade-
quate funds for rehabilitation. There is also the risk
that sufficient foreign exchange might not be available
to carry out the Project and to allow ZCCM to operate.
The Government has agreed to provide the required foreign
exchange to ZCCH.
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total
~US$ Millions-
Rehabilitation and Replacement Equipment
Mining                                             49.7    141.8    191.5
Surface Plants                                      6.4      23.1     29.5
Mobile                                               1.5      7.4      8.9
Subtotal                                       57.6    172.3    229.9
Training
Civil Works                                         0.5       0.6      1.1
Equipment                                            0.2      1.6      1.8
Training Staff                                       1.8      6.6      8.4
Subtotal                                        2.5       8.8     11.3
Technical Studies                                        0.3      1.8      2.1
Base Cost                                               60.4    182.9    243.3
Physical Contingencies                              6.0      18.3     24.3
Price Contingencies                                 9.3      22.9     32.2
Total Project.Cost                                      75.7    224.1    299.8
Cof which Taxes)                                  (20.7)      -      (20.7)
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                            -       0.2      0.2
Total Financing Required                                75.7    224.3    300.0
Financing Plan:
Debt
IBRD                                            0.8      74.2     75.0
SYSMLN                                           -       45.8     45.8
African Development Bank                         -       27.3     27.3
Total                                      0.8    147.3    148.1
Equity
ZCCM-Internal Cash Generation                  74.9      77.0    151.9
Total Financing                                         75.7    224.3    300.0
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements                              US$ Millions
IBRD Fiscal Year:                          85     86      87     88
Annual                                 30.0   25.7   16.7    2.6
Cumulative                             30.0   55.7   72.4   75.0
Rate of Return:             36 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:    4624a-ZA
Naps:                       IBRD 16492 and 17004



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN EXPORT REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$75 million, includ-
ing a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent, to help finance an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project. The loan would be repaid in
20 years, including five years' grace, with a standard variable interest
rate. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Zambia Consolidated
Copper Mines Limited (ZCCK) for 15 years, including three years' grace, at
a fixed interest rate equal to the IBRD rate at the time of loan signing plus
10 percent. ZCCM would bear the foreign exchange risk and pay the front-end
and commitment fees on the loan. The European Economic Community (E3C)
through its SYSMIN facility is providing US$46 million equivalent, and the
African Development Bank (AfDB) will provide US$27 million equivalent to
assist in financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. This part is based
on the Report's findings and on those of more recent economic missions to
Zambia. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports normally range between 40 and 45
percent of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 40 percent of GDP,
and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange earnings
(mostly from copper) and 30 percent of gross value added. I Much economic
activity is dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative
skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices in 1975. Zambia's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1982, were 60 percent
below the average for the early 1970s. In 1982, copper prices reached their
I In constant 1970 prices. In current prices, however, the contri-
bution of mining has fallen to about 15 percent of GDP in recent years, due
to low copper prices.



- 2 -
lowest level in real terms in the post-World War II era. Real GDP has been
in a general downward trend slace 1975, declining on average by about one
percent per year. Real GNP per capita (US$600 in 1981) was 45 percent lower
than in 1974.
5.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10 percent of GDP during
most of this period and 20 percent of GDP in 1981-82. Nevertheless, the
volume of imports declined by over 50 percent between 1975 and 1982 in spite
of heavy external borrowing, an accumulation of arrears on import payments,
and a draw-down of reserves. It is believed that import volume continued to
decline in 1983. The decline in imports has resulted in an economy-wide
problem of underutilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector,
a large backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements which has
contributed directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports.
At the end of 1982 Zambia's total external liabilities stood at almost US$4.5
billion, including about US$1 billion in overdue payments. By comparison, in
1982, merchandise exports amounted to somewhat over US$1 billion.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's fiscal
and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large share
of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976, until a
new mineral export task was introduced in 1983. Deficit financing has
absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and contributed to a sharp
rise in consumer prices, averaging 18 percent per annum during 1976-78 and
12 percent per annum in 1979-82.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has had little or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, severe droughts which for the
past two years have necessitated substantial food imports, and, last but not
least, the fact that copper mining in Zambia is past its peak, and that for
technical reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping less rich ore
bodies, higher inputs and costs have to be incurred to maintain past levels
of production.
8.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main deficiencies
in economic policies were that (i) pricing and subsidy policies favored the
urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural producer, depressing the
latter'l income and incentive to produce for the market; also, controlled
industrial prices led to low profitability in the manufacturing sector and
a decrease in resources available for reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives
and low interest rates led to a pattern of capital intensive investment;
(iii) exchange rate and tariff policies have encouraged the use of arti-
ficially cheap importedi raw materials and other inputs and discouraged the
use of local materials. As a result, a highly capital and import-intensive
productive structure was created that proved to be very vulnerable to



prolonged declines in the availability of foreign exchange. Also, little
progress was made in developing the use of local resources and diversifying
production and exports.
9.        Shortcomings in economic management manifested themselves both at
the general government level and at the level of the state-controlled enter-
prises, including the mining companies. At the general government level, the
most obvious weakness was the lack of capacity to carry out economic policy
analysis, devise coherent policy packages and take quick and appropriate
action. Further shortcomings concerned budgetary procedures and debt
management. Because of outdated budgetary procedures, the link between
recurrent and capital expenditure has been unsatisfactory. Recurrent cost
implications of past and new investments were not considered adequately. As
a result, despite an increase in general government consumption, there have
been inadequate allocations for the operations of important development
ministries, resulting in underutilization of existing capital stock and
deterioration in economic infrastructure. The lack of aufficiently rigorous
debt management contributed to high levels of borrowing on hard terms partly
to shore up recurrent deficits, which is now the main cause of Zambia's
debt-servicing difficulties.
10.       The performance of state-controlled enterprises has suffered from
management problems and lack of clear objectives. The lack of managerial,
administrative, and supervisory capacity in individual enterprises has led to
increasing inefficiency. In the mining industry this contributed, togetker
with the technical factors mentioned before (para. 7), to Zambia's becoming
one of the highest-cost producers in the world. In the manufacturing sector
there are also a number of instances where the cost of production is
unnecessarily high because of internal inefficiency. Second, the objectives
of state-enterprises were often not sufficiently clear in the past. In the
choice of projects, economic criteria were often not given enough weight and
the cost of pursuing non-economic objectives was recognized insufficiently;
as a result, a number of state-enterprises have become persistent loss-makers
and a drain on the budget.
Need for Economic Restructuring and Role of the Copper Industry
11.       The lack of progress with diversification of production and exports
has contributed greatly to the present economic difficulties. Ever since
Zambia became independent in 1964, diversification has been one of the
Goverument's most important development objectives. But inadequate policies
and management have prevented any significant success so far. Improved
policies and management that would bring about economic restructuring are now
all the more needed as during preparation of the present Export Rehabilita-
tion and Diversification Project it became clear that economically exploit-
able ore reserves will only be sufficient to maintain present levels of
copper production for another 17 years or so (para. 36). After that, produc-
tion can be expected to decline sharply. In the long run, therefore, the
copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the domestic and external
resources required for development. In the absence of policies and programs



- 4 -
to develop new sources of income, employment and foreign exchange, Zambia may
expect a drastic fall in living standards and social well-being by the turn
of the century.
12.       Fortunately, Zambia does have the potential to develop alternative
sources of income, employment, and exports.  The greatest potential is in
agriculture, where there are opportunities for import substitution (cotton,
oilseeds, livestock, grains, sugar, forestry products, and fish) and for
exports (beef, fish, cotton, coffee, tobacco and groundnuts). Once a good
start is made with agricultural development, possibilities will be created
for agro-based industries.
13.       Paradoxically, policies to lessen Zambia's dependence on copper,
and to bring about diversification, have little chance of succeeding without
investing first in the rehabilitation of the copper industry. For any long-
term growth strategy to succeed, it is of the utmost importance that finan-
cial balance in the economy and creditworthiness be restored first. As the
main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a major role to
play. It is therefore essential that previous levels of efficiency are
restored to make the industry profitable again and competitive in world
markets.
14.       This makes the proposed Export Rehabilitation and Diversification
Project the linchpin in the Government's economic restructuring strategy.
Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the Government's diversification
effort would fail for lack of financial resources. Successful implementation
of the project would not only provide those resources, but would also buy
time to put an appropriate economic policy framework in place. Indeed, the
Government has come to realize that investing in the rehabilitation of an
industry whose resources are dwindling will have to be accompanied by
improvements in general economic management and policy reforms in order to
create the conditions for developing new sources of income, exports and
employment.
Government Strategy and Action
15.       Over the last two years, the Government, with Bank assistance, has
developed a package of policies and measures to bring about better economic
management and a policy environment conducive to healthy economic growth and
diversification. This program is outlined in a "Memorandum of Development
Objectives and Policies", included as Annex IV to this report.  The Memo-
randum was sent to the Bank by a letter from the Prime Minister, dated
January 13, 1983. In a more recent letter to the Bank, dated February 1,
1984 (Annex V), the Minister of Finance summarized progress with implementing
this program and indicates a number of further actions.
16.       The Government's economic restructuring policies, as contained in
the Memorandum, may be summarized as follows:
o   Providing a system of incentives to producers and
exporters of agricultural and industrial products in
which prices are responsive to market forces;



- 5 -
o   Allowing greater competition in the procurement and
selling of food crops. Ultimately, NAMBOARD, the
Government's agrlcultural marketing agency, will act
only as the buyer and seller of last resort to ensure
the effectiveness of incentive pricing;
o   Improving planning, and budgetary and other pro-
cedures to shift resources to productive sectors;
o   Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse
past trends of increasing consumption and declining
investment;
o   Improving the management of foreign debt;
o   Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity
of ZIMCO, which is the holding company of most state-
controlled enterprises;
o   Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil; and
o   Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an
active exchange rate policy.
17.       As indicated in the letter from the Minister of Finance (para. 15),
the Government has made commendable progress in translating the intentions
expressed in the Memorandum into tangible action. It has introduced institu-
tional reforms to improve economic management and has effected a number of
changes in economic policies which constitute the beginning of an integrated
program of short-term financial stabilization and longer-term growth and
diversification. It is a program in which actions developed in cooperation
with the IMF and the Bank complement and reinforce one another.
18.       The most important of the institutional reforms was the creation
by the President, in April 1983, of a "Special Economic Unit". The Unit,
chaired by the Minister of Finance and backed up by a competent secretariat,
is composed of senior officials in economic ministries, the central bank,
major parastatal units, the Cabinet Office, and the Office of the President.
The main function of the Unit is to prepare, coordinate and implement the
Government's policies and efforts to stablize and restructure the economy.
It has considerable decision-making powers. In the short time of its
existence it has already proved invaluable in instituting important policy
reforms, and It clearly satisfies the long-felt need of a high-level body
capable of policy analysis and quick decision-making.
19.       Other recent institutional reforms include the following:
o   Tntroducing, in the 1984 budget, important changes in
budgetary procedures, which, among other things, will
ensure consistency between recurrent and capital
expenditures and prevent underfunding of existing and
new development projects;



- 6 -
o   Reorganization of, and imprcvements in, ZIICO's
management which provides for greater autonomy in
decision-making and less direct control by
ministries;
o   Improvements in foreign exchange management and the
establishment of a National Debt Office in the
Central Bank; and
o   Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
planning.
20.       A program to restore financiaL stability was set in motion in
1983.  In April 1983, a one-year stand-by arrangement was agreed with the
IMF, and, in May 1983, a debt rescheduling agreement was reached with the
members of the Paris Club. As part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was
devalued by 20 percent in January 1983; and, in July 1983, the Government
adopted a flexible exchange rate system that provides the mechanism for
further exchange rate adjustments. Through this system, the Kwacha has
undergone gradual further depreciations, so that between January 1983 and
January 1984, a cumulative devaluation had been achieved of about 38 percent
against Lhb SDR (62 percent in terms of Kwacha). The Government has indi-
cated that it will continue to use the flexible exchange rate system to
ensure the profitibility of the mining industry and the competitiveness of
exports. Further measures taken under the IMF program include increases in
interest rates, tough budgetary measures (including substantial reductions
in subsidies and a cap on new government employment) aimed at reducing the
Government's domestic borrowing, and limiting wage increases in the private
sector to 10 percent in 1983.
21.       At the Paris Club meeting, a total amount of US$320 million was
rescheduled, US$125 million debt service due in 1983 and US$195 million in
arrears.  An unusual feature of the agreement was that it included all
officially guaranteed short-term commercial arrears. The net effect of the
Paris Club agreement is that debt service obligations in 1983 (excluding
arrears and payments to the IMF) were lowered from the equivalent of 34 per-
cent of estimated export earnings to about 23 percent. (In addition, another
16 percent of export earnings was due to the IMF.) By itself this would not
have been enough to solve Zambia's debt problems in 1983, but the Paris Club
agreement set the pattern for rescheduling exercises with non-Paris Club
members and other short-term creditors to whom Zambia owes the bulk of its
debt. The Government has concluded negotiations with most other creditors,
including commercial banks, on debt rescheduling covering the 1983 period.
22.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. Other measures with a significant longer-term impact are
increases in producer prices for agricultural crops, freer marketing arrange-
ments for the livestock sector and a complete decontrol of most industrial
prices. Over the last three years, producer prices for most agricultural
crops have been increased considerably in real terms. This has already led



- 7 -
to a significant increase in the area under cultivation. If it had not been
for the severe droughts in the region in the last two years, this would have
led to substantial increases in production. Allowing private traders to
compete with official marketing organizations in the livestock sector has
changed Zambia in a few years time from a substantial net importer of meat
products to a small net exporter. In a further attempt to allow market
forces :* play a more Important role in the economy, the Government
abolished, in December 1982, the control of all industrial prices (except for
three essential commodities: wheat flour, maize flour, and candles). Since
then, prices for a wide range of commodities have indeed been increased,
thereby helping to restrain domestic demand, while increasing the
profitability of firms.
23.       Many basic economic policies now appear to be appropriate for long-
term development, or are moving at a satisfactory pace. Attention needs to
be turned to a second tier of measures, more institutional and technical in
nature, and meant to further strengthen economic management and boost agr'-
cultural and industrial production. The Government and the Bank continue to
cooperate in the development of such policies and measures. With respect to
general economic management, the Minister of Finance, in his recent letter
(Annex V), indicates the following measures for the near future: increased
budget allocations for priority sectors; institutionalizing coordination
between capital and recurrent expenditure programs; strengthening the
analytical capabilities of the Ministry of Finance; and further improvements
in the foreign exchange allocation systems.
24.       With respect to agriculture and industry, the cooperation may lead
to sector lending, by which the Government and the Bank are expected to agree
on further actions of economic reform, covering such subjects as tariff
policies, export incentives, investment criteria, criteria for setting agri-
cultural producer prices, agricultural services and further improvements in
the management of public enterprises. Several relevant preparatory steps to
be taken soon by the Government are indicated in the recent letter from the
Minister of Finance. They include, among others, the development of a master
plan for research and extension, developing an agricultural sector strategy,
strengthening ZIMCO's analytical capacity, reviewing the tariff structure,
and revising the Industrial Development Act to make it less restrictive and
more promotional.
25.       The Government has also asked the Bank to reconve-  the Consulta-
tive Group for Zambia, which has been scheduled for the spring of 1984. To
prepare for the Consultative Group meeting, the Government has recruited a
team from the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation to assist in the
preparation of a three-year investment program in which priority will be
given to completion of ongoing projects, rehabilitation of capital stock and
new projects consistent with the goal of economic diversification.
Creditworthiness
26.       Over the past year the Government has taken import. at measures
towards financial stabilization and a program of economic restructuring.
More needs to be done, but there are encouraging signs that the Government



- 8 -
is willing and capable to take further appropriate action. Although at this
early stage cf the restructuring process external financing needs cannot be
quantified with precision, it is obvious that substantial inflows of new
capital will be needed to support the Government's economic restructuring
program.
27.       There is, however, reason for considerable concern about Zambia's
capacity to service new loans on conventional terms. At today's copper
prices, scheduled service on existing external debt will remain at a level
of about 35 percent of export earnings for the next three years. In addi-
tion, considerable payments are due to the IYF, and it would be desireable
to reduce Zambia's pipeline of commercial payment arrears and short-term
borrowings. Even with an expected increase in the price of copper, Zambhia 
will continue to experience grave difficulties in meeting its debt-service
obligations. The medium-term liquidity problems can only be overcome if
the Government for a number of years continues its financial stabilization
policies in cooperation with the DYF, continues to seek relief through
further debt rescheduling, and, in addition, seeks a sigaificant increase in
the proportion of non-project lending available from external sources. In
the meantime, the Government should avoid as much as possible borrowing on
commercial terms. For some time to come, additional borrowing should carry
sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.
28.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government has made a promising start
and is fully committed to take the necessary further steps towards economic
reform. In these circumstances, we consider the country creditworthy for
limited amounts of non-concessionary borrowing. Assuming successful economic
policies, careful financial management and an improving world economy,
Zambia's debt service ratio could decline to about 30 percent in ten to
twelve years.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN 7AMBIA
29.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 2, loans and ten credits
to Zambia, totalling about US$635.7 million (net of calcellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and five
credits have financed energy, transportation, communication and rural water
supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped expand
Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training, and corn-
merci li, agricultural and technical education systems .  Two program loans
have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of severe
economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, six loans and three
credits have been for industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial
crops, integrated family farming, coffee production and smallholder dairy
development. Agricultural projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces
are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban



-9-
development program and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its sanufac-
turing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit
is helping the Government improve its planninK and project preparation.
30.       The International Finance Coperation (IFC) has invested about
US$67 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper pro-
duction. The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive Directors
on May 31, 1983. This investment (US$18.7 million equivalent, of which
US$7.5 million is for IFC's own account) is helping to finance an expansion
and rehabilitation of the Inter-Continental Hotel in Lusaka and rehabilita-
tion of the Mhsi-o-Tuiya Hotel in Livingstone.
31.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significatly in recent years, and serious delays are currently
being experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary resources
with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to prefinance local
expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by the Bank loan. Most
seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural projects for which
funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the executing agencies
for severaL months- Other reasons for the lagging implementation of projects
are ineffective project management and inadequate inter-agency coordination.
The Bank assisted agricultural projects, which require careful management and
effective coordination due to their complex design, have suffered from these
problems, as has the Third Highway Project.
32.       The deterioration of project implementation bas, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the five-year period (FY77-8 1),
the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zamb a averaged slightly over
25 percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or
the 21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the
7Z.2 percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent, com-
pared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6 per-
cent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for Bolivia.
The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83, which was
slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7 percent) and
for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To aLLeviate the problem, provision is
being made for technical assistance in projects to strengthen implementing
agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission in monitoring project
execution. Revolving funds are being established under nev and ongoing
projects which should ease the Government's financial burden and accelerate
disbursements. The Bank or IDA would make advance deposits into these funds
to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the Government of local expendi-
tures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition, estimates of counterpart funds
required and when the funds should be made available are being prepared by
Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their need to allow implementing agencies
as much lead time as possible to pLan for these expenditures. As of December
1982, IBRD loans disbursed and outstanding were about 14 percent of Zambia's
total medium and long-term debt disbursed and outstanding.



- 10 -
33.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, reduce the energy import bill, narrow the
urban-rural income gap and improve managerial and technical skills. Antici-
pated lending reflects the Government's emphasis on directly productive sec-
tors, particularly agriculture-related activities. Continued assistance to
education, transportation and industry is also contemplated.
PART III. THE MINING SECTOR
A. Role of the Mining Sector
34.       Copper mining has dominated the Zambian economy since the early
1920's, generating 30-40 percent of GDP, providing a high proportion of wage
employment, and producing consistently over 90 percent of the country's
foreign exchange earnings. Suppliers and service industries were established
in its wake, and the industry was the leader in setting wages and worker
benefits, pulling up the general wage level In the process. The copper
industry has contributed substantial resources for investments in other
sectors of the economy through the payment of taxes and was an important
force in lifting the skills of many Zambians through its manpower training
programs. The mining of other minerals, including cobalt, lead and zinc,
and of coal increased during this period, but were dwarfed in importance by
copper.
Mineral Resources
35.       Xost of the large deposits that form the nucleus of mining in
Zambia today were discovered around the turn of the century. Only small
additional deposits have been discovered since. With the extensive coverage
already given the country, it seems highly unlikely that significant added
discoveries will be forthcoming, and there are no known orebodies in the
Copperbelt vast enough to provide the basis for offsetting the natural deple-
tion of existing mines in the late 1990s.
36.       The known geological reserves of Zambia's Copperbelt exploitable
under present economic and technical conditions are estimated at 497 million
tonnes, containing an average of about 3 percent copper, which represents
about 15 million tonnes of copper. At an estimated overall recovery rate
of 63 percent, this would imply potential total copper production of 10 mil-
lion tonnes. At present production rates, known reserves represent about
17 years of production. Mining conditions are expected to deteriorate
gradually, however. Thus, economically viable production levels will depend
on market developments and may well be substantially below present levels by
the turn of the century.



- 11 -
Structure of the Sector
37.       Until 1969, copper mining in Zambia was largely the province of
two large foreign multinational mining companies, Anglo-American Corporation
of South Africa and Roan Selection Trust International, Inc. of the U.K.
(a wholly-owned subsidiary of the AMAX Corporation of the U.S.&.). The
Zambian operations of Anglo-American formed Nchanga Consolidated Copper
Mines, Limited (NCCX), while those of Roan Selection Trust formed Roan
Consolidated Mines, Limited (RCK). The Government purchased controlling
interest (51 percent) in both companies in 1969 for a total acquisition cost
of US$331 milLion and set up a holding company, Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation, Limited (Z!MCO), to hold the shares, although the two companies
continued to be managed by Anglo-American and Roan Selection Trust, respec-
tively. By 1974, the Government had redeemed all of the bonds issued to
purchase its interest in the companies and at that time bought out for
US$79 million the management contracts of the two foreign enterprises,
thereby making the companies self-managing.
38.       Copper production peaked in 1976 at 712,000 tonnes and has declined
since then to its present level of about 575,500 tonnes. When at the same
time the international copper price fell sharply after 1974, the industry
began to lose money, and to require added injections of capital. Since
neither Anglo-American nor Roan Selection Trust was willing to provide more
capital, the Government converted some of its outstanding loans to NCOI and
RCM into equity, thereby increasing the Government's share of the equity to
60 percent in N[OC and 61 percent in RCK. With effect from April 1981, NCCM
and RCM were merged into a new company: Zambia ConsoLidated Copper Mines,
Limited (ZCCM).  ZIMCO, on the Government:s behalf, remains the major share-
holder with 60.3 percent, Anglo-American (through Zambia Copper Investments,
a Bermuda-based company) holds 27.3 percent of the shares, and Roan Selection
Trust, 6.9 percent. Public shareholders in the U.S.A., and the U.K. hold the
remainder. ZIMCO had total assets of about US$515 million as of March 31,
1983 and was the holding company for about 100 subsidiaries operating in the
mining, industrial, and agricultural sectors, as well as in trading, hotels,
transport, energy and financial services.  ZIMCO is represented on ZCCR's
Board, and the Chief Executive of ZCCK is appointed by ZIXCO. Marketing of
ZCCK's output is undertaken by MEMACO, the wholly government-owned marketing
agent.
39.       Mining sector policy, in general, and the objectives of ZCCM in
particuLar, have not been explicitly defined during the past two decades of
increasing Government ownership and control. While prime responsibilitj
rests with the Ministry of Mines and ZIMCO in consultation with ZCCM, the
Party, Cabinet, Parliament, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia,
in particular, exert considerable influence on the mining industry, through
their policies and practices which directly affect ZCCM's financiaL and
foreign exchange positions.
40.       De facto, ZCCM has operated in the recent past with the assumed
objective of maximizing production, and hence foreign exchange earnings to
Zambia, while profit and cost considerations were not paramount. The impact



- 12 -
of ZCCM's finaacial results has been quite damaging (paras. 49-50) and has
jeopardized its ability to sustain its activities without massive Government
assistance. To rectify this situation, the Government, as ZCCM's majority
shareholder, has established long-term objectives for the company which are
to form the basis of its corporate strategy for the coming decade. These
objectives are consistent with the Government's broader economic plans,
ZCCM's competitive position in the world copper market and copper/cobalt
price prospects. They were presented to the Bank in November 1983 in a
letter from the Minister of Finance (Annex VI) and are summarized below.
41.       In its statement of objectives for ZCCM, the Government has
affirmed that, in order for the mining industry to make a net contribution
to the rest of the economy, -it is essential that ZCCM remains a financially
healthy company and conduct its affairs with accordance with sound business,
financial, industrial and administrative practices.-  Within these lini-
tations, ZCCM is mandated to optimize its foreign exchange earnings and
contribution to the Government's budget. The Government recognizes that,
for ZCCK to achieve profitability and efficiency in its operations, it may
be necessary to take the following measures: (a) reduccion in labor force
and adjustment of the compensation package for the Zambian workforce;
(b) reduction in production levels to limit operating losses; this may
entail closure of uneconomic mines; (c) timely availability of foreign
exchange; and (d) revision of the taxation and dividend policies to enable
ZCCM to accumulate sufficient financial reserves as a cushion against lower
copper prices. These objectives are acceptable to the Bank and were adopted
by the Board of ZCCH on February 9, 1984 in a memorandum of corporate
objectives. ZCCM has engaged consultants, Stanford Research Institute
(para. 54), to assist in translating these broad policy objectives into
specific production and investment programs.
B. Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited (ZCCM)
42.       As mentioned earlier (para. 38), ZCCN was established in April 1981
with a share capital of US$750 million. There are twelve members on ZCCM's
Board of Directors, seven of whom are appointed by ZIMCO and five by the
minority shareholders, representing primarily the Angglo American and AMAX
groups.
Organization and Management
43.       The administrative and support divisions of ZCCM are located in
Lusaka, while the management of its seven operating divisions are located
at the mine sires, mostly in the Copperbelt in north-central Zambia. ZCCK
is almost exclusively a production company and nearly all of its sales
(exports) are made through the Metals Marketing Corporation of Zambia
Limited (MEMACO), a state-owned company responsible for marketing all of
Zambia's mineral products as ZCCM's agent. ZCCH's management commissioned
a reorganization study at the time of the merger. The top echelons of the
management structure have already been reorganized on the basis of the study,
which was carried out by Booz, Allen and Hamilton of the U.S.A. Booz, Allen
and Hamilton has submitted initial reviews of the organization of ZCCM's



- 13 -
production divisions and associated services, with recommendations to improve
information flows among the divisions and with the head offices in Lusaka.
This phase of the study is expected to be completed by April 1984. ZCCK has
agreed to present by June 30, 1984 for discussion with the Bank the proposed
information reporting system (Section 2.02(c), draft Project Agreement).
44.       Of particular interest is the establishment of a Corporate Planning
Department to strengthen the company's strategic planning capabilities. This
department, which is responsible for preparing production and investment
strategies, including estimating the human and financial resources required
to carry them out, in order to achieve the company's corporate objectives
(para. 41), has been strengthened considerably by the appointment to its
permanent staff, in addition to its existing personnel, of a geologist, a
mining engineer, a metallurgist, a transport specialist, a metals market
economist, two financial analysts and two economists which ZCCM has agreed
to maintain on its staff at aLl times (Project Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).
45.       ZCCM's organizational structure has been strengthened also by the
recent appointment of an experienced director of mining at its head offices
who wiU participate in the management committees dealing with technical and
production matters. His presence on these committees will establish the
critical linkage between technical and production matters and overall policy
and managerial decisions.
Manpower and Training
46.       ZCCM is the largest employer in Zambia, with a workforce of about
57,300, including 1,900 expatriates. Although the Zambian workers are
unionized, there has been no major labor unrest for ten years, reflecting
rather generous employment conditions. The local wage bill accounts for
about 26 percent of total production costs, thus the determination of salary
levels is highly significant in ZCOI's efforts to contain its production
costs. Broader issues, such as income distribution and equity, are involved
as well, but have not been adequately reviewed within the industry or nation-
wide. Labor turnover is low, at less than six percent. Employees' jobs have
been protected even under difficult economic conditions, and wage and other
benefits have exceeded substantially those available in the rest of the
country, although salaries have fallen in real terms over the past several
years and the differential between average wages in mining and the rest of
the economy has narrowed considerablyo The recent financial squeeze on ZCCH
has forced the company to reduce its local workforce by attrition and early
retirement schemes by about 2,600 in the past two years and an expected 300
this year, with already favorable effects on technical productivity.
47.       Traditionally, the mining industry has relied heavily on expatri-
ates at the higher managerial and technical levels. At independence, steps
were taken to increase Zambian participation in these positions through frag-
mentation of jobs and job responsibilities. This has led, over the years, to
an increasingly cumbersome staffing structure, with lines of responsibility
and authority less and less clear. In 1971, the recruitment of expatriates
was made difficult when the Government limited remittances of foreign



- 14 -
exchange by expatriates and reduced the maximum contract terms for expatri-
ates to three years, which tended to discourage them from seeking a life
career in the country. Deteriorating living conditions and the personal
security problems in Southern Africa have further discouraged mid-career
expatriates from accepting positions or remaining in Zambia. As a conse-
quence, expatriate employment in the industry dropped from 16 percent of the
labor force in 1964 to 10 percent in 1971 and further to 3.5 percent in
1983. Because there have not been sufficient numbers of qualified Zambians
available to fill the positions vacated by the expatriates, and training
programs have not been fully efferetive, in large part because of the lack of
trainable secondary school graduates, many important management and technical
positions have remained vacant or been filled with under-qualified workers,
particularly in mining, metallurgy and engineering. This has led to
inefficiencies across-the-board in mine operations, from planning to main-
tenance, and to decreasing production.
48.       Effective April 1982, the Government introduced a new expatriate
compensation policy. Designed to attract aud retain experienced expatriate
staff, this policy provides a total compensation package competitive by
international standards, thus resolving a major issue in the recruitment and
retention of expatriate staff. The departure of expatriate employees and the
shortage of trainable Zanbians has forced ZCCN to identify its shortfalls in
skills at all operating levels; to define its priorities for filling vacan-
cies; to reformulate its training and skills upgrading programs for its
Zambian workers; and to define a realistic program for a more gradual
replacement of expatriates by Zambians. ZCCM is actively, and again
successfully, recruiting experienced expatriates. Although the expatriate
workforce is expected to decline further as the company rationalizes its
operatloub, and thus its staffing requirements, the quality of the expatriate
staff has been improved considerably by the departure of less-qualified
members and the hiring of staff with higher qualifications. A comprehensive
training program is being developed as part of the project with the view to
further upgrading of staff.
Production and Productivity
49.       Copper production has declined steadily for nearly a decade, from a
peak of 712,000 tonnes in 1976 to 575,500 tonnes in 1983. The main problem
has been the mines' inability to deliver sufficient tonnages of suitable ore
to the concentrators, thereby leaving the concentrators, smelters, and
refineries, under-utilized.  Several factors account for the declilning
tonnage. The ore grades are declining as the mining operations move into
less rich areas.  Mine development is inadequate in the underground mines
and overburden removal is inefficient in the open pit mines, in large part
because of lack of equipment in good working order. Dilution rates (tonnage
of waste rock per tonne of ore mined) increase as mine development and
preparation worsen, and copper recovery falls with declining millhead
grades. Finally, deteriorating mine management and lack of adequate super-
vision, discipline and work incentives have led to a decrease in workers'
productivity over the years, from an average of 12.2 tonnes per employee in
the 1973-76 period to 10.1 tonnes per employee in 1982. This compares to



- 15 -
about 12.6 tonnes per employee in Zaire and 30.8 tonnes per employee in
Chile. As a result, ZCCM's present production cost is in the top 30 percent
of copper producers worldwide.
50.       There is a need to review critically all of ZCCM's mining and
processing operations in order: to establish capacity and production levels
of ZCCM which - for the short, medium and long-term - can be justified from
an economic, financial and market point of view; and to assist ZCCM adopt a
management and investment strategy in Line with such production and capacity
targets.  This will require ZCCM inter alia to:  assess the technical factors
affecting operations and the possibilities of rationalizing existing mining
operations; prepare adequate development and mine plans; improve mining
controls, e.g., sampling, surveying, and grade control; organize proper
supervision and discipline, along with an appropriate incentive program to
improve labor productivity; and develop the cost, financial, economic and
social implications of mine closures and reductions in production.
Financial Performance
51.       ZCCM's financial situation deteriorated sharply in the past couple
of years, largely as a result of several years of depressed copper prices and
steadily increasing production costs. Net after-tax losses of K 174 million
and K 128 million were incurred in 1982 and 1983 (fiscal years ending March
31), respectively. During the longer 1978-83 period, cash generation covered
only 24 percent of ZCCM's (including consolidated NCCM and RCM results)
sources of funds, with short and long-term borrowings covering 70 percent
of the requirements for funds. However, despite the deterioration in its
cash flow position, ZCCM's balance sheet improved during the late 1970s as
a result of the Government's converting US$131 million in loans to equity,
so that by 1980 the company's long-term debt/equity ratio had actually
improved to 14:86. In the past two years, however, ZCCM's current ratio
declined from 1.4:1.1, and its long-term debt/equity ratio deteriorated
from 19:81 to 51:49. In order to ensure ZCCK's financial viability and its
ability to implement the project, agreement: has been reached on several
financial covenants (para. 79).
52.       In May 1982, ZCCM introduced drastic cost-cutting measures in
response to the company's deteriorating financial situation. The actual
results over the ensuing twelve months were much better than the company had
expected. Total operating costs were reduced by 17 percent as opposed to an
eight percent forecast, and capital cost declined by 34 percent compared with
the forecast of 17 percent. To a large extent, these cost reductions can
be considered pormanent. During the next year, ZCCH expects to reduce its
operating costs by another eight percent, mostly through further reductions
in the work force, improvements in its purchasing methods and lowering
expenditures on some social services. Over the longer term, additional
cost savings will have to come from: (a) increases in mine productivity;
(b) closures of financially and economically unviable operations; (c) better
cost control practices; ana (d) the establishment of a systematic approach
to budget preparation and financial and economic cost/benefit analyses of
capital expenditure proposals. In February 1983, ZCCM's Board adopted a



- 16 -
number of measures to improve the structure of the company's balance sheet.
It introduced new accounting practices, in line with Zambian accounting
principles, to adjust for the effects of the recent devaluation and author-
ized negotiatioas that led in July 1983 to subordination of K 203 million of
debt owed the Government and the Bank of Zambia.  Also, some of ZCCM's debt
was accepted for rescheduling at the May 1983 Paris Club meeting which pro-
vided general debt relief to the Zambia Government.
C. Prospects for the Copper Sector
53.       The problems of and prospects for mining in Zambia are essentially
those of the copper sector. Zambia's copper reserves have an average grade
of three percent which is much higher than other producers elsewhere in the
world (for example, less than one percent copper grade in North America and
1-2 percent copper grade in Latin America). Despite its higher copper grade,
ZCCN is currently one of the world's higher-cost copper producers due to
various factors previously noted, including lack of market-oriented objec-
tives, an inadequate organizational structure, insufficiently qualified staff
and cost-consciousness, sub-optimal use of production facilities and lack of
materials and spare parts due to foreign exchange shortages. It is to be
expected that ZCCM's cost competitiveness will improve as the various
measures supported by this project are implemented (para. 58) and production
levels are rationalized. The establishment of a new entity, ZCCM, combined
with the disastrous financial results of the last two years have provided the
shock necessary for actions to be initiated to arrest the deteriorating
trend, rethink objectives and hopefully push the industry back into a profit-
able position as a net contributor to Zambia's budget and diversification
effort.
54.       Cost efficiency and rigorous management are the necessary ingredi-
ents to a meaningful recovery program. As mentioned (para. 43) ZCCM has
hired the services of Booz, Allen and Hamilton to help define and implement
a new management structure and information reporting system. ZCCK is also
preparing a document on the monetary and non-monetary benefits available to
its local work force; an action plan to obtain an appropriate compensation
package for the company's staff; and a comprehensive training program
consistent with the company's priorities and resources. ZCCM has also
selected Stanford Research Institute International (SRI) of the U.S.A. to
assist the company in: reviewing its present operations practices; recommend
an action program to increase mining controls, reduce dilution and increase
labor productivity; formulating a schedule and action program for shutting
down financially and economically unjustified operations; introducing
financial and economic cost/benefit analysis of investments; and formulating
production and investment strategies consistent with the broad objectives
assigned to it by the Government (para. 41).
55.       In early 1983, ZCCM prepared a five-year (1984-88) investment
program to reduce unit production cost, while maintaining its present level
of production and hence its foreign exchange earning potential. The major
components to this program are: (a) investments for rehabilitation and
maintenance; (b) investments in major projects to prepare new ore blocks



- 17 -
for exploitation, modernize existing plant, and construct the tailings leach
plant; and (c) investments to better working and living conditions, including
the provision of improved social services. The cost of the program, which
was prepared in early 1983, totals about US$0.9 billion, of which about 60
percent is budgeted for rehabilitation, 35 percent for major projects, and
five percent for ancillaries. About one-half of the program is for ongoing
projects. Present market prospects and ZCCM's financial outlook require
urgently a re-examination of production targets in the short, medium and
long-term, and investment priorities, particularly for the 1985-88 period.
D. Bank Involvement in the Mining Sector
56.       IDA has provided a credit (Credit 1333-ZA, of May 23, 1983) for an
engineering study to determine the feasibility of rehabilitating the Maamba
Coal mining operation in southern Zambia. This is the only coal mine cur-
rently functioning in Zambia and is the supplier for several important
industrial and other users, e.g., the copper, fertilizer and cement indus-
tries. The engineering study will review the overall operation, assess the
rehabilitation needs and recommend an action program to raise production and
productivity. The objective of the study is to substitute, where possible,
low price indigenous coal for expensive imported petroleum fuels, which are a
heavy drain on the country's foreign exchange earnings. The Bank has had no
prior involvement in the sector.
57.       IFC has approved two investments in NCCM, one in 1979 for an
expansion of the cobalt plant of the Nkana Division of that Company and the
other in 1981 for an expansion of the Tailings Leach plant of the Nchanga
Division. The latter, which is expected to raise refined copper production
by 52,000 tonnes per year by late 1988, is just getting underway.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
58.       The proposed project was identified in August 1981, following a
mining sector survey the previous year, and was appraised in February 1982.
A post-appraisal mission, joined by a team from the AfDB, visited Zambia in
March 1983 to update the Bank's information on the project. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. during the period January 9-16, 1984. The
delegation from Zambia was headed by Mr. Francis Kaunda, Chairman and Chief
Executive of ZCCM and Mr. F.M. Siame, Senior Under Secretary of the Ministry
of Finance. A Loan and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this
report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
59.       The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(i) to review and establish capacity and production
levels of ZCOM which - for the short, medium and
long-term - can be justified from an economic,
financial and market point of view; and



- 18 -
(ii) to assist ZCCM adopt a management and investment
strategy in line with such production and capacity
targets.
Specifically, the project supports ZCCM's effort at improving the performance
of its operations through (a) rationalization in the use of its mining and
metallurgical facilities, (b) improvement in its labor productivity, and
(c) closing down and/or rehabilitating its worn-out or economically
inefficient facilities. This effort is expected to improve ZCCM's cost
efficiency and permit the company to reduce its production cost, sustain
itself financially, and contribute to Zambia's economy, particularly to net
foreign exchange earnings and domestic savings. The proposed project covers
the 1984-88 replacement and rehabilitation investments needed to improve
ZCCH's performance and competitiveness.
60.       The project would include the following components:
(i) replacement or rehabilitation of high priority
equipment, including mobile equipment, and spare
parts for machinery and equipment used in the mining
operations, the concentrators, and the metallurgical
plants;
(ii) training of mining engineers, technicians and tech-
nologists; on-the-job craft training, specialized
on-the-job craft training abroad for engineers,
technicians and craftsmen; and management training
courses for supervisor and managerial personnel; and
(iii) technical studies to rationalize ZCCM's operations
and operating methods, including a critical review of
all mining, prucessing and metallurgical opeations
and recommendations for specific actions to
reestablish ZCCM's competitiveness.
61.       The replacement and rehabilitation component would consist of a
number of small investments directed toward improving the efficiency of the
existing facilities. These investments have a high priority and will be
required regardless of the outcome of the technical studies mentioned in
(iii) above. Under the training component. the number of mining engineering
students enrolling in the University of Zambia would be increased from 30 per
year, at present, to 60 per year by the 1985/86 academic year; the number of
students in mining, metallurgy, surveying and ventilation would be increased
from 20-40 per year, at present, to 120-150 per year by the 1985/86 academic
year; an additional 120 craftsmen per year in electrical and plant fitter
trades and 50 welding specialists per year would receive on-the-job training;
about 90 engineers, technicians and craftsmen would receive on-the-job-
training abroad through fellowships; and courses in supervision, finance and
budgeting, and communication skills would be provided to management and
supervisory personnel. A 120-man hostel would be constructed to accommodate
the trainees at the Craft Training Center in Kitwe, and equipment and mate-
rials would be acquired for the classrooms and laboratories at the Zambia



- 19 -
Institute of Technology. Complementing this effort, the studies would focus
on optimizing ZCCM's operations so as to gain the full benefit of the recent
merger of NCCM and RCM, and the training component would provide the trained
Zambian manpower required to effectively operate and manage the operations.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the rehabilitation project, including taxes and
duties and the Bank's front-end fee, is estimated at US$300 million of which
US$224 million (75 percent) is foreign exchange costs. Including physical
contingencies, about US$254 million (95 percent) would be required for the
rehabilitation and replacement component, US$12 million (4 percent) for the
training component, and US$2 million (one percent) for technical studies,
for a total base cost plus physical contingency of about US$268 million.
Physical contingency allowances are estimated at 10 percent of the base
costs and price contingencies are based on escalation for foreign costs,
in US dollar terms, of 8, 7.5, 7 and 6 percent in 1983, 1984, 1985, and
1986, respectively. Consultant services are estimated on the oasis of
139 man-months at a cost of about US$13,500 per man-month, including
salaries, subsistence, and economy-class air transportation, which are
considered reasonable.
63.       About 49 percent of the total project cost, or US$148 million,
would be financed through external borrowing and 51 percent, or US$152 mil-
lion by internal cash generation. The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million
would cover 25 percent of the total project cost, including US$0.8 million of
local cost, and 33 percent of the Project's foreign exchange cost. It would
be extended to the Government for 20 years, including five years' grace, at
the prevailing standard variable interest rate. The Zambia Government would
onlend the funds to ZCCM for 15 years, including three years' grace, at a
fixed interest rate equal to the IBRD rate at the time of loan signing plus
10 percent. ZCCK would bear the foreign exchange risk and pay the front-end
fee and commitment change on the Bank loan. Execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and ZCCM, on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, would be a condition of Bank loan effectiveness (Sections
3.01(c) and 6.01(a), draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The balance of the external resources required would be provided by
the AfDB (US$27 million) and the SYSMIN facility of the EEC (US$46 million).
The AfDB would finance replacement equipment and spare parts with a loan to
the company, guaranteed by the Government, which is repayable in 13 years,
including three years' grace, at 9.5 percent per annum interest and carrying
a statutory fee of one percent and a commitment charge of one percent. The
effectiveness of the AfDB loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan (Section 6.01 (b), draft Loan Agreement). The SYSMIN loan was
approved in April 1982 and became effective in September 1982. The loan to
the Government is repayable in 40 years' including 10 years' grace, at six
percent interest per annum. The loan proceeds are onlent to ZCCM to be
reoaid in 20 years, including two years grace, at six percent per arnum
inaerest. The financial equivalent of this difference in terms is credited
to a fund to be used to improve the industry's social environment.



- 20 -
65.       ZCCM is considered capable of providing its share of project costs
in local and foreign currencies from internal cash generation. It would be
requested to finance any cost overruns by borrowing and/or equity contribu-
tions and the Government would ensure that aaequate foreign exchange is made
available to carry out the project (Section 3.01 (b), draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation and Schedule
66.       The project would be implemented by ZCCM over a two-and-half-year
period from mid-1984 to early-1987.  ZCCH has the capacity to carry out
all aspects of the project, which would not place an undue burden on its
organizational structure. The recent reorganization of the company should
facilitate the proper allocation of tasks and their efficient execution.
67.       The replacement and rehabilitation component of the project will
be carried out in two phases and the Bank loan disbursed in two tranches:
the first covering the period from mid-1984 to about end-1985 and the second
spanning mostly 1986. The second phase, and the disbursement of the loan
for it, would start only after (a) the Bank, the Government and ZCCM have
agreed, on the basis of a review of the studies referred to in para. 54, on
the implementation of an action program to carry out ZCGM's production and
investment strategies, including, for the 1986-88 period, year-by-year
targets for cutting overhead costs, reducing dilution and increasing mine
productivity, an implementation plan for closure of financially and economic-
ally nonviable operations, and priority ranking of replacement and new
investments; (b) ZCCM has received adequate foreign exchange to carry out
its operations; and (c) the Borrower has made adequate progress in the
carrying out of the actions referred to in the letter from the Minister of
Finance (Annex V) and, specifically, that it has completed the following
actions: changes in the tariff structure, preparation of a master plan for
agricultural research and extension and implementation of agreed budget
reforms (Section 4.04 and Schedules 4 and 5, draft Loan Agreement). To
assure smooth implementation of the rehabilitation component, ZCCH has
prepared a schedule of its foreign exchange requirements for 1984-86, which
was discussed at negotiations. The Government has agreed to provide ZCCM
with a minimum of US$350 million in foreign exchange during 1984, which is
the estimated amount needed in that year. It has also been agreed that by
October 31 of each year, the Government will present to the Bank for review
and approval an estimate of the amount it proposes to allocate to meet the
company's foreign exchange needs for the subsequent year, and to make
available the amount so provided (Section 3.01 (b), draft Loan Agreement).
68.       ZCCM's Department of Manpower Development and Training would manage
the training component of the project, with assistance from the University of
Zambia, the Zambia Institute of Technology, and the Craft Training Center at
Kitwe.
69.       The technical studies component would be managed by the company's
Department of Rehabilitation, in cooperation with the Technical Department,
and would involve nearly every operating division of the company. The major
part of these studies would be carried out by the SRI, as lead consultant,



- 21 -
which has submitted a study proposal based on a diagnostic survey it under-
took in late 1982. Conitracts have already been signed with SRI for some of
the tasks in the study proposal, and contracts are expected to be signed by
April 1984 for the remaining tasks. Other consultants would be contracted to
carry out the rest of the studies. All the studies would be completed by
June 1985.
Environmental and Safety Aspects
70.       Large-scale recovery of metals from ores produces significant
quantities of gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes that, if not disposed of
carefully, can pollute air and water supplies. In Zambia, disposal of these
wastes is currently regulated by the Mines and Minerals Act of 1977. While
ZCCM's monitoring and control of pollution levels is generally adequate, the
policing and enforcing of the Act is not satisfactory because of lack of
resources and loose wording in the regulations.
71.       ZCCM monitors all environmental aspects of the Company's opera-
tions. Monthly water samples from operating areas and various township
sites are analyzed for pH, solids, hardness, and mineral content. Air
quality is monitored at each operating site to determine carbon monoxide,
carbon dioxide, hydrogen cyanide, sulfur dioxide, nitric oxides, moisture,
temperature and dust levels. In general, the quantities of effluents exceed
levels accepted in the industrialized countries. Sulfur dioxide and particu-
lates emitted by smokestacks exceed standards near the smelters, but are
within the standards in the town areas. As regards water pollution, ZCCMI's
monitoring indicates that pH is within standards but total suspended solids
is way above. The Zambian National Council of Scientific Affairs is pre-
pariag a more comprehensive regulatory act to address these environmental
concerns. At regular intervals the Government will furnish to the Bank for
its review and comment reports on the progress made in carrying out the base
study for preparing this Act and in promulgating regulations for the indus-
trial and mining sectors to govern the monitoring and control of health,
safety and population in industrial and mining operations (Section 4.02,
draft Loan Agreement). ZCCM would be required to carry out its operations
in accordance with sound health, safety and pollution control standards
consistent with international practices (Section 3.04, draft Project
Agreement).
72.       Health and safety are monitored by both the Government and ZCCM,
following codes based on the British Safety and Work Act and the U.S.
Occupational Safety and Health Act. ZCCM is required to provide health
services to all residents of the copperbelt and not just to its employees and
their dependents. The company has a good safety record.
Procurement
73.       Procurement of all Bank-financed items would follow the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Equipment and about two years of spare parts,
including transport to Zambia, would be procured primarily through Interna-
tional Competitive Bidding (ICB). Specialized equipment, equipment supplied



- 22 -
by only a few manufacturers, or items estimated to cost less than US$300,000,
will be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB). The total
amount so procured is limited to US$10.0 million, or 13 percent of the pro-
posed loan. The aggregate amount of conttracts for goods costing less than
US$300,000 will, in addition, be limited to US$3 million. It is expected
that some equipment may be manufactured locarl or supplied by local agents.
Zambian manufacturers would receive a 15 percent preference or the amount of
the customs duties, uhichever is lower. Approximately US$15 million, about
20 percent of the proposed Bank loan, would be used in direct purchase of
proprietary equipment and spares (Section B, Schedule 1, draft Project
Agreement). The packaging of the equipment items to be financed by the Bank
was agreed at negotiations.
74.       The Bank would undertake a prior review of bidding documents for
packages estimated to cost more than US$500,000, which is expected to involve
about 30 packages with a total value of around US$57 million.  Packages below
US$500,000 in value, about 40 packages valued at US$13 million, would be
subject to post review by the Bank. To ensure proper adherence to Bank
procurement procedures, the first two contracts handled by ZCC's Purchasing
Department would be reviewed irrespective of their value and procurement
method (Section D, Schedule 1, draft Project Agreement).
75.       SRI, which is carrying out the major part of the tez--nical studies
(para. 54) was selected from a list of four firms, under World Bank pro-
cedures.  The remainder of the studies would also be contracted for in
accordance with Bank guidelnes (Section 2.02, draft Project Agreewent).
Considering the need to initiate the rehabilitation studies as quickly as
possible, ZCQH has, with Bank approval, already contracted with SRI for some
of these studies and has requested the Bank to consider retroactive financing
for work carried out prior to signing the loan. Consequently, retroactive
financing of up to US$0.4 million for consultant services expenses incurred
after July 1, 1983 is provided for (para. 4 (a), Schedule 1, draft Loan
Agreement).
Disbursement
76.       The Bank loan would finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment, materials and spares; 100 percent of the ex-factory cost
of equipment supplied by local firms winning under international competition
(excluding taxes); 80 percent of local expenditures for items provided by
local agents; 100 percent of foreign costs of consulting services provided
by foreign consultants; and 100 percent of the total cost of training. A
Special Account operated by ZCCO would be established in the Bank of Zambia
into which withdrawals of part of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
deposited to ensure that funds for the proposed project would be available
when needed (Section 2.02(b), draft Loan Agreement). The initial deposit
would be US$1.0 million, which would be withdrawn immediately upon loan
effectiveness. This account would be replenished on the basis of documentary
evidence provided the Bank by ZCCQ as to payments made from the account for
goods and services required for the project (Schedule 2, draft Project
Agreement).



- 23 -
77.       As mentioned earlier (para. 67), disbursement against equipment and
spare parts would be divided into two tranches, the first amounting to US$40
million and the second to US$30.0 million. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1987.
Financial Prospects
78.       For illustrative purposes and until the appropriate capacity and
production levels have been determined, the financial projections have beeni
developed assuming ZCCM's production remains at 570,000 tpy, with up to an
additional 52,000 tpy produced by the Tailings Leach Project (para. 57).
Price projections, taking into account likely future price trends and
cyclical fluctuations, have been prepared. Becau,e of the volatility of
copper prices, it is considered that there is only a 60-70 percent
probability that prices will be within 20 percent of these projections
for any particular year. The projections indicate copper prices rising
in current terms from US$0.71/lb for the year ending March 31, 1983 to
US$1.07/lb. in 1989, then falling back in the early 1990s. On that basis,
the expected reduction in operating costs is expected to slowly restore
ZCCM's profitability, although losses would occur in years of low copper
prices. ZCCK would suffer a small loss in 1984 (K 2 million), and then
generate an annual after tax profit of K 30 million in 1985 (two percent of
sales revenue) increasing to K 102 million in 1987 (four percent of sales
revenue).
79.       To protect ZCCM's financial position, the Government has converted
to subordinated debt K 203 million in loans to ZCCM from itself and the Bank
of Zambia.  In addition, ZCCM would maintain from March 31, 1986 a current
ratio of at least 1.2 to 1, a ratio of debt to equity plus subordinated debt
of not more than 50:50, and a projected debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1.3 (Sections 4.05, 4.06, and 4.07, draft Project Agreement). ZCCM
would easure that its tangible net worth would not fall below K 900 million
(Sectioa 4.08, draft Project Agreement). Until project completion, Bank
approval would be required for capital investments additional to the project
investment program already approved by the company in excess of US$30 million
equivalent in any one year (Section 4.04, draft Project Agreement).
80.       If the downturn in copper prices expected in the late 1980s
actually takes place, ZCCM would return to a loss-making situation, and need
to borrow heavily again. Given the inherent uncertainty associated with
future coppex price projections, ZCCM would prepare every year a five-year
financial projection which would address the effect of different copper price
outlooks and take into account ZCCM's foreign exchange and local currency
requirements and planned expenditures on an annual basis (Section 4.03, draft
Project Agreement). In addition, ZCCM would undertake various measures to
reduce the effects of possible future losses. It should develop, in close
ccllaboration with MEEMACO, flexible production, investment, and marketing
strategies to permit adjustments to limit losses. Also, the Government
would study the present dividend and tax regime applicable to ZCCM which,
in effect, distributes all of ZCCM's profits te the shareholders and the
Government, so that reserves can be accumulated from profits during periods



- 24 -
of high prices which would subsequently be available to cushion losses
incurred during periods of weak copper prices (Section 3.02 (a), draft Loan
Agreement).
Auditing and Reporting
81.       ZCCM would submit to the Bank within six months of the close of the
accounting year annual reports examined by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank (Section 4.02 (a), draft Project Agreement).  In addition, ZCCM
would submit to the Bank quarterly financial statements within 45 days after
the end of each quarter and moathly project progress reports and procurement
status reports within three weeks of the end of each month. Within six
months of the closing date for the project, ZCM( would prepare and furnish
to the Bank a completion report on the project dealing with is implementation
and the costs and benefits derived and expected to be derived therefrom
(Section 2.05 (d), draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits
82.       The project is an important element in the Government's development
strategy. By assisting Zambia in re-establishing its competitiveness in the
world copper market by lowering unit production costs and by determining
financially and economically optimum production levels, it would support
Zambia's balance of payments and generate resources which could be invested
in diversification projects. The Zambian authorities recognize the urgency
of diversifying the economy and have developed structural reform programs
emphasizing agriculture and industry. The project would help provide the
foreign exchange and investment resources needed to carry out these programs.
83.       Incremental net foreign exchange benefits from the project are
estimated at US$44 millien per annum over the next five years.  These bene-
fits are calculated on the basis of incremental export revenues as a result
of the project, minus the direct and indirect foreign exchange portion of the
incremental operating and capital costs, including debt service on ZCCH's
external financing. Other economic benefits include the revenues that would
accrue to the Government through mineral, income and other taxes. During the
1984-88 period, ZCCM is expected to pay about K 1.6 billion in direct and
indirect taxes, or about K 0.3 billion per annum. There are also unquantf-
fiable benefits associated with training and technical studies.
84.       As would be expected for a rehabilitation project of this nature,
the economic rate of return (ERR) in real terms is high at 36 percent. This
is the discount rate which equates the streams of incremental costs and
benefits flowing from the project over its lifetime. The basis for this
calculation is that without a rehabilitation project, production would
continue to decline involuntarily at 2.5 percent per annum, as it has in the
past. It is, of course, difficult to judge how rapidly output would fall in
the absence of such a project. Furthermore, it is clear that the rate of
return is highly sensitive to variations in production levels. Should the
project prevent a drop in production during the 1984-88 period of only two
percent per annum instead of 2.5 percent per annum, the return would still be



- 25 -
high at 22 percent in real terms. It would decrease to 11 percent in real
terms should the drop in production without the project be only 1.5 percent
per annum during the 1984-88 period.  Sensitivity analyses indicate that the
rate of return is less sensitive to variations in revenues or operating and
investment costs.
Risks
85.       The technical risks in the project are small.  The technical
aspects of the replacement and rehabilitation component are straightforward
and well-known to ZCCM's engineering staff.
86.       While ZCCK is not expected to encounter difficulties in marketing
its copper production, it cannot be excluded that copper prices do not rise
in real terms as has been assumed, and that there may be reductions in ZCCM's
revenues in individual years, posing financial risks to the project.
However, most market experts tend to expect real price increases through
1986, which should allow a marked improvement in ZCCM's finances over the
next three years if the company implements the action programs specified
under this project. In the longer term, adjustments to the parity of the
Kwacha will, to a large extent, influence the ability of the company to
sustain itself financially. The project is not expected to influence the
general level of copper prices, as ZCCK's share of estimated world copper
production is estimated to remain about the same at approximately 10 percent.
87.       The principal financial risk facing the project is the possibility
of insufficient or untimely availability of internally generated cash for
equity financing to complete the project. Internally generated cash may not
be available because: it has not materialized, mostly on account of low
copper prices; or requirements for the rehabilitation of ZCCK facilities
cannot be met because of competing ZCCM investment on new major projects. As
noted (para. 79) any copper price projection is subject to a large degree of
inherent uncertainty. However, the consequences of low copper prices in the
project finances are ameliorated in that equity contribution from internally
generated cash will represent only about half of the projected internal cash
generation during the two-and-a-half years duration of the Project. As a
further safeguard, ZCCM would be required to meet certain financial covenants
(para. 78). Other measures taken to help ZCCM cope with insufficient cash
generation are the annual review of expenditures and revenues through project
completion and the preparation of five-year financial projections which would
permit early identification of cash shortfalls (para. 80); and the government
cost overrun guarantee. To reduce the risk of the second case, i.e.,
competition with other investments, the Bank's approval would be requested on
the productioa and investment program prepared after completion of the
technical studies; and new investments in addition to the company's already
approved investment program in any year higher than US$30 million through
project completion (para. 79).
88.       Another financial risk is related to the insufficient provision
of foreign exchange to ZCCM, not only because ZCCM's ability to produce is
dependent on timely availability of foreign exchange, but also Zambia's



- 26 -
foreign exchange earning capability is linked to ZCCH's production levels.
To keep this risk under control, the Government and ZCCH would agree each
year on the amounts of foreign exchange that should be made available to run
ZCCM's operations efficiently (para. 67).
89.       Finally, the managerial risk of the project is obvious.  The
project's success depends heavily on the Government's and ZCCM's commitment
in transforming the agreed upon long-term objectives in a consistent action
program which implements, inter alia, unpopular but economically justified
decisions. To limit the managerial risk and Bank exposure, disbursement of
the second tranche is conditioned on the agreed action program (para. 67).
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between Zambia Consolidated Copper Nines
Limited and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed-separately to the Executive Directors.
91.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are:
d) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and ZCCK (para. 63); and
b) effectiveness of the African Development Bank loan
(para. 64).
92.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. 42aui.?n
Pre: ident
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 29, 1984



- 27 -                                               ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1  of  5
ZmBI                  - SOCAL I-SCAToS DATA SHME
ZANKA                               REFEm     aws (Ewftmo AVERCAGS) /.
NlMST                    (lST RECEar ESTWATE) lb
AM         1970-AM SQ. KM)  ESTiUATi   AFRICA S. OF SANARA   S. AFRCCA & HID EAs
AREA (THOIISAS 5Q. 1                              ;c    EET                 IDErl               DOL  t.
TOTAL                             75Z.6       752.6      752.6
ACRICCLTURAL                      398.2      399.5       401.1
CG? Pl CAPCTA (US0)                  230.0      380.0       600.0            1147.9                   1340.0
(ECLtooS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)                 707.0       733.0             7Z4.2                    QO0.4
wnzLAnOw AM  TAL STA       C
POPULATIOKUD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   3207.0      4159.0      5842.0
URBAS POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)      23.1       30.0        43.9              28.5                     47.4
POPULATION PRCJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (ILL)                           11.3
STATIONARY POPULATLON CHILL)                            40.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                           2145
POPULATION DEN5m
PER SQ. Vt.                       4.3        5.5         7.5              56.5                     36.0
PER SQ. H!t. AGRC. LAND           8.t       10.4        14.1             131.8                    449.0
POPELAraON ACE STRUCTURE  )
0-1  MRS                        45.3       46.1        47.3              45.9                     43.9
15-6 TRS                         52.5       51.4        50.1              51.2                     52.8
65 AND ABOVE                      2.         2.5         2.6               2.8                      3.3
POPULATIOs CROI.T RATE CZ)
TarAL                             2.4        2.6         3.1               2.8                      2.9
L DRIA.S                          5.3         5.2        6.5               5.3                      4.6
CRIDE BIRTH RATE (PER TaOmS)       50.6       49.6        44.4              47.6                     42.5
CRlDE DEATH RATE (PER T"ooS)       24.4       20.1        16.0              15.2                     12.0
CRIOSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.4        3.4         3.3               3.2                      3.0
FiAXY PLAINNNC
ACCEPTORS. ANUAL (TU.US)
UTSERS (2 OF MARRIED 11-0          . -.
FM00 AM NUrIToN
INDEJ OF FOOD PRCD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      99.0       96.0        96.0              95.7                     97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF RFQuiR.tExrs)     87.0       98.0        93.0              97.1                    102.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         58.0       59.0        58.0              56.0                     72.0
OF SHICH A.LYD   AND PULSE      14.0        16.0       14.0fe            17.2                     17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH PATE        33.0       25.6        19.8              23.6                     15.2
NELTN
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      39.7       44.6        50.5              51.9                     57.2
rILFANT HORT. RATE (PER THOUS)    151.3      125.2       104.1             117.6                    106.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                              ..        37.0       42.0/d            25.4                     59.3
URBA                               ..       70.0        86.D7i            70.5                     64.9
RURAL                              -.       Z2.0        16.07jr           12.3                     37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                              ..        16.0       42.0fd
URBAN                              ..       12.0        87.07?.
RURAL                              -.        18.0       16.07;
PoPULTlTOtI PERt PHYSICIA        9540.0     8140.0      7670.0           12181.6                   3536.0
PoP. PER .URSIrN  PERSON         9920.0/.   2430.0      1730.0            2292.0                   1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                           360.0       300.0      270.0/f          1075.4                    643. 3
ItRRA                          10.0/e        ..       350.07M           402.3                    545.0
RtRAL                           470.0rT        '       240.07?          3926.7                   2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BER           .         ..        31.0/f              --                     26.4
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ,,         4
RURAL                              ..          -----''
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/WON
TOTAL                              .         2.6
URBA                               ..          ...
RCRAL U M
ACCEtS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..                ..                     46.2
URBAN                            27.5          ..         ..                ..                     77.6
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                ..                     16.1
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 28 -                                               ANNME 1
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A
ZAMBIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS  AL SMELT
ZAMBIA                               REVERENCE cROUS (WEIGHTEO  AERGE) /a
S                         (S  REEN  ESTIMATE) lb
neotk  197/b  RECT  lb             IbDDLE INCOH          MIDDE lDc
19601A     1ml-0- ESTInAmW-        AFmiC S. OF SAHRA   M. mICA & MV EAST
ADJUSTED CNROLLJEST RA TIOS
ERLIARY:   TOTAL                  42.0        89.0        95.0               97.2                      89.6
hALE                   51.0        99.0       101.0              103.1                     106.8
FtOULE                 34.0        79.0        89.0               88.5                      7Z.4
SEcoNK%rT: TOTAL                   2.0        13.0        17.0               17.2                      41.7
r[ALE                   3.0        17.0        2Z.0               23.5                      52.8
FILL                    1.0         6.0        11.0               14.2                      31.2
VOCATIONAL CT OF SECOUUI)           27.S         3.2         3.01f              5.2                      10.3
PUPIL-r-ACMER RATLO
PuLWJY                            50.0        47.0        49.01f             42.9                      31.9
SECMIOAr                          14.0        2Z.0        22.77              23.7                      23.3
ADULT LTEILEAC  RATE (Z)            28.5/e      47.3        44.0               37.1                      43.3
COOUFI
PASSESCER CARS/TAOUSASO POP         10.2        14.S        LS.7k              18.8                      18.0
RADIO KEEVERS/OUSASD POP             4.7/f      18.0        23.9               97.S                     138.1
TV RECEIVEITUSAND POP                 *-         4.1        10.6               18.6                      45.6
EUSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
IXTERST-) CIRCULATION
PEa UouSAXD  PoPULATios             5.0        13.7        19.9               18.2                      31.0
C IA   UAL ATTEMDAICEICAfPTA         ..          ..         0.3/f              0.6                       1.7
OAL LAOR FOtR  rdOoS)    S          32.0      1621.0      2098.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.3        32.6        32.4               36.1                      10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             79.0        73.0        67.0               56.8                      42.5
0DNUSTRT (PeRCE1T)                 7.0         S.0        11.0               17.5                      27.8
FIARTICEPATU1 RATE (PERCEhT)
TOTAL                             41.Z        39.0        35.9               37.0                      25.6
. A LE                            55.3        52.9        69.5               47.1                      45.4
ECIALE                            27.3        25.2        ZZ.H               27.0                       5.6
ECoOMIC DEPENUESac  RATIO            l.2         1.2         1.4                1.3                       1.o
1SIS DISTRIZUTUN
PERCESr oF PAIVATE X&COI
RECEIVED by
HIGUEST 55 OF HOUSCHOLDS          33.7        23.0.b
HaGNEST 204  OF SOOEOLDS          5d.Z        63.0w       56.7/L
LOWEST ZO  OF WUoscOLoS            5.4         3.8Qi       3.61!
LOIEST 4il OF ISOSENOLDS          13.0        10.1O       11.1*
r_WZ      TANE XEN 
ESTIMATE  ABSOLUE POVEMR lNCOME
LEVEL CUSs PEr CAPITA)
URRAN                               ..          ..       267.01f            534.2                     276.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       t68.af             255.9                     177.1
LSTrIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAM                                ..          ..       l26.0/f            491.5                     400.0
tURAL                               ..          ..        oS.07             1g.1                      283.3
ESTI1ATEu POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEnY 1NOME LEVEL (:)
tlRHU                               ..          ..        25.0/f                                       22.0
RURAL                               ......30.1s
.OT AVAILABLE
NOM APPLICABLE
0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are population-wlgbted .rithumttc mans-.  Conerne of countris  -aon  the
Lndlcator, depends on availabtllty of data and iL not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwlse noted  Data for 19604 refer to any year betvwn 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Eatimte- betwen 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1963; If 1978; J  1976; lh 1973; /J 1962.
May 1983
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 29 -                                                                  ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
rate.:  Alti.q  th  dtaa d   dos  It  5..o   so.tli  ja4de  lb. sal .aohsonital.  -ad r.ll .. It .h..Id ..  ho matl that thoy  sy oat h. Ieoc-toeaaIyF
oaep-ar.i  0.0  of th  t1ok of .5ttri55d dOttOllOaf- oat copta sat by Eljf 1.000               irio     ..aaIt-icu no  at. ft   - dote  -o   -thuL-a. .5.1 L.
Its. orexm- ,are   se  I bo  ea-  -.at.  o.-. ad Io _b.ska           an   a.t- i2) . g.ao. So.-p LnO a-Shot high., sno     ta-   1t- tain msoy jteep at tk.
sojo   e y(o.cr.p tar -ash 3..e- at, raPeroerr reap a..- ,asdz.- la . rank  Uric, asd MUd!. Ntaa   Laoh.. boss-e  ito.wo  sco-aio
sflitsl   ao. t -.-oa. Saop tot  iib. aa oa.   MMpeltla  _lot"ts   "othtol            _ o a to  .ath latoIat so  snsl   a. a.)rlt  at the  -scfleo- isa
sopboo data Far not tiadsoart  Stor  th  cnt, of casttoe               WWto  Ui-ttr  dopOss- -  oh aalsiIy  tdt  a  is                 at.-.  -atao- t ho b
-osgote  to .ost     -oenso  at  stdleta  is sotobo.  fl-a.             n ata.- r  ely ante& I. aaauqthe.lo.so  I atr    t. Us ae" Lb.ta5lO
SEt (chosased oa.h..I                                        fr~~U~f4~ia. - ftp.2.oolsI   lidad" by tS                  f poaotiotg
____- rtak  .tito  - roteisis  lead aoa sd lateW noon; low                                        jg.Vi        ns  odto=  -ohoa  -t              t-o.Iy Lol.
1q70 aad t90 dais.                                                                       Poalatta  -t *artos ftor- - Paooulale  dIvided by oar .   tooteitsa
totiaitasl    Ettoot at  - st..t..al  M.s s.1 toooali, a. Monotl                       oak as   oaI. grfeis sona  aot.tan iao.prootot   -nea  as
I.e cran.tooa-.  -O..a .a  klebaa saroo   at  Lt. lallast ito.                             sarim  allts
1970 sad     4- o.                                                                       Pptos  -  ro -Io  Sod - toil. eto,st oo     tq is  Cotal.
e   -a. o   -Lt  ditist ky oatr iaorsgt  ln. at Osot-l hod.
COP t   CUTO  191  - oP Pot -Fpi- _-t .0. at               -,dt  .tbal rta.                    _ooiabi . itanic. .a   wing. a-oo  oad apoollioo  b.taspt   Os
caicIaot 57on.ceaotis  s-tf a v-Id Osok atla  4a970st1 bano:                           talihiltsti- oaaar. 0.apjsoa. at a_gbltaoto  p.aol1  otaf t
900. 910. sad 90! d.ta.                                                                   by . at 1-0a   *iaaicia.  taiaktthaa.-. r.eiJln  retorloly o.oadliI
Oat at  M0 lele           --Ibe   mtapta.0 b.a-a. tolade haelth -s
reactattt.toer.-na  artco   oaoaeelao  oooait                                                  si1-l aoo   -   ro _ Ionh  otattd by a pbytLola  It- by a OsI-1
.iato  .osy least sod liit. ps-oia. atonL gsoa  k ydr-, osoa_                               aosla'-a. 000. st-It-. at..) fLiLc  allo  is-pint-  ata-aoias   W
sa..I tora o-. L.olifli  hiltra of eel rqolo!-o  p.r apii.                                   P-M.id  a iolotd raa  at OsisI f-.tllila.  Pa- =ostsolaltoa
990. 3910. a   19in data.                                                                   oiA- hspttaLa I-lo.e 53  pra.Mtpstlaaos  hoso-loa. aSd  -.a
bMpdoal. loe   trtsl olosis Os edits! Os osttItycnt.
titrt.sram  atos.sraofl                                                                    0oalIs  a,aa    r  oiad6d                    --ySr tas.
o                  r~~iiflM pt12M    M iiivr  css.aolJ - A. o . -1     1; 1950. 1q70. -s gaol                 JW-ta..   e raaolti04   Taos   MS taasto   a.ordiothooga
UrT.. Uo.Loio  tooM f o-ooa) - taft!.o  O*o Ms iota  rapol-c:
dil eooidaistisa a reho  -oa  so  allt  .op.etelLtty at dft
Psyoatls t  -t7510- Ctta  Iapsialtl.  p-ajsilas  a." hoe  -  liSt                  Os  httoi ose   * hsat-dar  a. loda -y oM oy an ha Iseda  iS.
total.aroetloaho Se Os   s oo  thoir e-tIly Os tootlllty                        ob  oohtd  s ooaLotia  'psreao
-spta I-ce  I.-L   W Os lasIe 111  .opt=ar stak!.t!ai  at P7.1                           d-eliLas   eool..            oLiat  ant."  --o-iae  atoa-or- Os
aaitod.Lea  1 trtlt  saSsisIoa. -alOs a  lolyAgos U,lrttoo  (orot t a. ies-  aai shs.aSrtaI
pls_d'   -elo.t   tad  tenOr  Is tha  sos..Igos s-e   tho= et.                           Caso.1as  darlIltavt  elaoruct  Ial L                ept,0. a. "M -.eiaj
oekiotae   ateratt   Os fatit:z5  trpsooa  ppoe. -t--a. a"at aSd rata  deritisse oar.pola
oloe O. hou  te. t n t!   . oodet  ra.to. Os- al. th  os                      OtSD
ott-tatereatia.  anteat.   hia Is ahtaeod ay stoo  fotottiy te.               tttlrte           Olls-
delia.is th  roplososo  lavolat an   -  rooedsotao o lo.tos              rotot  --taI - -ota. oat. Osfao   - Cra-  tota. osl  O  ls-I.
sa.soe   f laa  a -.oploo  It-It oatiy       a  otise                              aoosk"M.n-F.11 e__     at'S   th  tsaylaa -  parostao  aF -aopntl
-rh slOMe   l.n stard-o    ai of O. rtajoroadckorg.r-rrtoat io%ol-at yePoiaoL-oa  -aoaLy iaosda  .hLLd-a iqo  h-It
tools 'at lb.  ea!oes  kyst200e. sod tho not o  dtlin of                                   yer  o  djaa   a  dllloiol IsN.ih    F prios-y Sareta.: I
toot Lity.  M.o ta r-plao.s  I-L.                                                          t-mrtas f1til a.totaa  Su ti.. aerLIoes  00  --ea   100 wr.n
Teatgoaoa.at e.rlaoA. istttbd - lb. to-  A. oto1-ary                                  tIn,  s-  roplli "rbhl.1  -  ahao  tk. alfti    schoo  mare.
F-UN~a,  - u-sa   oalts   per oq Ms                -  (ien to110 k.tar) sO                    prasda ts-ra. vaccoloel 00 ft-ook   oriso  t2rettlaa  tI
ttli~:10.1970. s-` is- data.                                                      paL,.  -ael aS ii ta 17 yoa  s-aoF          ar.!5saoata   e
Ptt .e ho- .otclari  a   - Cosatd a. she  let arettoelataiad                                  stil   elsdad.
anyT; 1500,19 fll    1 a D ito data                                                     aottalarloe   rtos   locoa    - vacate.a  Itaiilatao
ftlai. o Sore-ar Ir,-sso    OtCldta  101-f  -et)  skle0.0  CII~-                       toots       . 500s   A.loti           M- toa   r0r  tc  epota  ladeod
hI7ae)  a  roltad 1k2 -oer  b5 ns           - a   cre 1ia  at ol-eresl   r-   daotot  1atadrAy ia.iltti-os
rosit..  00. 1910. Os t90  ata.-ttitat     ai   .I-tet. aS! -saaa    - Thol otod-M  -oralId 10
7saaolat-s Gteet  ta. fa-treO    00. I .i  dos sshraof tea  oid-                             r_or   -orodt  ovt  irdt by snot  atiF                  hr  t  h  o
year poai.rta  i9511-a. 19001-7. od 3970-ti.                                               t.psdlog lane!..
Paitst-  atahLo  rca)-  r.     aa   toh  ec   fsb"otItaetrt   ooas  - TLleool                                                           I" adosa  oh M to to d O  oto) a
paycalb - to    1-0.100t*Os11-0.                                                         a  or.o       ttoa   olt "aplatas wgd IS Pate Os a-.
(rod. itrth U.o (it ahoaad) - Moos ltvo bink. P-r thosad efod
,ea pa -saoss  t~t. 1970, -ot tiOl dat.                                                      tl
Crod. hasI too   Mre Ist-di - noe  4-acb par tihoand of atd.yartaoa,  C-r (no  tloasad rsl                                      Pe     ..e.ao tan __ apriaoo
roroota;  590  :lo -         :981 hi.1 .u                       L  btort oL.oiisle -h                        t- ees    o Ielde                   t.,haoeO
iqrn.                                                               llcaoaad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1M        -   -ote-t  . taeM-l an  L. yert W-s  rilatsof tsdi
prarat                                                                                   'M 7 raolos et baa  arlell) - TV MnoSev  for bodoto fto
wtell  PMItos_isa-2    Menrolootii  pe ossaa  ppao'; -arl1-t oultasd TV rateto
te toere...                                                                               tlcosts  a   dn  Oeoalcsaoo   eoarr  doV tad   t.etodct
1.04 a,d Is s coietar gar ho ts. -Cn -t 15moo       -raey  o.. Mal              Cl .e MastIf It Lo.a  pp.r -tit 1- Toot .- 1.0 s.-b             aro
.a.dace P od oda   ear   itha.  a-dlklr  o  s-iI  ostiost.. Ce.s.                          ttcoo  eld t             "a"&oi    tUa rot.  ntale    Meit. to . dv-la dosF O
hse  -  etteal  -eea. poad-`o Pta., oshoa  1901-hi. 910. -s 1991
for tstoooiea   .eir    -oe   S  oat.at)- Cogad Itfr-r a  Fatb.(io.asd) - tcae-sicsti  -.tLn rora. telodlasta
siLry  tstota    01.0  LO oapta _cIlhia in oe.ry P.r aeplt  P.t                                 --s.  5  aPLoy    hat esadm  Ooaotlsa. soot.ao,tsr-lo
to7.  -rsi'thte ep,Ilso taro- doeati  _rolttia. tapart  boa                                p."st-la  at sIt as..   hlts L'o        to vatattntio   na
oport.' W.1 chs.sc  to conk, a.         pia  -aLi." so&-I ted, nods.                       coopaeblo  1900, 1970 Os  9"i data.
lotIla.s   tla  r.e s  Os laa--  to dfttrihlioa.                                   Vo.aI.jpny     -tes.  !ha Lb,Forgo.     tro sof M.15  lbor la-ta.
-asloeo00  eetietid hFAD bOsW -  Phtolieoloal oad. lao-- ceesl.1                                 (      .    LAbor fort  it looing. lo-oory, bcln Os
scotott  sat hosth oaltotls  anta-sat  oMrotto  hody s-Nt.                                   ioi  a ro.-tatsr at tota  lake  ter.; 900. 970 Med aiin dat.
eooas  an d             fcohlo   at r Io 1-o. and sliawt. IC M-.oo  let -sUidastt  Citte) - IsAr,C. tot     ftosini9,taite a  .a.aettjsLe
at haa.ld lays: tihi-OS, 1970 aS  iqlK  MUt.                                                 -et cLotrIt7ol.  ator .5d ,- so plrsns  of otatl lbor fert; 1900.
Fo c  ,isorolt Lt eroofoeaw   a) - It-t-l   --Cie  of Mo "sPt"                            90O       Ltdaa
-t eplyq  t.g rt da.  l.t eprl or fool to dottod at ab-...PltotoSl  rrst   - toal oa-aI                                            oo.-  patftclpalo  or
Naqoo--aet lot .11 ostoes booitstd by Mitt pt-ridr lao eistin                              esitiyri    t  opattatt;  oe   ssl   aa   ot
tla fo.   at0 st-  or  -1e P-ooti pot dq -A  20 s-s  af esniO  M1cs  0Ilita,oi  n   otl   ootloa  sI1agoe t.p-.sieeyl
ros*ctts  o   itch l0 stoa  Si.d ho ssaa  Pr-to.. lose                            29*0, 910. Os iN   data. Thoe  - hoed stILWs pali1peti..sa
.oao..drt  stolen  ot- thoa al is otao st tota  Prootl  Os flgm-oo                         tofeto  no--t strno. of tO. popotIta   td lore Ita. trs.  A
at atl  "-l erti   a. a - ecta   ' tot i  to. n W, opee  h   S  o  h by. e.ttt    -  tro  soi-lo   sva
This cord ?ed s..-.r  list-hi, a970  d  3901 dai.                                        losI   atdoo   ie.Mtte at popoltlo  -oor tI Os h5 Ose    i
for tarlts r`-el oari L   tea     ;.Il Os  -sIo  - tt-otl  oaPppy -C tOs                     tha  Msa  las  tts
do.tee  tos sool   5pls   . irt   Mr damm  1lII   970 Os 1i??
dais.                                                            l!~~~~~~~~~~~~~tSCC DniUIotTIOo
Caoid asa 141Soeh ao.(1.0 haage)   antidoshopertheoad I                    M~flUWa.t,tts-(bth s  sh   s  ind .tociad b  tchby                         
"sV   o.  -oyas  scaioei 101M. sAepI. fao st dit-pe                                           oea.ttka   0ptot   ooeti   otn   5poolo  40 pr-too .1
caoistot  dtrisa  fos tIle ishlo; 900. 970 -s  i",dta                                oohlo
at hn,a;190. 290 aSIL data                                                          et_Id k. 1notpt.d alO  aelbIrsloagt.
Isfoat oroleSotto oasd    A- aot deaths. e .f ilao  Os.r                                   Eole_atAs     I iheaoptotto.i e  Ira.  (ttis pt ptato) - arhbs Os totlI
stt  ppl(ITcise   oaa   .ft   ot   ta ao  hot - -__ --t -                             iaie tsdnlttl  PaatA.s.lvllS   rrat)-sb  Os tota
ntcslsaie4 eor .oah -  td.c fin   p          -ocAd hboehlt. sprItn, tad                    OtoR-.I     a   e.t   ns    o!i eaelta -vo....po c-Pita
-II.oar  sotto  as pet_e__o  at thi  a.tI               lttoa-.  it a                      ta--at  ltao  of tOo  -an .  MOslest! t* L d-rt-a  Iro  0k. reos
arbe   o.apobIlc toaOtol - otalpae  laaa-d an st  at.. 200 steo                            lae aIth odJeeet for bi,b- rmoot  IaFu Is e.tho. eao
to     ma   eay ha Melta   - hlo  aCithl  tOa-ble a.ae  St tho                     ottdPtlts0..  alt  hnt  e-.to!ftet     ra
hos.intot sos   eaotiaatte,a,  oply  kto lb. ba-vIto. atO                                       rrt!.Wtrtn   tparalatis  isths Osrar no-1           elsi
ooref tOo hoasehod da an     My to  pe  a diop-"t.poi t  Wfn at
tbo to   10 ltiii  the tsslyo  ta   a5o
57 _telost 0k. _to_lcto  ad olapocl arid or althe-t ro        egof                                                          Zcasot  Oshalt hft" DMIotl
hose  __ttei   S s_-t       t by ni--hota  opnalo. s-a   pt Pa.                                                                b   alyoio. Os lj-tis-  oportosa-
pot.!., O   sILIlar Istlltes.ry 19513



-30-                                  aUI
Rap 4 of 5
ZANt
OM0M DOICA
noaito:         5.842 mU 1m (mid-M)
GIP per Capita: Us$600 (mid-1981)
Amt              Share of GDP at           A3mrar Amual
(NLLlloa [S$     Qirzeit M3rIet Prices          Growth (Z)
bxiicator       at Orrent Prices)           (percent)        (at (xnta9t 1970 Prices)
1982        1970  1975  1980  1982  1970-75  1975-0  19D-
Gcws Dastic Product         3,830        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   3.0    -0.9     1.3
Agriculture                 53)         10.7  13.0  14.2  13.6   2.7        0.5    -2.2
Minirg                      432         36.3  13.6  16.1  11.3   0.0    -3.0         4.3
Other Indty1                932         18.5  28.1  23.7  24.3   8.3    -0.2         1.2
Services                  1,946         34.5  45.3  46.0  50.8   3.2        0.4     0.3
Cxnsuntion                  3,631         54.6  79.0  81.4  94.8   3.4        0.0     3.7
Gross Iavestment              648         28.4  40.5  23.4  16.9   4.1    -16.9   -22.4
Eiports E Goods & hIS       1,050         54.0  36.3  42.2  27.4   0.5       -3.5     0.4
Iq2orts of Goods & NFS      1,498         37.1  55.8  47.0  39.1  -1.2       -9.0   -18.5
Gross Domestic Savivs         199         45.4  21.0  18.6   5.2  -9.9        0.0   -57.7
GOVERr FIAJi                 Gorernlv,      n           otral Gbmxemx     (1982)
(K MU.)      Z ofP          (KIn.)         Z of GDP
Curnt  ecelipts                                           878.7          24.7
.wreut pErniuces                                         1,323.0         37.1
Crent aSupis                                             -444.3         -12.4
C8pa.tL Epeditures                                        320.2           8.9
E,Rxtnai Firndrg                                           192.9          5.4
10!, a()  and PRICES                   1970   1975   1980   1981   1982   1983
_______                  -         T1]io~iEnReZod)             -~
Money and Qms Honey                     356    493    907    979   1309   1398
Bark Qreit to Goverwent                -164    318   1355   1495   1983   2116
Bark Credit to Private Sector4          137    393    505    765    905    985
(Percenitaw of Index Nummd~z)
Mey andQa  oney as % of GOP              28.1   31.3   30.1   28.4   36.7    n.a.
ihilesale Price Indc  (1966=100)5       116.4  188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.0
Anmmal perentai duge in.
WhDlesale Price Irex                    2.5   16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.1
Bark Credit to (Ceruent               -'0.8  406.9   20.8   10.3   32.7    6.7
Bark Crdit to Private Sector4          25.0   17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3    8.8
1 M      tixg, construction, electricity, 3s aid water.
2 pIgures dD not differ sigf     y fr   CentralGovernent.
3 End-Septemier 1983.
4 Inebxies prastatal o    zatos.                                                  EAI
5 Al daesicaly uoed goods.                                                        Jan. 1984



- 31-                                     ANEXI  I
Page 5 dE 5
TDA   PAWS AND CAP&A PIW
BALAN  OF PATis                                                1UAEIN      EWFlU;S 1982
1980   1981   1982   1983
( LI.ions US$)  (Est.)                         Us$ min.
Exports oE Goods, NOS         1,611   1,126   1,050   1,100    Qper                    843      90
lIports of Goods, NES         1,795   1,608  1,499   1,200    Cobal                     30       3
Resource Gap (deficit ' -)    -183   -482   -49    -100    lead and Zinc                30       3
AU otber CamUdAties    41         4
Factor Services (net)1        -321   -271   -238   -200          Tbtal          94       3    100
Net Transfers2                -144   -101    -30    4.0                                   -     -
Balance an Current ADccut  864    -'853   716   -340
EC4A  DE, Dc. 31, 1982
Official  ants                   30     26      30      40
iLrect Foreign   temt            ..     ..    .. a..                                         I Mln.
Net HZ IBrradrg                 437    210    238    230    Rlj Deblit,  l. guatee  2,380.6
DIsM_rseneots                 624    400    334    300    NioI-Gurante8d Privte Debt          so
&vrtizatin           B187    190              96      70    IbtA Outstarding & Disused 2,380.6
Net IU                           8     367    -49       64
External Panent Arrears         136     53    186       we
Other Items (n.e.i.)             39    159    396    -34    ir SESIZE RATMO FOR 19823
arge in Reserves                -1      38    -8        40                                    Z
- = increase)
Rbic Deibt, il. garanteed  17.5
Mhurandum Items                                                N     1xummuteed Private Debt   so
tal ntstailg & Disburse  17.5
Gross Int'L Rserves              90     52    140    100
(f,5s aE Imports, f.o.b.)      (4.2)  (2.7)  (7.4)  (5.8)
Ourent V/C BaL as % GDP       -17.0  -21.6  -18.7  -10.3   DhgIJi in     SeptemIber 30, 1983
(Milio  W$)
RATES OF EMQRNE                                                                         IBD    MA
us$
Outstandiig & Disbuwed 341.87  20.18
1980                         1.2682                            lidLsbursed              61.60  87.87
1981                        1.1466                            OUtaxldLg miI.
1982                         1.0748                              UkUsbursed            403.47  108.05
1983                         0.7800(
I Inacudg contract salary and grauities traifers.
2  clUing official gs  and COtraCt salaxy ard gratuitLes tBansers
3 Ratio dE debt service on MLT debt, e:xcdlg arrears ard IMF repaynerts, to exports oE giods and
non-factor services.
..not avaiLable                                                                         January 1984



- 32 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of September 30, 1983
Amount in US$ Million
(Less Cancellation)
Loan   Credit                                                                    Undisbursed
No.    No.      Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Loan Credit
17 Loans fully
disbursed                                358.63
900-1            1973   Zambia            Education               33.00          0.62
1131            1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications        32.00          4.81
1356            1977   Zambia             Education               13.30          4.89
1424            1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry    16.80           0.88
1566    798     1978   Zambia             Third Highway           11.25  11.25 11.25  10.39
863     1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                6.00          2.16
873     1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance             5.00          3.72
1790    973     1980   Zambia             Third Railway           25.00  15.00 15.87   2.78
1923            1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company          15.00          3.37
2001             1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00         10.10
1193     1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development             18.00         17.72
1196     1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.           7.50          7.29
1251     1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                 25.00         23.51
2151            1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company          Oil Refinery              5.10          4.87
2152            1982   Zambia             Pet. Exploration         6.60          4.94
1333     1983   Zambia            Naamba Coal Eng.                 4.30          4.30
1362     1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply              10.00         10.00
SF2      1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply               6.00          6.00
Total                                           527.68 108.05 61.60  87.87
of which has been repaid                       124.10    -      -      -
Total now outstanding                           403.58 108.05   -       -
Amounts sold                        28.58
of which has been repaid          28.47          0.11    -      -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                      403.47 108.05   -
of which is undisbursed                         61.60  87.87
NOTES:  The US$22.4 million credit for the Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III,
approved by IDA on January 10, 1984, has not yet been signed.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Investment                                                       US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Business         Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -       1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483-ZA6    1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -      28.00
527-ZA     1980   Kaf ue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -       7.60
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                         28.85    -      28.85
Total gross commitments                    67.38   0.98   68.36
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    14.18   0.81   14.99
Total now held by IFC                      53.20   0.17   53.37
Total undisbursed                          26.96    -      26.96
NOTE: An investment of US$18.7 million in Zambia Hotel Properties Limited was
approved by IFC on May 31, 1983, but is not yet signed.



- 34 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project   :   22 months
(b)  Project preppred by               :   ZCCm
(c)  First presentation to the Bank  :  February 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission  :  February 1982
(e)  Post-appraisal mission            :  March 1983
(f)  Negotiations                      :  January 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness   :  May 1984
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) Review of conditions precedent to, and approval of, release of
the second tranche of the Bank loan (para. 67).
(b) US$0.4 million retroactive financing for cost of consulting
services incurred after July 31, 1983 (para. 75).
(c) Contributions to a Special Account to facilitate procurement out
of Bank resources (para. 76).
III. Special Conditions
(a) Release of second tranche of Bank loan is conditoned on:
- satisfactory progress by the borrower on an action
program for economic reform (para. 67);
- the Bank, the Government and ZCCH having agreed on the
implementation of an action program to carry out ZCCM's
production and investment strategies, including, for the
L986-88 period, year-by-year targets for cutting overhead
costs, reducing dilution, and increasing mine produc-
tivity, an implementation plan for closure of financially
and economically nonviable operations, and priority
ranking of replacement/new investment (para. 67); and
- satisfactory amounts of foreign exchange having been made
available to the Company in the preceding 12 months by
the Goverament (para. 67).
(b)  ZCCM to carry out its operations in accordance with international
health, safety and pollution control standards (para. 71).



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MEMORANDUM ON DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
PURPOSE
1.        This memorandum sets out the Government's current development
objectives and describes a number of actions and measures which the Govern-
ment intends to take to help achieve structural change in the economy and
better economic management.
BACKGROUND
2.        For a number of years, the Zambian economy has experienced severe
external and internal financial difficulties. Foreign reserves have dwindled
and external payment arrears have built up. Fiscal deficits have led to a
high rate of domestic inflation. The scarcity of external and domestic fi-
nancial resources has caused imports, investments and maintenance of capital
stock to decline. As a result, the economy's productive capacity has become
increasingly under-utilized, production and employment have stagnated.
3.        To a large extent, external factors beyond the Government's control
account for these developments. Weak copper prices and increasing costs of
production in the mining sector have adversely affected foreign exchange
earnings and government revenue. Droughts in recent years made substantial
food imports unavoidable. Zambia's economy has also suffered from the
unsettled political situation in the region, from increases in oil prices,
and from disruptions of transport routes outside its borders.
4.        The Government recognizes that in the changed circumstances a
number of economic policies need to be made more conducive to achieve
financial equilibrium and economic growth. Pricing, exchange rate and tariff
policies need to provide the incentives necessary to realize the country's
potential of agricultural and industrial productioa and to stimulate diversi-
fication and export growth. Large budget deficits have led to a pattern of
over-consumption and falling investment as a result of these deficits being
used to finance recurrent expenditure. As a consequence, the composition of
Government expenditure has become less and less supportive of the development
effort.  Also, although many parastatal enterpris. have become less
unprofitable and Less dependent on subvention from the budget a greater
degree of efficiency is still required.
5.        Achieving the Government's prime goal of healthy economic growth
requires first of all the restoration of financial stability. But equally
important and urgent is the initiation of a programme of structural adjust-
ment which will bring the economy back on a path of sustainable growth and
which will lead to economic diversification. In drawing up a programme of
growth and diversification, the Government will be guided by three key
considerations:
(i)    to provide adequate economic incentives for production of
both agriculture and locally manufactured exports;



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
(ii)   to enhance the international competitiveness of the economy;
and
(iii)  to allocate resources in such a manner that they support the
preceding objectives.
GOVERNMENT MEASURES
6.        The Government has already taken a number of steps to correct the
financial imbalances in the economy. In May 1981, an agreement was reached
with the International Monetary Fund (CU) on the use of a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The policies pursued under the EFF aimed at
the resumption of a sustainable rate of growth while achieving progressive
improvements in the Balance of Payments, Under the programme, measures re-
lated to ceilings on domestic bank financing and external borrowing, limits
to credit expansion and external payment arrears were pursued. Some progress
has been made in the attainment of several of the objectives spelled out in
the EFF programme, while some difficulties have been encountered with
others. The Government is currently engaged in disucssions with the IMF
on targets and policies to be pursued in the near future in respect of its
latest application for a standby facility. It is the Government's firm
intention to retain access to the facilities of the IMF.
7.        Meanwhile, a number of other measures to affect both demand and
supply conditions in the economy were initiated, including the following:
-      A commitment to eliminate subsidies over a period, as well
as to reduce fertilizer and maize subsidies. In the 1981
budget R125 million was allocated to these subsidies but
only K107 nmllion was spent. The provision for 1982 was
reduced to K89 million. However, the actual expenditure
rose to X153 million mainly due to maize imports
necessitated by the drought. The provision for 1983 is
set at K62 million.
-      In the 1981 budget, the maximum tax rate on farming income
was reduced from 80 to 25 percent, while in the 1982 budget
this rate was reduced further to 15 percent.
-      Annual review and adjustment of agricultural producer
prices to provide adequate incentives to farmers so as
to efficiently substitute imports and promote exports.
-      Adoption of the principle of economic pricing for parastatal
enterprises.
8.        In drawing up the annual capital expenditure budget, consideration
has been given to changes in resource availabilities and it is the Govern-
ment's commitment to increase in real terms the recurrent departmental
charges available to the productive sectors, particularly agriculture.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 9
9.        The proposed mining rehabilitation programme is intended to arrest
the decline in copper production and enhance the efficiency and profitability
of the mlning sector. It is expected to increase net export earnings and
Government revenues in the medium term. It is therefore an important element
in the programme of redressing financial imbalances, and it will allow,
through larger foreign exchange allocations, an increase in the capacity
utilization of the productive sectors. It is not, bowever, a solution to
the longer-term structural problems of the Zambian economy. Because of the
projected long-term decline in production and exports of copper resulting
from the depletion of ore reserves, there is an urgent need to develop viable
alternative sources of production and exports. Zambia is endowed with
alternative sources of wealth. It has excellent potential for increasing
agricultural production and exports, and prospects for export-led industrial
development based on agricultural products and other domestic resources are
also good.
FURTHER ACTION
10.       The Government I. resolved to take such further action as is
necessary to bring about a resumption of economic growth and diversifica-
tion of production and exports, and to continue with the policies which
would promote structural change in the economy.
11.       Developing a comprehensive and coherent set of adjustment policies,
and devising concrete measures to effect the desired changes in the economy
is a difficult task that may take a number of years to implement. IQ several
instances, studies will be necessary to provide the proper analytical under-
pinning of policy objectives. The Government recognizes that its own
analytical capabilities need to be strengthened, and it therefore welcomes
the World Bank's technical assistance in training Zambians to plan and imple-
ment its programme of economic adjustment and in carrying out supporting
studies.
12.       It is possible and necessary, however, to initiate a number of DeW
adjustment measures before the results of those studies are available.
Building on institutional arrangements already made, the Government intends
to take in the immediate future a number of steps which are supportive of its
objective of diversifying production and exports and achieving better manage-
ment of resources. These measures will be aimed at:
Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters
of agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces.
Evolving a system that encourages co-operatives and other
agents in the procurement and selling of food crops in
which, except for maize, NAMBOARD will as the buyer and
seller of last resort to ensure the effectiveness of incen-
tive pricing.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
-      Mobilization and allocation of resources for development
through improved planning, budgetary and other procedures to
shift resources to productive investment.
-      Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of increasing consumption and declining investment.
-      Improving management of foreign debt.
-      Continuing the programme of reform already started in
respect of parastatal enterprises by strengthening the
technical and management capacity of ZIMCU.
-      Restructuring the energy sector with a view to bringing
about lesser dependence on imported oil.
-      Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy.
The programmes to implement the above measures are spelt out in oDre detail
in the foliowing paragraphs:
PRODUCER INCENTIVES
13.       Past policies, which he'.d prices for agricultural and industrial
products too low, are, to an appreciable-extent, responsible for the dis-
appointing performance of the economy. As stated before, the Government has
already instituted annual review of agricultural producer prices with a view
to providing adequate incentives to farmers so as to efficiently substitute
imports and promote exports. For industrial prices the Government has
adopted the policy that they should be based on a clear definition of eco-
nomic prices in terms both of reasonable rates of return based on current
replacement costs and the international competitiveness of production.
Producer prices for agricultural products and prices of several industrial
products have recently been increased.
14.       In May 1981, the Government established the Prices and Incomes Com-
mission (PIC). PIC is set up as a semi-autonomous body, under guidance of a
Consultative Council of Prices and Incomes. With the assistance of a full-
time Secretariat, it has assumed full executive powers in executing the
Government's pricing policies. The members of the Commission and of the
Consultative Council have been appointed and the Secretariat is being pro-
vided with adequate and experienced staff. The Government's role will be to
lay down, through the Consultative Council, general principles and policy
guidelines to be followed. The application of the guidelines are left to
PIC, who will now exert a -post facto" price control. In this respect, ex-
cept for a few essential commodities, the primary responsibility for setting
economic prices now rests with the enterprises, and PIC will review those
prices in the light of the Government's guidelines on a -no objection" basis.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 9
15.       The general principles on which the Government's pricing policies
are based have been set forth above. However, operationally useful guide-
lines will need to be defined with greater precision. Objective method-
ologies and criteria need to be developed to be used in setting comparative
agricultural producer prices and in determining economic prices for indus-
trial products in such a manner that the policy of economic pricing is not
abused by the inefficient producer. The Government also intends to draw up
work programmes for the generation and mintenance of data bases in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development and PIC, which would provide
support for informed pricing decisions and rational allocation of resources
based on the principle of comparative advantage. The Government welcomes
assistance from the World Bank in these matters.
AGRICULTURE
16.       The Government intends to strengthen the Agricultural Planning
capability of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development to enable
policies to be formulated on the basis of a well defined agricultural de-
velopment strategy and welcomes World Bank assistance in this area. Since
Zambia possesses adequate land and water resources to enable a dual approach
to agricultural development which emphasises both small scale and large scale
farming including irrigation, the Government will examine the potential and
requirements of both in the production of food and export crops witbin the
total resources likely to be available.
17.       The Government gives high priority to the promotion of agricultural
small-holder production as an effective means of increasing output and re-
distributing income. Equal in importance to proper price incentives is the
provision of adequate services. The Government intends to review the whole
range of services available to the small-holder, including extension, re-
search, input supply and marketing, to identify inadequacies in the system
and to effect improvements where necessary. The Government welcomes World
Bank assistance in the form of a study on agricultural services and financial
support. The Government will then draw up an action programme for the im-
provement of agricultural services.
18.       Improving marketing services is particularly important in this
respect.  The Government intends to increase the efficiency of the market-
ing system by allowing a degree of competition among the official marketing
organisations, co-operative unions, and private traders. This should
eventually lead to a system in which official producer prices become floor
prices. Such a system already operates for a number of crops such as
Sorghum, Millet and Cassava. However, the volume of marketed output is con-
strained by, among others, poor transportation facilities, lack of facilities
for processing and inadequate credit for farmers. The Government has already
made a start in relieving these constraints.
INDUSTRY
19.       The Government is concerned about the performance of the industrial
sector. Although implementing the policy of economic pricing will increase
the profitability of the sector, the Government feels that further measures



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
are necessary to redress the low efficiency of manufacturing operations of
enterprises; the heavy import dependence of the sector; its small coatribu-
tion to exports and its high capital intensity.
20.       The Government also intends to review its tariff and other indus-
trial policies, an, to consider such changes in policies and incentives as
may be necessary to bring about increased efficiency, high labour intensity
and better export performance. To this end, the Government looks forward to
receiving the findings and recommendations of the Industrial Sector Policies
Mission of the World Bank which could form a basis for further measures aimed
at intensifying import substitution, encouraging exports, improving capacity
utilisation and increasing the efficiency of the sector. The measures aimed
at improving capacity utilisation and increasing efficiencies may require
financial assistance in the form of foreign exchange support for the purchase
of essential raw materials, spare parts and equipment from the Bank and other
donors.
21.       Because of the foreign exchange constraints and the critical need
to develop alternative lines of exports, the Government intends to take
necessary measures to promote manufacturing exports. To this end the Govern-
ment has already introduced a foreign exchange credit system by which any
exporter who earns foreign exchange is given credit of up to 50 per centum of
the foreign exchange earned. Additionally, it has been decided to establish
an Export Guarantee Agency to protect the interests of Zambian exporters.
World Bank assistance in the form of an Export Revolving Fund will be
welcome.
IWMPROVLG BUDGETING AND PLANNING
22.       In the past, lack of co-ordination among the Ministry of Finance,
the National Commission for Development Planning, and executing ministries
led to the preparation of Government investment programmes which were too
large in relation to available resources. Also, the coordination between the
annual recurrent and capital budgets has been less than satisfactory. The
recurrent cost implications of past and new investments were not adequately
considered. As a result, there has been an increasing disinvestment and
under-utilization of existing capital stock. Also resources have been spread
too thinly over too many projects and this has led to delays in execution.
23.       At the request of the Government, the World Bank has recently
carried out a Forward Budgeting Study which is intended to help develop an
overall financial framework for projecting the main budget aggregates,
establishing linkages between recurrent and capital budgets, and defining
procedures for monitoring and setting priorities. These should enable the
Government to increase the share of spending for development purposes. The
Government looks forward to receiving the results and recommendations of this
study, on the basis of which it intends to adopt the practice of medium-term
financial planning and introduction of annual three-year rolling budgets for
both recurrent and capital expenditure. The Government will ensure that
capital budgets will be consistent in size with estimated available re-
sources, and in conformity with the Government's goals of diversifying pro-
duction and exports, and increasing the utilization of existing capital



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 9
stock.  For this purpose, a co-ordinating Committee composed of inter alia,
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the National Commission for
Development Planning will be set up, Executing ministries and agencies will
be instructed to include in their submissions for the capital and recurrent
budgets, estizates of the recurrent cost requirements of the various proj-
ects, including estimates of costs associated with Improving utilization of
existing capital stock. In addition, objective economic criteria will be
developed for investment projects to be included in the capital Budget. The
World Bank assistance in training Zambians would be welcome.
DEBT MANAGEMENT
24.       As a result of large borrowing, Zambia's outstanding debt on medium
and long term more than doubled between 1975 and 1980. The servicing of
these loans, and of the drawings from the IMF and the short-term arrears,
will increase substantially the country's debt service obligations in the
near future. This means that the Government needs to exercise great caution
in contracting external debt. The Government, therefore, will enforce
strictly the existing legislation, which places the sole authority to con-
tract external debt with the Minister of Finance. It will also strengthen
the present debt management unit in the Bank of Zambia in order to avoid
omissions in debt reporting and advise the Government on the implications of
its external borrowing programme. The Government intends to evolve a system
by which integrated annual borrowing programmes will guide its decisions on
external financing. Zambia will seek World Bank's technical assistance in
training local personnel to man the unit.
PARASTATAL ENTERPRISES
25.       In the past three years, the Government already has moved to
improve the efficiency of parastatal enterprises in the ZIMC0 Group.
Representing a major restructuring of ZIMCO's management, the changes
include:
(i)    the severing of direct links between company management and
government ministries previously responsible for operating
decisions; and
(ii)   the establishment of a new Board of Directors and an execu-
tive management group in ZINCO Headquarters responsible for
Group policies, financial and corporate planning, conditions
of service for Group employees and investment decisions.
These measures aim at increasing the commercial orientation of the enter-
prises and have resulted in the institution of a Corporate Salary Structure
and new Conditions of Service, an annual Corporate Budget to establish per-
formance criteria and to review policies including investment decisions,
monthly and quarterly reviews of performance and production constraints, the
carrying out of Management Audits aimed at identifying areas for improvement
in companies, project evaluation, and a weekly fact sheet to inform the ZIMCO
Board, Managers and Government Agencies of the current status of major finan-
cial indicators.



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 9
26.       There has been a substantial effort towards coordination of Gronp
activities, reduction in costs and improvement in managerial efficiency. The
merger of the two mining companies will result in significant cost savings
and greater rationalisation of operations. Many individual companies in the
Finance, Energy, Commercial and particularly in the Manufacturing sectors
have shown improved profitability. Positive steps have been taken to reduce
costs in the Trnasport sector and improve overall operations.  The management
group, guided by the objectives of cost reductions and improved efficiency is
also responsible for the review and evaluation of ZIMCO's pricing policies.
27.       The Government intends to continue to improve the operations of
the ZIMCO Group by strengthening the technical capacity of the management
g,roup in the field of investment analysis and managerial support to Group
zompanies.  A set of investment criteria oriented towards efficient Import
substitution and export promotion will be drawn up. The Government also
looks forward to the early conclusion of the Mining Rehabilitation loan and
to seeking World Bank assistance on other mining projects including small
scale mining to exploit other mineral resources.
28.       The Government will continuc to welcome private participation in
joint equity ventures with ZIMCO, recognising the technical contribution
which private participation can offer to the success of existing or new
enterprises.
ENERGY
29.       Although Zambia's own energy resources are substantial, a con-
siderable proportion of commercial energy is provided by imports of oil.
The mining and commercial transport sectors are the major users of oil and
reduction in oil fuel consumption has occurred due to the general decline in
economic activity. However, the Government is concerned about the increasing
burden of oil imports on the Balance of Payments and realises that a restruc-
turing of energy inputs is necessary.
The Government has already initiated a number of projects in this direction
and these include:
-      Indeni Refinery Modification Study - (financed by the World
Bank)
-      Review of energy use in the Mines with a view to substitu-
tion of oil fuel by hydropower and coal where feasible.
-      Study on the electrification of the railway system (financed
by the World Bank).
-      Study on the rehabilitation of the Colliery - (financed by
the World Bank).
-      Exploration for petroleum deposits - (financed by the World
Bank).



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 9
-      Review of energy pricing.
-      Planned studies on Energy Conservation measures in the
mines, refinery and major coasuming industries.
-      Restructuring of institutional arrangements in the energy
sector for improved planning.
The Government intends to develop a comprehensive energy policy. It looks
forward to receiving the results of the World Bank's recent Energy Assessment
Mission, and intends to consider implementation of its recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS
30.       The Government considers the actions spelled out above as sig-
nificant ste2s towards the formulation of a comprehesive structural adjust-
ment programme. The Government recognizes that the degree of progress with
the economic recovery programme is an important factor in determining the
extent to which external assistance can be used in a meaningful way. To
ensure satisfactory progress, the Government intends to continue to discuss
with the World Bank the implementation and further planning of its programme
of structural adjustment.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
P.O. BOX 50062
LUSAKA
MF/101/22/1                            1st February, 1984
Mr. W. Wapenhans
Vice President
Eastern Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wapenhans:
1.        It has been now a year since my Government sent to you the Memo-
randum of Development Objectives and Policies. The Memorandum, you will
recall, was a statement of the Government's development objectives and its
intentions as regards policy reforms for achieving those objectives. Con-
siderable progress has been made during the past year in carrying out the
macroeconomic and sector reforms specified in the Memorandum, and we believe
that we are well on the way towards establishing the policy framework essen-
tial for undertaking actions needed to bring about the structural changes
urgently required by the Zambian economy.
2.        Of course, much remains to be done, particularly as regards borad-
ening and deepening the reforms already underway and developing investment
strategies and policies in the major economic sectors. In most cases, this
will require further economic and sector work, including in certain circum-
stances in-depth studies. We are committed, I assure you, to carrying out
the reforms specified in the Memorandum of Development Objectives and
Policies, which we see as vital to Zambia's economic recovery and long-term
development.
3.        The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the progress that
has been made on the policy front over the past year and to indicate to you
the specific actions we plan to take in coming months to advance further the
policy reforms enumerated in the Memorandum.
4.        First, let me confirm that it is our intention to negotiation
a standby agreement with the IMF covering 1984 and to seek further debt
rescheduling under the auspices of the Paris Club. As you know, we have
so far been able to meet the IMF's requirements under the 1983 standby and
anticipate that the full amount will be released.
We, in accordance with the goodwill clause in the Paris Club Agreement, ex-
pect to reschedule a large portion of our 1984 maturities with Paris Club
members and our non-Paris Club creditors, as well as our debts with commer-
cial banks. We had very good success with our 1983 reschedulings and expect
the same favourable results in 1984.



- 45 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
5.        You will recall that our major development objectives as specified
In the Memorandum of Development Objectives and Policies included, inter-
alia, production and export diversification, the reversal of past trends
towards excessive consumption, lessened dependence on Imports in consumption
and production, lower capital intensity of production and greater economic
efficiency all around. The main policy actions taken in the context of the
IMF program that are pertinent to achieving these objectives are as follows:
(a)  In January 1983, the Kwacha was devalued by 20 per cent
against SDR. In July 1983, the Government adopted a flexible
exchange rate system that provides a mechanism for further
exchange rate adjustments. Through this system, the Kwacha
has undergone gradual further depreciations, so that between
January 1983 and January 1984 a cumulative devaluation had
been achieved of about 38 per cent against the SDR. As a
result of this, import prices in terms of Kwacha have in-
creased by 62 per cent. The Government is firmly committed to
continue to use the flexible exchange rate system to ensure
the profitability of the mining industry and the competitive-
ness of exports;
(b)  decontrol of wholesale and retail prices of industrial goods
and utility services, with the exception of maize meal, wheat
flour, bread and candles.  As a result of a further reduction
in subsidies, consumer prices of maize meal increased by
30 per cent in May 1983;
Cc)  cutbacks in government expenditures in real terms, reductions
in subsidies, tax increases (including an 8 per cent tax on
mineral export receipts), a freeze on government employment
and wages and a 10 per cent limit on wage increases in the
private sector for 1983. There were no salary and wage
increases in the civil service in 1983;
(d)  establishment of ceilings on net credit to the Government; on
Bank of Zambia credit to ZCCM; and on the amount of external
commercial payment arrears;
(e)  an increase in interest rates to 13 per cent from 12 per cent
on medium-term lending and to 9 per cent from 7 per cent on
deposits; and a
(f)  reduction in the wage bill in the mining sector.
6.        The measures that have been taken are having a favourable impact
on the economy, although inflation has jumped to the 18-22 per cent level
because of price decontrol and devaluation. The consequences of price decon-
trol would not have been so severe had the supply situation been provided for
at the same time. The real exchange rate has improved and has thus enhanced
the competitiveness of Zambian goods and will raise the profitability of
local industry involved in the export trade. The restraint on wage increases
has been an important factor in this regard, and it is significant that the



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
Government has been able to enforce the constraint on wages in the face of
the large devaluation. These effects have been particularly evident in the
case of the mining industry where a major cost-saving effort has been under-
way concurrently. During its past fiscal year (April 1982 - March 1983),
ZCCM reduced its labour cost by 19 per cent from the original budgeted
amount. We plan to continue with and to strengthen the measures needed to
restore the competitiveness of Zambian goods in external markets.
7.        We have also experienced favourable results from the budgetary
measures.  The deficit has been cut from 21 per cent of GDP in 1982 to an
estimated 7 per cent in 1983. Subsidies, which have been a major expenditure
item, were reduced from K154 million in 1982 to K83 million in 1983. Sub-
sidies have been reduced further in this year's budget to K56.6 million and
will be furtlher reduced in subsequent budgets. Perhaps most important is the
increased control that we expect to have over expenditures as a result of the
budgetary reforms introduced recently. We are now in a much better position
to forecast revenues and expenditures and to ensure consistency between the
recurrent and capital budgets. We also are not better able to formulate a
public investment programme that is consistent with our resource availability
and external borrowing capacity. These are major improvements for our
economy.
8.        Among other important results of the reform measures is the impact
of producer price increases on crop plantings. Producer price increases
since December 1982 for some of the more important crops are the following:
sorghum, 167 per cent; rice, 43 per cent; groundnuts 15 per cent; tobacco,
13 per cent; and wheat, 12 per cent. The farm-gate price of maize, by far
the most important crop in Zambia, has been increased by 53 per cent during
the same period. The rise in producer prices has increased the hectarage
under plantation significantly, however, output has not increased com-
mensurately because of the drought.
9.        I hope this gives you some idea of the positive things that have
been happening to our economy. We expect more of the same. For example, the
exchange rate adjustment, increase in interest rates and limit on wage in-
creases, complimented by decontrol of prices will help to correct existing
capital/labour price distortions, thereby bringing more appropriate factor
proportions in production, and should help to reverse past trends of excess
consumption and imports. These measures should also contribute to improve-
ments in economic efficiency and help to relieve pressure o_ the balance of
payments and the budget. The budget will also be supported by the reduction
and eventual elimination of subsidies by a freeze in public sector employ-
ment, reduction in real wages, and by restrictions on government spending and
borrowing.
10.       Substantial progress has also been achieved with regard to the
other economic restructuring policies referred to in the Memorandum. The
prices of practically all goods at the wholesale and retail level are now
free of controls and thus responsive to supply and demand. Private traders
are not free to market agricultural products (with the exception of maize
cotton and tobacco) at whatever price the market will bring. NAMBOARD, whose
function is to offer guaranteed floor prices and markets for agricultural



- 47 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
products, has increased the number of such products for which it offers a
floor price, thus providing greater incentives for the production of tradi-
tional crops such as cassava, sorghum, millet, etc. As a result of these
changes, producers and traders of agricultural goods have strong incentives
to increase their output and activities. Moreover, with the increased pro-
ductivity and exchange rate movements mentioned above, Zambian goods are
becoming increasingly competitive in domestic and foreign markets.
11.       Institutional reforms beyond those cited in the Memorandum have
been introduced to improve economic management. The most important of these
is the creation of a "Special Economic Unit' composed of senior officials
from the main economic ministries, the Cabinet Office, State House, the Bank
of Zambia and the Parastatal Organisations.
Its main function is to prepare and recommend strategies for economic stabil-
ization and structural adjustment and to monitor their implementation. It
has considerable decision-making powers and has proved invaluable for insti-
tuting important policy reforms, Including monitoring of the IMF programme
and the introduction of new budget procedures. Other institutional reforms
recently introduced include improvements in ZIMCO's management, leading to
greater autonomy for firms under its purview; improvements by the Bank of
Zambia and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in foreign exchange budget-
ing and allocation, with the involvement of the private sector; the adoption
of proper debt-mamagement procedures; and improvements in investment pro-
gramming functions of the National Commission for Development Planning. The
Bank's recommendations for reorganizing the Planning Office and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Development have been accepted and partially imple-
mented. This work is continuing.
12.       The foregoing are some of the more important policy reforms imple-
mented thus far.  We are developing further policy changes which we feel are
needed to extend the gains already achieved and we will, of course, be making
further adjustments in these policies based on our experience of their
effects.
13.       As regards specific actions that we propose to take in coming
months, I would like to mention the following:
Related to General Economic Management:
(a) We propose to continue to increase budget allocations for re-
current departmental charges in priority sectors (particularly
in agriculture and highway maintenance) in both absolute and
relative terms. The 1984 budget contains such increases, and
we will continue this practice in subsequent budgets.
(b) We are preparing a three-year public investment programme con-
sistent with forecasts of likely-to-be available financial
resources and with the development objectives set out in the
Memorandum. We expect to institutionalize this effort so that
the annual preparation of a three-year rolling investment



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
programme for the public sector may become standard practice.
The programme currently being prepared for the planned Con-
sultative Group meeting is expected to be ready for review
before the end of Mharch 1984, and the next revision will be
completed with the time frame prescribed for the 1985 budget.
(c) We plan to implement the medium-term recommendations of the
Bank's Forward Budget Study as follows:
(i)    We will prepare by July 1984 an annual plan for 1985
which will be used to allocate available resources
among ministries and form the basis for establishing
the 1985 budget guidelines.
(ii)   We intend to establish by April 1984 a Planning and
Budgeting Committee comprising of staff from the
Ministry of Finance, the National Commission for
Development Planning and the Bank of Zambia. This
Committee will be charged with drawing up and revising
on a semi-annually basis the Government's medium-term
financial plan, which will be used as the basis for
each year's budget guidelines. It will also be re-
sponsible for reconciling the financial resources
availabilities and overall expenditure plans over the
rolling three-year public investment program, the
annual plan and the budget.
(d) We intend to identify measures to strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Finance in economic policy formulation, debt
management, accounting, expenditure control, etc. To this
end, with the assistance of the Bank, we intend to carry out a
review by June 1984 of the functions and organisation of the
Ministry based on which an action plan will be drawn up which
will include prciessional staffing requirements, a training
programme and appropriate systems and procedures to make it
possible for the Ministry to play its required role in eco-
nomic management. Technical Assistance from the Bank for the
implementation of this Action Plan will be needed. Meanwhile
we have applied for technical assistance from the Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) revaluing and strength-
ening the Ministry's information system for recording and
administering debt both domestically and externally. We plan
to have a new computerized debt management system operational
by July 1985.
(e) We plan to continue improvements in the foreign exchange
budgeting and allocation systems. Specifically, we are
developing proper procedures for forecasting and budgeting
foreign exchange resources with the help of consultants and
we are involving the private sector in foreign exchange allo-
cation by including their representatives on the committee



- 49 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 8
responsible for such allocations. Methods of ensuring con-
sistence between quarterly foreign exchange allocations and
licence authorizations have not worked satisfactorily and we
are reviewing these methods as well. We expect to introduce
improvements in these areas prior to end of June 1984.
(f)  In the same vein, we plan to modify exchange rate and tariff
policies with the objective of providing more appropriate
incentives to non-traditional exports. Some possible options
in this regard include the introduction of an auction window
or parallel market for foreign exchange and/or the introduc-
tion of uniform import surcharges and subsidies for non-
traditional exports. To assist the Government in instituting
the necessary reforms beginning in 1985, we welcome a detailed
set of proposals from the Bank and IHF by September 1984.
(g)  We have already undertaken a number of reforms to the tariff
structure recommended in the DUE Report. In addition, in the
1984 budget duties on certain capital goods were increased.
Subject to a study to be undertaken in 1984, the findings of
which we shall discuss with the Bank, we intend to apply
generalized duties to intermediate goods in the 1985 budget,
and plan to shift the tariff basis from f.o.b. to c.i.f.
effective with the FY85 budget. Over the longer run, we
intend to initiate a comprehensive review of the tariff
structure, with the view to providing greater rationality in
effective protection and incentives. We will also investigate
the possibility of using export subsidies to encourage non-
traditional exports. This would be done in connection with
the proposed Industrial Reorientation loan. Our ultimate goal
is to do away with quantitative controls and rely on tariffs
for protection (only as required) and to provide incentives
for expanding non-traditional exports and for import
substitution.
Related to the Industrial Sector:
-                     (a)  We propose to establish in ZIMCO greater capacity for economic
analysis and to incorporate such analysis into their pro-
cedures for project and performance evaluations. This cap-
*                          ability would also be used in their review of the pricing
decisions of publicly-owned enterprises. The objectives of
thie are: first, to avoid future uneconomic investments;
second, to identify existing plants that are oper.Lting
uneconomically and third, to encourage economic pricing.
Establishing this capacity will require the services of a con-
sultant working closely with staff within ZIMCO companies on
the relevant concepts, the introduction of appropriate pro-
cedures into manuais, and to carry out actual analysis as a



- 50-
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
training instrument. A detailed proposal for the consultants'
work will be ready by June 30, 1984, so that the consultant
could be in place as early as November, 1984.
(b)  We expect to introduce a new Industrial Development Act before
December 1985. The new Act, on which work has already begun,
will be much less restrictive and more pronotional in nature
than the old Act.
Related to the Agriculture Sector:
14.       In agriculture, we are developing a sector strategy which draws
heavily on the sector work carried out in cooperation With the Bank's
Southern Agriculture Division. This strategy will emphasize improvements in
the provision of basic services in research and extension, improvements in
the operating efficiency of the parastatal organisations handling major com-
modities in the sector, and improvements in pricing and marketing reforms,
all of which will lead to diversification and increases in production for
exports and import subsitution. It will focus on crops in which Zambia has
comparative advantage, and is being prepared to coincide with the proposed
Agricultural Rehabilitation project for which we are seeking Bank support.
In the short-term, we intend to continue the pricing and other reforms
already introduced for the sector.
15.       In the interim before the agricultural rehabilitation credit is
ready, we intend to move ahead in the following areas:
(a) Development of a master plan for research and extension. We
have already invited proposals from consultants and expect to
sign a contract by the end of March 1984. We have established
a working group within the Ministry of Agriculture to develop
this master plan and expect to oomplete it by September 1984.
This plan, which will draw upon the Bank's Research and Exten-
sion Report, is critical for improving the services provided
to farmers and for coordinating donor assistance in this
regard;
(b) Increasing budget support for programs in the agricultural
sector, both in absolute and relative terms. In particular,
recurrent departmental changes will be increased significantly
ia both the FY84 and FY85 budgets. This will allow for more
rapid implementation of programs and projects in the sector
and, along with the budget reform mentioned above, wiU pro-
vide for more effective implementation;
(c) Undertaking, on a priority basis, a fertilizer usage study
with the view to determining the causes (other than pricing)
of the excessive use of fertilizer that appe-irs to be occur-
iug. This study should indicate whether or iot such over-
usage is occuring (or whether there may be losses in tae
distribution system), if so the causes of the excessive use,



- 51 -
ANE V
Page 8 of 8
and what the proper applications should be. Some work has
already been done and the Government, with support from con-
sultants, plans to finalise this investigation by January
1985. We look forward to discussing the completed study with
the Bank soon thereafter.
(d) Completing and beginning to implement the agricultural sector
strategy, (referred to above) during this (1984) calender
year. We hope to discuss the proposed strategy with the Bank
and internally in the Government by March 1984 and expect to
begin implementing the agreed strategy, by mid-1984, and would
expect to seek donor support for our agricultural sector in-
vestment program at the Consultative Group meeting scheduled
later this year. Further implementation of this strategy will
be effected in connection with the proposed Agricultural
Rehabilitation project.
16.       This obviously is an ambitious program we have set for ourselves
over the next several months. However, we feel a great urgency to move ahead
with these reforms so that the structural changes required in industry, agri-
culture, etc., cam get underway. These changes wiU take time, so we must
set the policy framework and the investment programs in place now. Of
course, the Mining Rehabilitation Loan is crucial to this program since we
are counting on it to buy time for th'-se reforms to have their effect.
Yours sincerely,
L.J. mwananshlku, Mp
MINISTER OF FINANCE



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
P.O. BOX 50062
LUSAKA
SF/312                               21st November, 1983
Mr. W. Wapenhans
Vice President
Eastern Africa Region
World Bank
1818 H Street, N,W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wapenhans:
ZCCH - MEMORANDUM ON
CORPORATE OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
In early 1983, the Government of Zambia set out its current
development objectives and described a number of actions and measures which
it intended to take to help achieve structural change in the economy and
better economic management. These objectives and policies were presented in
a document to the World Bank, entitled 'Memorandum on Development Objectives
and Policies.- The Memorandum specifically refers to a proposed mining
rehabilitation programme intended to arrest the decline in copper production
and enhance the efficiency and profitability of the uining sector. The
purpose of this memorandum is to briefly review the contexts in which ZCO(
operates., to reaffirm its commitments to Zambia's economic development and
its mandate to increase net export earnings and Government revenues, and
review the policies that will need to be implemented in the near term to
fulfill this mandate.
Over the next 20 years the context in which ZCCM will have to
operate is a combination of lower copper grades, depletion of deposits,
scarcity of foreign exchange, shortage of skilled personnel, and unreali-
ability of the transportation network. These effects, felt most intenselY
at the time when copper prices are low, have in the past resulted in ZCCt
incurring large financial losses, and being unable to contribute positively
to the Government budget.
In order to optimise its contribution to Zambia's development, and
in particular in order to become again a net contributor of resources to the
rest of the Zambian economy, it is essential that ZCQI remains a financially
healthy company, and conduct its affairs with accordance with sound business,
financial industrial and administrative practices. The mandate of ZCCM,
under those conditions, is to optimise net foreign exchange' earnings, and
net contribution to the Government's budget.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
- Page 2 of 2
Because they are vnot synonymous, and may in fact be incompatible
with other related considerations (e.g. maximising tonnages produced, maxi-
mising employment levels, or reducing investment costs), the above objec-
tives, to be realist'c and achievable, will require that their implications
be duly recognised by both ZCCM and the Government.
An effort by ZCCM to improve its productivity at the mine, at the
plant and in its central services, is bound to be linked with decisions
concerning labour. It may mean that some labour would have to be released
(permanently or temporarily), or that the overall compensation package
presently available to the Zambian workforce would have to be adjusted.
During years of low copper prices, sales and hence production
levels would need to be reduced in order to limit financial losses, maintain
ZCCM's financial creditworthiness, and preserve for the future Zambia's
limited and valuable mineral resource. The closure of uneconomic operations
has to be an option open to ZCCM and accepted by the Government.
Timely availability of foreign exchange is a necessary ingredient
to ZCCM's successful operation, not only because it permits the financing of
the necessary input needed to proddce, and hence to generate foreign ex-
change, but also because the survival of the Company is based on its ability
to make long-term production plans. and the corresponding large development
investments-
In order for ZCCH to accumulate sufficient financial reserves to
arrive at a sound structure, present taxation regime and dividend policy may
need to be revised in order to permit ZCCX to absorb in the future the
effects of lowering copper prices.
The paragraphs above have only briefly described the conditions
under which ZCCM, while maintaining the financial, commercial, managerial
and business standards expected from a company of this size and of this
inportance to ZAMBIA, can contribute to Zambia's earnings and efforts towards
economic diversification. In order to assist ZCCM in translating such broad
corporate objectives into specific production or investment programmes, ZCCM
has asked Stanford Research Institute International (SRI) to carry out a
series of studies to review and rationalise its mining and metallurgical
operations, and to introduce technical, accounting, purchasing and other
financial practices permitting further improvement on ZCCH's efficiency.
The above statement of corporate objectives and policies for ZCCM
has been discussed with and approved by His Excellency the President.
Yours sincerely,
L. J. Mwananshiku
MINISTER OF FINANCE



I B R D 16492R
FEBRUARY 1t4
ZAMBIA
MINES AND PLANTS IN THE COPPERBELT
*{ x,                                                                       Export Rehabilitotion and Diversification  Project
CHILILABOM8WE   (v'%.  .                                                         /
4 J  \   ";                                                                      V      Open Pit Mine
Konkoa Mine                           ;    (;           ~       \p                                            I                        Underground Mine
Konkolo Mine                                                                                  lp St                                       1 i^8.    O  Leach Plant
/      Cobalt Plant
*      Smelter
Nchango Mine                ufulIra  Mine                "J                                                @       Refinery
CINGOLA  Railroads
International Boundaries
GI o ?
Chornbishi Mine      .         
\ 20p    2           0         040         5
KILOMETERS
Chibulumo Mine w                     KIT'.WE                        \<,KtMr
KALULUSHI             9J\\   
N
N'Kana Mine\                             \ t s                 *\.
\                  A  k~~~~~~NDOLA                                     it..i 7@7-(Nt^NIr
\OOLA /   E  V                 Z A I R E
Ths maip has boun pwrpated by                                                                                  U *           Bwona n,  J
rhe Woiki Bank ' staff excAsvrh'                  OI L   Mine                                                 Ndola           Mkubwo    ANGOLA
rea irecadri a dv isclneslvt,                      aC                                                            Refinery   I                            OF MAP r f  N-:
rntoinal usI ol tho Wltikl[tnA                                            S                                                                 .
and th. Intorn,itrolut Finance                            L      MnU V-
Ctoyaton rho denolninolmnas                            luanshya Mine N                                                                          Z  A  M   8   I  A
used and tht bounekar0ies Chown                                                                                                                                              .. W,
on tfls map do not iniply, on the                                                                                                                                   LUSAKA(
part of The Wnrdki ari ar I the                                                 LUANSHYA                   \                                I                                MOAMIIOUE
frlett naonaf Finance Co,ponp ton.                                                                                     1f 
any Ij.hjnivnl on I ith legal status                                                                                   |                                     I.t*     )
c .my teI flory or aiyI
.ndo semIent or acceptarce ot                                                                                                                                         ZIMBABWE
such boundar,es                                                                                                                                          v~IA~%*'.             ~     
BEST COPY AVAILA!BLE



-  : -*- --  -
-~~~~ 
,rsA    .   fI - _:-    I 
/   .      I  
-,\ \s ; ;.'i V
1    i                   3! ---     
_J                * D-~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;'as w                    ,_i 



.4         i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
-  ~ ~    ~      ~     ~    ~          N                      -~~~~~~~~      0~~c
7n z--                                        4~~~~~~~                      j~       Ii'
% %~~ 
-i h i, i l II     .II                                 I                                            _i ;1






