RESTRICTED
Re,port No.    PE-39a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized orpnizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorizition. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
LIBERIA
March 9, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURENCY EQUIVALENT
Liberia uses the US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



LIB ERIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CON iENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......             .........................    i
I.    INTRODUCTION .          ..........................................      1
The Request ............          ...............................    1
Socio-Economic Background  .............................   1
II.    EDUCATION AND TRAINING ................................    2
General Characteristics of the Education System .... ...   2
III.    COST AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION  .......................   3
Educational Finance ...................................    3
Education Expenditure .................................    3
Recurrent and Capital Expenditure .....................   3
Projections of Future Expenditure .....................   4
IV.   EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS ..........................    5
General          ...................................5 
The Need for Manpower Planning .....              ...................    5
The Need for Expansion and Improvement in Education
and Training ............                                            6
Elementary Education . ............................   6
Secondary Education ...............................   6
Higher Education .................................                6
Technical and Vocational Training ......             ..........   7
Agricultural Education ............ ...............    7
The Need for Educational Planning ......              ...............   8
Technical Assistance  . .................................    8
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
liberia in April/May 1971. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Brewin
(Agricultural Educator), A. Freire (General Educator), B. Hubert (Architect),
K. Seiler (Technical Educator), and Mrs. R. Brandenburg (Economist).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ge No.
V.   THE PROJECr ...........................................   9
General ............................   9
Kakata Rural Teacher Training Institute .10
Secondary Science Teacher Training .10
Technical Teacher Training .11
Multilateral High Schools .11
University Planning .12
The College of Agriculture and Forestry .12
Technical Assistance.                                        14
Evaluation of the Project .15
Cost of the Project .15
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .17
Project Administration .17
Professional Services .18
Site Acquisition .18
Procurement .18
Disbursements .18
VII. RECO1MENDATIONS .19
APPENDIXES
I    Education and Training
II    Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Enrollment and Teachers by Level and Type of Education,
Government and Non-Government Institutions, 1970
2.   Enrollment by Grade, Controlling Authority and Sex, 1970
3.   Pre-elementary and Elementary School Enrollments and
Teacher Needs (Government and Non-Government Schools),
1968-1980
4.   General Secondary Education - Number of Schools and Enrollment
by Counties and Authority, 1970
5.   Secondary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs, 1968-1980
6.   Higher Education Enrollment by Faculty and Sex, 1970
7.   Students Studying Abroad by Fields of Study
8.   Expenditure on Education
9.   Estimated Annual Requirements for Agriculture and Forestry
Graduates, 1971-1976
10.   Summary of Enrollment, Boarders, Staff Housing - Estimated Cost of
Institutions and Technical Assistance.
11.   Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
12.   Contingency Allowances
13.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14.   Prolect Implementation and Expenditure Schedules
15.   Time Schedule for Technical Assistance Implementation and
Estimated Cost.
16.   Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
1.   Department of Education
2.   Structure of the Education System
3.   Educational Pyramid, 1970
TAP OF LIBERIA - Location of Proposed Educational Institutions






LIBERIA
BASIC DATA (1970)
Area                                                 43,000 square miles
Population
Estimated total                                   1.5 million
Annual rate of growth                             2.8 percent
Average density                                   29  per square mile
Literacy                                             15%
Pre-Grade I enrollmentM as a per-
centage of population aged 5-6                    66%
id,1mentary school enrollment as a
':ercentage of population aged 7-12               50%
Junior high school enrollment as a
percentage of population aged 13-15               16%
'-enior high school enrollment as a   b/
percentage of population aged 16-18-                8%
Higher education enrollment as a per-
centage of population aged 19-25                  0.8%
t.uucation Resources
U 3$ million     %
Central Government                                8.0        37.5
Private domestic                                   7.0       32.9
Foreign Assistance                                 6.3       29.6
Official                                       (3.8)      (17-9)
Private                                         (2.5)     (11.7)
21.3      100.0
Total public education expenditure
as a nercentage of total Govern-
ment eKpenditure (1970)                          11.7d
Total dome-tic education expenditure
as ra pMercentage of GDP (1970)                   3.7%
a/ Enroll.mtent ratio at all levels includes overaged students.
b/ Including enrollment in teacher training and vocational
and technical education.






LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUIIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a first education project for Liberia for
which an IDA Credit of 1US$7.2 million is recommended.  Liberian education
suffers from many serious deficiencies. The education system is ill suited
to the needs of the country both qualitatively and quantitatively. Altlhough
there are a number of good educational institutions, the education available
to the majority of Liberlans is limited and of poor quiality. The system
suffers from lack of planning, administrative weaknesses, under-paid and
ofteni ill-trained teachers, unsuitable physical facilities and shortage of
teaching materials, academically-biased curricula, and lack of effective
technical and agricultural training with practical. orientation. The ab-
sence of manpower planning has hampered the developnent of an effective
educational. Dolicy and the education system has therefore failed to supply
the country's reiuired manpower.
ii.       The proposed project, aimed at improving and expanding the educa-
tion system, provides for the establishment or extension of a limited num-
ber of new and existing institutions for the purpose of meeting urgent man-
power needs and introducing better curricula and methods. To remedy serious
weaknesses in education and manpower planning and in school administration
and teaclling, the project would also provide for technical assistance in
each of these fields.
iii.      Specificallv the project would consist of:  (a) construction of
tw-7o nlew multilateral high schools, a new college of agriculture and forestry
and extension of one elementary teacher training institute, including con-
struction of n new demonstration school; (b) equipment for science teacher
train1ning at thte Utniversity of Liberia and technical teaclier training at two
cxisting institutions; and (c) provision of technical assistance in a number
of stratepic areas (19 man-venrs of specialist services and five man-years
of fellowsl.ips for the training of Liberian staff in manpower and educational
r1nnning, anrc 2nf man-years of specialist services and two fellowships for
school oneration and 13 man-years of specialist services for project manage-
ment) .
iv.       One oF the rajor prohlerns inllibitinp improvenent of the educational
system is the low status of the toaching profession.  As a first contribution
towardqs irprovemrert the Covernment has agreed to establish, a graduated salary
structure, for teachers based on a system which tal.es into account the require-
ments of the jo!) and tthe qualifications and experience of the teacher and to
appoint the teaching staff for the project multilateral schools on this new
salary scale.



v.        A project unit will be established within the Departrent of Fduca-
tion to supervise project implementation, to coordinate activities witlhin
the Government and to provide liaison with the Association.  OtQallfied con-
sultants would he employed for the design and supervision oF construction.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at USS9.6 million, of
which 59% would be for buildings, furniture and equipment, 21% for technical
assistance and 207 for contingencies.  The proposed TDA Credit would finanice
75,.' of the total project cost and would cover the foreign excchanEe component,
estimated at U7S$6.6 million and US$0.6 million of the local cost.  Procure-
ment would be in conformity with Bank/IDA rules regarding international com-
petitive hidding.
vii.      Subject to the fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Chapter
VII, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of TSS~7.2 million to Liberia.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      In October 1970, a LNESCO mission visited Liberia to assist the
Government in identifying educational projects suitable for Bank/IDA fi-
nancing. The UTNESCO report was discussed with the Government by a Bank/
IDA mission in December 1970.  In February 1971, the Government requested
financial assistance for a project it had prepared with the help of IUESCO.
In April/'fay, 1971 a mission comprising Messrs. D. Brewin (agricultural
educator), A. Freire (general educator), B. Tlubert (architect), K. Seiler
(technical educator) and Mrs. R. Brandenburg (economist) visited Liberia
to appraise the project.
1.02      After appraisal, the proposed project was modified:  (i) to re-
duce its cost to within the limits of IDA resources available for Liberia;
(ii) to eliminate certain items which are unlikely to prove successful at
Present due to local, social, political or geographical circumstances; (iii)
to place more emiphasis on planning, with particular reference to manpower
requirements; (iv) to include a technical teacher training program; and (v)
to relate curricula more closely to estimated manpower needs.
1.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.6 million
and the foreign exchange component at UTS$6.6 million.
Socio-Economic Baclground
1.04      Liberia is located on the southern edge of Africa's western bulge.
It has a surface of 43,000 square miles consisting of low-lying terrain which
in coastal areas is partially swampy. The total population in 1970 was 1.5
million (or 29 per square mile) of whom 1.1 million were in rural and 0.4
million in urban areas. The rate of population growth is 2.8% p.a. Approx-
imately 487' of the population is under 15 years of age.
1.05      Lack of a suitable GDP deflator does not permit the derivation
of real rates of growth for the economy; however, using market prices,
prelininary estimates of Liberia's GDP in 1970 indicate a rate of growth
of 47% as comnared with 127 in 1969 (but only ahout 5% in real terms) and
an annual averaoe of 7.47 (luring 1966-69.
1.06      Liberia is characterized by a dual economy with a prosperouis
enclave sector and an underdeveloped subsistence sector. UTnder the late
President Tubman's "Open Door Policy" favorable treatment has been extended
to private investors which has encouraged large-scale investments in iron-
ore, ruhher and timber.  Since these products are processed abroad, the
operations have exerted little impact on other sectors of the economy.  Em-
ployment oF Liberians has been small in relation to the size of the invest-
ments.



1.07      Agriculture contributes 237 to GDP, second only to mining, but it
is the main source of employment.  Sluggish apricultura] growt1i has retarded
employment opporttnities in tlis sector; productivlty is low anr( has lagged
considerably behind that of the otlher sectors. Mininf. has grown very rapidly
in the past two vears and its shiare has increased to about one-third of CPP.
Manufacturing is another rapidly growing sector, althouph hindered by thLe
lack of skills and the small size of the domestic market.  The contril)tion
of these two growing sectors to employment is still limited ancd thc lack of
an adequate domestic supply of qualified manpower has resulted in heavy re-
liance on expatriates to fill even the limited number of jobs creited.  To
accelerate Liberia's growth, the country's human resources will have to be
developed in accordance with the needs of the various sectors.
II. EDUCATION AND TRAININC
2.01      This chapter summarizes the general characteristics of the educa-
tion and training system. A description of the system and its organization
and structure is given in Appendix I and in Charts 1, 2 and 3. SupportinIg
data are shown in Annexes 1 to 7 which should be considered tentative.
General Characteristics of the Education System
2.02      Liberian education stuffers from a multiplicity of serious defi-
ciencies Twhich have developed largelyi as a result of the political and
social system in which there has been traditionally a dichlotomy between the
descendants of the slaves who became tl-e privileged part ef the^ community
and the original inhabitants of the interior reoions.  The education sys-
temr is ill suited to the needs of the country both qualitatively and quian-
titatively. Although there are a number of good educational institutions,
the major part of the system suffers from lack of planning, adrinistrative
weaknesses, unbalanced distribution of schools and inadequate financial
provision, underpaid and ill-trained teachers, unsuitable physical facili-
ties and shortage of teaching materials, academically biased curricula, and
a lack of effective technical and agricultural training withl practical orien-
tation.  Other agencies have attempted to assist reform of the system, but
results have freqtuently been disappointing because of administrative defi-
ciencies.  The USATD has made considerable investments in primary, second-
ary and technical schools, including the provision of equipment and texthools.
Due to inadequate staffing and other deficiencies many of these schools are
not functioning satisfactorily.
2.03      Signs of change are beginning to appear under the new Governrent.
There is now a realization of the importance of manpower and education plan-
ning- an acceptance of the need for development of education outside the
capital city, Monrovia; a willingness to redirect the emphasis in school
curricula to correspond with manpower requirements; and an appreciation of
the need for better trained teachers and more emphasis on technical and agri-
cultural education.



- 3 -
III.  COST MID FINANCING OF EDUCATION
Educational Finance
3.01      The Central Government is responsible for the financing of public
education at all levels. Primary education is free. Fees are charged at
the secondary and higher levels, but the Central Government makes up the
deficit.  County and local governments do not contribute to education fi-
nancing. Total funds allocated to education amounted to US$21.3 million in
1970, of which domestic sources accounted for 70% or US$15.0 million.  The
latter consisted of US$9.0 million which is the Central Government education
budget and US$7.0 million from domestic private sources. Of this latter
amount, ITS$6.0 million is the expenditure by pupils and parents for fees
and the mandatory purchase of books and uniforms; the remainder (US$1.0 mi-
lion) was contributed by missions and private foundations.
3.n2      Total domestic education expenditure represented 3.7% of the
country's GDP in 1970 which is about average compared with other African
countries. In addition to this, there is an important element of external
financing. Foreign assistance to education amounted to US$6.3 million con-
sisting of US$2.5 million fromi private foreign contributors and US$3.8 mil-
lion from official sources. The UTnited States Government is the principal
foreign aid donor to Liberia but is shifting its aid from education to
agriculture.
Education Expenditure
3.n3      The Government's total expenditure on education in 1970 (US$8.0
million) represented about 12% of its total budget, slightly less than that
of 196Q. Although there is no clear distinction as to the purpose for which
expenditures are incurred, it is estimated that US$7.0 million, a relatively
high proportion of total government expenditure on education, is for recurrent
purnoses, reflecting the low level of investment in new facilities.  But this
recurrent expenditure only represents 11.47 of the Government's recurrent
budget which is a low figure but does not reflect the considerable amounts
of private expenditure and of foreign aid. Given the Government's plans to
expand enrollment and improve the quality of education, this proportion is
expected to rise in the future.
Recurrent and Capital Expenditure
3.04      Government expenditure on education is administered almost ex-
clusively by the Department of Education.  The University of Liberia is
autonomous In determining the use of its allocation. The shares of the
various levels of education out of recurrent expenditure in 1970 were as
follows:



- 4-
Elementary education   47%         Vocationa] training    6%
Secondary education    11%         Higher education        25%
Teacher training          5%       Other                    6%
The share to higher education is unusually high which underlines the need
for careful planning of the University's further develonment. The amount
allocated to secondary education is very low, partly due to substantial
foreign aid to secondarv education (and elementary education) which is not
reflected in these figures (Annex 8).
3.05      Recurrent cost per student at elementary level (UTS$42) is rela-
tively high when compared with other African countries. Unit costs at sec-
ondarv level (QJSS120) are comparatively loW but, again, do not account for
the numerous UT.S. Peace Corps teachers and other forms of foreign assistance.
Including the latter would raise the unit cost of primary and secondary to
about $60 and $200 respectively. At the University, the average recurrent
cost of a liberal arts student is US$1,181; a student of agriculture costs
US$1,985.
3.06      The effect of Government expenditure on education is further im-
paired by deficiernt budgetary control.  It is difficult to reconcile, for
instance, the sizeahle salary appropriation in the budget with the very low
salaries actually paid to the teachers which only account for less than half
the budgeted amount. Similarly, budget allocations for school materials and
maintenance are not fully reflected in provision of supplies to thie schools
and in actual school maintenance.
3.07      Capital expenditure for education is financed through the Govern-
ment's development budget.  It amounted to about UTSS1.0 million or 16% of
the development budget, representing a sharp drop relative to 1969 when
its share was 207. Included in this are expenditures on school facilities
as well as other developmental activities (Annex 8).
Projections of Future Expenditure
3.08      On the basis of current plans for expansion and improvement of
the education system and assuming that (i) foreign aid will be halved by
1975, (ii) salaries at the elementary level will rise by 25%. and those at
the secondary bY 30% during the same period and, (iii) adequate provision
will be made for equipment and school maintenance, it is estimated that
recurrent expenditures of the Department of Education will rise at an an-
nual rate of 11% from US$7.0 million in 1970 to US$12.0 million in 1975 (at
1971 prices). The future growth of the Government's total budget is diffi-
cult to estimate; but if one assumes an annual rate of increase of 5% (as
compared with the expected 4% in GDP), the percentage slhare of recurrent
expenditure on education in the total Government recurrent budget would
rise from 11.4% to about 15% in 1975.  The Government intends to raise the



- 5 -
percentage allocation to education and an increase to 15% would represent a
considerable improvement. The proportion of GDP devoted to education would
rise from 3.7% to about 4.6%.
IV. EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS
General
4.01      Improving Liberia's education and training system which is suf-
fering from the weaknesses described in Chapters II and III and Appendix I
is a major and time consuming task. In view of the serious institutional
and administrative weak,nesses, outlined above, a strategy for improvement
of Liberian education should attach high priority to strengthening the staff-
ing and competence of Government institutions directly responsible for the
operation and development of the education system.  The 11.S. Government is
sunporting the training of public administrators of which the beneficial
effects are likely to take some time to materialize. More immediate im-
provements, on which the possibility of success of an education project
will depend, will require substantial inputs of technical assistance in
strategic areas such as manpower and educational planning, project imple-
mentation, school administration and teacher training. In addition, support
should be given to the establishment of new and to existing institutions
for which the need can be clearly identified and in which modern educational
technology would be applied. Structural changes should be introduced in the
secondary school system (para. 4.05) and major improvements should be
achieved in the staffing and curricula of secondary and post-secondary in-
stitutions mentioned below.
The Need for Manpower Planning
4.02      A major deficiency of education and training in Liberia is its
very low external productivity. In the absence of manpower planning and
of adequate knowledge of manpower requirements, the education system has
failed to meet major manpower needs. The little information available on
the present manpower situation indicates that in 1969 about 160,000 persons
(incltiding 7,500 in administrative and technical posts) were employed in
wage and salaried posts in the following fields:
Agriculture         369%             Construction          6%
Mining              13%              Commerce             12%
Manufacturing        7Z              Government and
Other Services    26%
The fact that some 10% of these jobs were reportedly filled by expatriates
could be used as a rough indication of the type and magnitude of local skill
shortages. The accuracy of these figures, however, is doubtful and a survey



- 6 -
of existing manpower is required. To promote more effective developpment and
use of the country's human resources, the manpower study should also attempt
to define objective criteria to be used in appointments and promotions to
emphasize the imnortance of qualifications and competence.
4.03      On the basis of existing information it is possihle to identify
urgent manpower needs in a number of sectors, where shortages are so ob-
vious that limited investments are justified without awaiting. tlhe results
of a manpower study. These are outlined in paras. 4.08-4.14 below.
The Need for Expansion and Improvement in Education and Training
4.04      The Government, assisted by  NTDP/UINESCO/UNICEF/WFP and USAID, aims
at improving elementary education in some 200 schools during the period 1971-
75. Only about 50% of the total elementary teaching staff of 3,400 is qual-
ified. If pupil enrollment increases as anticipated, it is estimated that
there will be a demand for about 4,000 additional qualified elementary
teachers by 1980. The improvement program includes a substantial elerent
of teacher training, but for it to be fully effective new physical plant is
needed to accommodate additional staff and students and extra teaching equip-
ment at one of the teacher training institutes.
4.05      Secondary education needs to be reoriented and improved:  quali-
fications of teaching staff must be raised, curriculum content more closely
related to manpower needs and physical facilities improved and, for more
economic utilization, consolidated into larger units with lower staff:
student ratios. A new type of school - the multilateral school - is needed,
particularly in the larger centers outside Monrovia, in which pupils will
be provided with training in agrictulture and technical subjects in addition
to the regular academic studies. Such multilateral schools could become
models on which the design of future schools might be based.
4.06      Plans have been prepared for expansion of the Universitv of
Liberia's secondary teacher training program, with particular emphasis on
science and mathematics where the need is greatest. In order to implement
this program, additional science teaching equipment and appropriate textbooks
are needed.
4.07      The University, which is the main institution of higher education,
is suffering from a history of 10 years of indecision concerning its ulti-
mate site. Two years ago, the Government finally decided that the greater
part of the University would move to Fendell and that no further substantial
development would take place on the Monrovia site.  There is now a need for
a study of alternative development plans, to remove present uncertainties
with regard to the appropriateness, cost and timing of the move of various
schools of the University, and for a detailed plan for future University
development, taking into account the need for new facilities to be related
to manpower requirements and limitations of available funds. The plans
should include recommendations on staff development and suggest the most
suitablle curricula for appropriate numbers of students at the most economic
cost.



4.08      Past education policies have neglected technical and vocational
training. The demand for skilled workers is clearly apparent: a significant
number of expatriates are employed at skilled craftsmen level and very few
firms provide suitable "on-the-job" training. The Government originally re-
quested IDA to establish a vocational training center in Monrovia but the
type of training proposed was not in accordance with the needs of local in-
dustry. Subsequently, when a revised program providing for more appropriate
courses was drawn up, the Government felt that it would compete with training
provided already at the Booker Washington Technical Institute. For this rea-
son the Government decided to give this request low priority pending a re-
view of the whole technical education system.
4.Oq      There is also a great unsatisfied demand for technicians but no
facilities for such training in the country. The Government requested IDA
to finance the completion of a new institution at Harper, President Tubman's
birthplace, and make it into a technical college, but it is unsuitable due
to its remoteness from industry, its limited communications with other parts
of Liberia and its design which is not appropriate either to the size of the
demand for technicians nor the nature of the training they require.
4.10      A first step towards a comprehensive program of technical train-
ing, suitable for Liberia's requirements, should be to determine the extent
and nature of present and future needs. A plan should then be prepared for
the effective utilization of existing facilities and for the construction
of new ones. Technical assistance for this program, as part of a wider man-
power and educational planning study, is included in the proposed project.
This should be accompanied, as soon as possible, by a technical teacher train-
ing program. In addition, and without awaiting the results of further plan-
ning, effective technical training should be introduced at the secondary
level.
4.11      Agricultural education has exerted little influence on Liberian
development to date for a number of reasons: the annual output of trainees
has been limited (at the middle level it has averaged twelve per year and
at the upper level 4.5 per year during recent years); trainees have lacked
the practical. anproach needed on the job; until recently there has been some
indifference towards agricultural development on the part of the Government.
A.12      The new Government, however, intends to put greater emphasis on
agricultural development and the Department of Agriculture is now controlled
by dynamic leaders who have planned new programs to increase and diversify
agricultural and forestry production, raise farmers' productivity and income
and provide consumers with a better, more balanced diet at lower cost.  None
of these goals can be attained without a vigorous extension service for which
the necessary staff is lacking at present.  The service is now employing only
11 high level agricultural staff and is trying to fill its middle level posi-
tions through "crash courses" for poorly qualified candidates. The Bureau
of Forestry, which is responsible for nine million acres of land in high
forest, also lacks trained personnel at all levels. The annual need of the



- 8 -
public services for agricultural graduates to be trained at nost-secondary
level is conservatively estimated at 20.  The denmand for agricultural and
forestry personnel in the private sector is gaining momentum as a result of
increased investment; it is estimated that approximately 30 graduates per
year will be needed in this sector.
4.13      Training of the 50 college graduates requlredl annually (Annex 9)
should not be of a high-level, theoretical and academic nature but should
have a strong practical bias since most graduates will be emrployed as ex-
tension workers, farm and rubber estate managers and in comparable "pro-
ductive" functions. To achieve this objective a new College of Agriculture
and Forestrv should be established in an environment in which theoretical
and practical instruction can be closely integrated.  The University farm
and forest at Fendell provides an ideal site.
4.14      Effective utilization of College graduates also requires the serv-
ices of a sufficient number of niddle level agricultural staff; requirements
are difficult to estimate but the shortage of training in this field is so
pronounced that a beginning should be made by introducing agricultural courses
at secondary level in rural areas.
The Need for Educational Planning
4.15      The education planning unit originally set un by the Department
of Education in 1963 prepared a 4-year plan (1968-1971) which has been only
partially implemented. The unit has been strengthened recently by the ap-
pointment of a qualified director and four assistants. It is aware of the
manv weaknesses in the education system and has also formulated some tenta-
tive goals. The unit needs technical assistance for a number of years to
strengthen its ability to assess the feasibility and consistency of the
Government's development goals and to translate aims and targets into pre-
cise plans.
Technical Assistance
4.16      In all the above fields, technical assistance will be necessary to
support the Liberian Government's oNwn efforts.  Highest priority should be
given to fundamental planning of the manpower resources and the education
svstem.  Specialist services are also needed for the initial stages of the
estahlislhment of new institutions to ensure that they are well planned,
operated with relevant curricula and that Liberian coun1terparts will he
able to obtain appropriate experience before taking over responsibility for
their administration.  Fellowships will also be needed but in only limited
numbers as the Government already finances a substantial overseas scholarship
program.



- 9 -
V. TIhE PROJECT
General
5.01      The purpose of the project would be to strengthen manpower and
educational planning, including the planning of higher education and to
construct new institutions in accordance with priority needs identified
in Chapter IV. In particular, the project would help finance:
(a)  construction and equipment for:
- two new multilateral high schools;
- a new college of agriculture and forestry;
(b)  extension of one elementary teacher training institute,
including the construction of a new demonstration school;
(c)  equipment for science and technical teacher training;
(d)  57 man-years of technical assistance and seven man-years
of fellowsliips for manpower and education planning, tech-
nical teacher training, secondary education and project
implementation.
5.02      The following table gives further details of project items (a)
and (b):
Accommodation
(additional)
No. of        Enrollment       Student      Staff
Project Items      Institutions Additional  Total   Boarding   Housing
Teacher Training Insti-
tute                         1           175        300      160         14
Demonstration Sclbool          1           240        240       -           2
TMultilateral High Schools     2         1,200      1,200      300         20
College of Agriculture and
Forestry                     1           200*       200*     200         30
*    The prpsent enrollment (160 in 1970/71) is accommodated in Monrovia.
The new College would be at Fendell.



- 10 -
Teacher Training
Kakata Rural Teacher Training Institute
5.03      The Government has recently started a program aimed at improving
the quality and efficiency of elementary education particularly In rural
areas (para. 4.04) and including teacher training. This program cannot be
fully effective unless additional physical facilities are provided at the
Kakata Pural Teacher Training Institute.  The project would provide exten-
sions to the existing facilities of this institute to increase the enroll-
ment from 125 to 300. The extensions would consist of academic, communal
and boarding facilities; they would include 160 additional boarding places
for teacher trainees recruited from all parts of Liberia and 14 staff houses,
to be used in the first instance by technical assistance personnel. The
project would also provide facilities for a new demonstration school for
240 elementary pupils, including an industrial arts workshop, closed cir-
cuit T.V. and 2 staff houses.
5.04      On completion of the new facilities, the institute would be able
to offer in-service courses varying from a few weeks to two years' duration,
depending on the trainee's background.  Some 35 supervisors, 210 school
principals and 2,600 teachers of different categories would be trained in
the initial program lasting over five years.  In addition, the enrollnient
in pre-service courses would be increased from 125 to 300, thus increasing
the output of trained teachers from the present figure of 33 to about 90
per annum. The curriculum is being expanded to include industrial arts,
sociology and economic development; and training in agriculture and home
economics will be augmented.   It is intended that the prograr will lead
to a general reform of the content and methods of elementary education
and produce new instructional materials. An experimental radio studio and
transmitter to be provided with UNDP/UNESCO assistance will be used to train
teachers in program production and the use of radio in schools.  Closed cir-
cuit television to be provided also by ITNDP and UNESCO will be used for im-
provement of teacher training techniques.
Secondary Science Teacher Training
5.05      The project would assist the William V. S. Tubman Teacher College
of the University of Liberia to implement a science education program aimed
at producing by 1980, 160 qualified Liberian science teachers for the junior
and senior high schools and upgrading 100 in-service teachers. The project
would finance the purchase of science teaching equipment, audio-visual
material and a specialized library. Machinery and tools would also be
provided to equip a workshop in which teacher trainees would be able to
create new teaching aids using local materials. The University is con-
structing a small new science center, at its Monrovia campus to house the
equipment to be provided under the project. The Department of Education
intends to provide an increasing number of scholarships for students enter-
ing science teaching courses. The present: staff of the College is well
qualified and does not require addition.



Technical Teacher Training
5.06      It is estimated that by 1976 at least 36 trained technical teachers
will be needed for existing technical education institutions and projected
multilateral schools. Two technical teacher training courses of three years'
duration, each for 18 students, stretching over a total period of four years,
would be provided under the project, utilizing:  (a) facilities at the Voca-
tional] Training Center at Yekepa for trainees to improve their technical
skills in the first year; (b) selected industrial enterprises for "on-the-job"
training in the second year; and, (c) teaching facilities at the William V.
S. Tubman High School in Monrovia, for teaching methods and practice in the
final year. Entrants would have completed vocational training up to the
equivalent of grade 12 in either a technical training institution or a high
school offering industrial arts. The project would include six man-years
of technical assistance and provision of additional equipment for the
Vocational Training Center and the William V. S. Tubman High School.
5.07      During the negotiations, the Government undertook to organize
these two teacher training courses, the first commencing not later than
February 28, 1973, and the second not later than February 28, 1974, and to
make arrangements with the Vocational Training Center at Yekepa, with in-
dustry and with the William V. S. Tubman Hligh School for the implementation
of these couirses as outlined in para. 5.06. The Government gave assurances
that it will provide scholarships for at least 36 trainees for three years
each.  It was also agreed, during the negotiations, that the Government will
malke arrangerents for the use of the equipment to be provided under the
project, after the initial four years, by either continuing the technical
teacher training courses for a longer period, if required, or by augment-
ing facilities for other courses at the Center and the High School.
aIultilateral High Schools
5.08      In order to improve the effectiveness of secondary education
(para. 4.05) the project would replace existing high schools occupying un-
satisfactory temporary buildings by new multilateral high schools. They
would represent an innovation in secondary education in Liberia and would
be lilkely to set a pattern for development of other similar schools in the
future. The Voinjama illgh School would attract pupils from one or two sim-
ilar sclhools in the area, which are uneconomical because of their limited
size and low pupil:teacher ratios. The Zwedru High School, would be the only
one of its kind in Crand Gedeh County.
5.09      The multilateral. schools would offer a wide curriculum for 36n
pupils at the jtuior level. (grades 7-9) and 3 streams, for 240 pupils at
the senior level (grades 10-12) in academic subjects, mechanics and agri-
culture.  During the negotiations, the Government undertool to formulate
and put into effect not later than February 28, 1973, a new curriculum,
satisfactory to the Association, for each of the new schools. The Voinjama
ITigh School would cover the needs of Lofa rounty, a productive agricultural
area in whichi substanti-al new mining activities are anticipated. The



- 12 -
Zwedru Hligh School would cater for the needs of Grand Gedeh County, which
contains 90% of Liberia's forest industry. No difficulty is anticipated
in obtaining elementary school leavers for entry to the project schools;
but, for students living at some distance, provision would be made for 1P0
boarding places in each school.
5.10      A total of 56 teachers would be required.  They would be obtained
from existing schools in the area and from the output of various schools of
the University and the technical teacher training program proposed under the
project (paras. 5.05-5.07). During the negotiations, the Governiment gave
an assurance that it will provide training for technical teachers for the
proposed schools under the arrangements outlined in paras. 5.06 and 5.07
and will train the other teachers to an appropriate level of qualification,
before they take up their positions at the schools. The Government also
undertook to designate the technical teachers to attend the training courses
not later than February 28, 1973, and the other teachers not later than
July 31, 1974. Liberian teachers often face difficulties in obtaining
satisfactory housing, especially in rural areas. To ease these problems
and attract teachers away from the more congenial atmosphere of Monrovia,
the project would include ten staff houses at each of the new schools. As
the schools would be innovative in approach, the project would provide 14
man-years of technical assistance for administration, and introduction of
new curricula and teaching methods and 2 man-years of fellowships for train-
ing of Liberian principals-designate.
University Planning
5.11      To remove the uncertainties outlined in para. 4.07 and to increase
the effectiveness of the University of Liberia, the project would provide
7.5 man-years of technical assistance for University planning. A higpher
education planning team including full and part-time consultants, would
investigate the existing plans of the llniversity and, utilizing the recom-
mendations to be made by the proposed manpower planning unit (para. 5.17),
and in close cooperation with the education planners provided for in para.
5.18, would work with the Universitv's Development Committee in planning
future development. The team would operate under broad terms of reference
and would be asked to make recommendations on the most appropriate site
for the various schools of the University, time schedules for the move of
different sections to Fendell, physical plant development, appropriate
curricula, research policy, staff development, student enrollments, methods
of reducing the present high attrition rate, and financial imrmi1catiors.
The College of_!yiculture and Forestry
-. 1?     To providle for nn Incranee In rttidrlit  ITroI imnn  frfriii 1 n Io 200
to   cAter   for   frlcrc. t8if   II(I-iri  Ii,  t:I,i   I Is  did    of  .-iyr1uI t tir;fl   e:   ii:;hjii,  r.-
scoarclh and agriculata ra l antd forestry managemtent (pa ra. 4 .11) and for improve--
mient in the oualitv of instruction (para. 4.12), the progran; would provide
academic and communal facilities and boarding accommodation for 200 students,



- 13 -
30 staff houses, and additional farm buildings for a new College of Agri-
culture and Forestry at Fendell. To ensure that the training provided
would have a strong practical bias, the Government, during the negotiations,
gave an assurance that in drawing u) plans for siting of IlTniversity build-
ings a--t Fendell, it would locate the College immediately adjacent to the
Universit- farm.
5.13      Tie College would offer four-year degree courses in agriculture
and forestry with additional options in agricultural education and hor.e
economics.  To ensure that the instruction will remain relevant to Liberian
needs, the Government undertook, during the negotiations, to formulate a
program for and, at the appropriate time to revise, the curricula of the
College on the basis of the following objectives (a) the need to emphasi.ze
the teaching of practical agricultural and forestry skills by extending the
farm and forestry practice courses to a period of 30 weeks so as to achieve
a halance between theoretical and practical aspects of the program; (b) the
gradual phasing out of existing remedial courses in such subjects as English,
mathematics and basic science, as the educational level of entering students
improves; (c) the phasing out of subjects, not directly related to the agri-
cultural and forestry curricula, which would not be of value to the students
in their subsequent employment or post-graduate studies; and (d) increased
time allocations for studies in agricul-tural and forestry management with
particular emphasis on rubber and also on other crops which would help to
diversify Liberian agriculture.  The Government also undertook to initiate
this new program not later than December 31, 1972, and to review progress
in its implementation with the IMP and FAO and with the Association on or
before the commencement of each subsequent academic year until. the closing
date of the Credit.
5.14      The College would renuire a total staff of about 30 lecturers,
the majoritv of wyhom would be Liberians.  During the negotiations, the
.overnment undertoolo to appoint not later than December 31, 1972 (or at a
later date acceptable to the Association), in consultation with TJTNP-FAO
a suitably nualified and experienced dean of the Colleege.  The Government
algo undertook to appoint suitably qualified associate deans for agriculture
and forestry not later than the commencement of the first academic year after
completion of the construction of the College. To ensure a continuation of
tlhe existinip Staff Development Program the Government undertook, during the
negotiations, to uise its best endeavors to obtain an extension of the exist-
ing T!NT)P-rAo technical assistance program for thlree years after completion
of conistruction of the College, or if earlier, up to December 31, 1978; the
extension wouldl( be based on the recommendations made from time to time, in
the light of the needs of the College, by the UNDP-FAO in consultation with
the Government and the Association.
5.15      Salaries of Teachers.  One of the major problems inhibiting improve-
ment of edutcation is the low status of the teaching profession in Liberia.



- 14 -
Few teachers are paid on the basis of a salary scale.  Tndividual salaries
are often not related to academic achievement or teaching ability. Incre-
ments are rarely given.  In order to raise the status of the tenchin   pro-
fession, and to ensure that staff of adequate calibor will be availahbl  for
the institutions included in the project and other similar institutions to
be establ-ished in the future, the Government, during negotiations, gave an
assurance that it will establish and review from time to time, in consulta-
tion with the Association, a graduated salary structure, based on tlhe re-
qtuirements of eachl position and the qualifications and experience of the
staff member.  The Government undertook to introduce the new salary scale
for staff at the multilateral high schiools and at the College of Agriculture
and Forestry from the commencement of instruction in these institutions and
in the case of all other teaching staff it employs, progressively, so that
it would be fully in effect not later than January 1, 1076.
Technical Assistance (Appendix II)
5.16      To ensure (a) the setting up of adequate machinery for manpower
and education planning, (b) the efficient operation of the multilateral high
schools, (c) the introduction of a technical teacher training program, and
(d) project implementation, the project would mal.e provision for 57 man-years
of specialist services and 7 man-years of overseas fellowships.  Durini the
negotiations, the Government undertook to assign suitably qualified counter-
parts to each of the specialists to be provided under the project not later
than the date upon which the specialists would commence their duties.  The
Government also undertook to use its best endeavors to obtain technical
assistance from other agencies for part or all of the required specialist
services and fellowships.  To the extent that such technical assistance is
provided from other sources, the credit would be redtuced1.
5.17      Manpower Planning Unit.  The project would include 4.5 man-years
of specialist services to strengthen the Government's Manpower Planning
Commission. The terms of reference of the enlarged Commission would in-
clude provision for a survey of existing manpower shortages, the role of
expatriate manpower, and trends in unemployment and underemployrent. Pro-
jections would be made of future demand for all levels of manpower, quan-
titative and qualitative needs for skilled manpower in particular sections
of the economv, integration of these needs within a general strategy for
education, in association withi the education planning unit, (parn. 5.18)
and a study of the wage structure with particular referpnce to existi-n?
recruitment and promotion practices in the public and private sectors.
Arrangements would also be made for the setting up of an administrative
structure for the regular collection of manpower statistics and to ensure
close liaison amongst all persons involved in manpowger assessment.
5.18      Education Planning Unit.  The project would provide 7 man-years
of specialist services to strengthen the Bureau of Planning and Research
of the Department of Education. A permanent and functional relationship
would be established between the Bureau and the Department of Planning



- 15 -
and Economic Affairs, so as to coordinate more satisfactorily the activi-
ties of existing dispersed organizations responsible for education statis-
tics, finance and curricula reform. The strengthened Bureau would arrange
for an improvement in the collection and assembly of data about existing
facilities and about additional facilities required in the future. It
would pay particular attention to drawing up an overall program for tech-
nical education at all levels. It would also make recommendations on the
most suitable form of agricultural education for schools.  The Bureau would
draft a long-term plan for the educational system placing particular em-
phasis on economic utilization of existing facilities and qualitative im-
provement. The project includes 5 man-years of fellowships for Liberians.
5.19      University P]anning Unit.  To enable the Government to worlk out
a detailed development plan for the University, in accordance with the
needs outlined in para. 4.07 and 5.11, the project would provide 7.5 man-
years of specialist services.
5.2f      School Administration and Teaching.  Twenty man-years of special-
ist services and two man-years of fellowships would be provided to assure
the successful operation of the proposed new multilateral schools and the
teclhnical teacher training program.
5.21      Protect Implementation Unit.  To assist the Government in carrying
out this project, 18 man-years of specialist services would be provided to
form a competent project unit.
Evaluation of the Project
5.22      To enable the Government and the Association to assess the ulti-
mate success of the proposed project in attaining its objectives, the Govern-
ment undertook, during negotiations, to establish not later than February 28,
1975, a "tracer system" for project institutions and for a limited number of
traditional institutions (as agreed between the Government and the Associa-
tion), which would provide information concerning the educational achieve-
ment (including advanced studies or premature termination and repetition of
any stage of eduication), and subsequent employment of a representative sample
of students.
Cost of tThe Project
5.23      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.6 million (more
details are given in Annex 10) and is summarized below:



- 16 -
TJS$ millions
% of
Local     Foreign       Total      Total
Kakata Teacher Training Institute 0.24           0.38        0.62        6.5
Demonstration School                 n.n8        0.14        0.22        2.3
Secondary Science Teacher
Training                           0.01        0.04        0.05        0.5
Technical Teacher Training           0.00        0.03        0.03        0.3
Voinjama Multilateral High
School                             0.57        1.01        1.58       16.5
Zwedru Multilateral High
School                             0.54        0.96        1.50       15.7
College of Agriculture and
Forestry                           0.55        1.05        1.60       16.7
Technical Assistance                 0.30        1.73        2.03       21.2
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                     0.20        0.33         0.53        5.5
(b)  Price                        0.44        0.98         1.42       14.8
TOTAT Project Cost           2.93        6.65        9.58      100.0
5.24      A breakdown of cost by type of expenditure, is as follows:
US$ millions
% of
Local     Foreign       Total      Total
Construction
(a)  Academic and Communal           0.87        1.32        2.19       22.9
(h)  Boarding                        0.26        0.39        0.65        6.8
(c)  Staff Housing                  0.30         0.45        0.75        7.8
(d)  Site Development                0.28        0.41        0.69        7.2
(e)  Professional Services           0.13        0.30        0.43        4.5
Subl-total                     1.84        2.87        4.71       49.2
Furniture                            0.09        0.17        0.26        2.7
liuipment                            0.06        0.57        0.63        6.6
Sub-total                      0.15        0.74        0.89         9.3
Technical Assistance                 0.30        1.73        2.03       21.2
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                        0.20        0.33        0.53        5.5
(b)  Price                          0.44        0.98         1.42       14.8
TOTAL Project Cost             2.93        6.65        9.58      100.0



- 17 -
5.25      The cost estimates for project institutions are derived from
recent school building costs in Liberia and based upon information obtained
from public and private enterprises. The estimated average school construc-
tion cost (May 1971) is US$ 15 equivalent per square foot of gross area.  This
cost and the estimated costs per student place are on the high side in compari-
son with other Bank-IDA financed projects (Annex 11). The high cost of construc-
tion in Liberia (up to $20 per foot square for school construction) is due to
(i) the abnormally high cost of labor resulting from the construction indus-
try's heavy reliance on skilled expatriate personnel; (ii) high proportion
of building materials which have to be imported coupled with high internal
transportation costs; and (iii) conflict of interest arising from close con-
nections between contractors and government officials which have permitted
a few major contractors to control sources of supply and prices. Local cost
adjustments varying between 10% and 30% of basic prices have been made for
buildings in rural areas to compensate for the high transportation costs,
lack of local skilled labor and shortage of certain building materials.
5.26      The project cost includes a contingency allowance (i) to cover
any unforeseen physical cost increases which may emerge during the design
and building period, equal to 10% of estimated costs for building, 12% for
site development, 10, for professional services and 5% for furniture and
equipment; (ii) for price escalation during the implementation period based
on cost trends in recent years, equal to 20% for building, site development,
professional fees, furniture and equipment (estimated at 6.5% per year) and
157 for technical assistance (estimated at 37 per year) (Annex 12). Total
contingencies represent 20% of the project cost and provide 5% for physical
increases and 15% for price escalation.
5.27      The foreign exchange component of US$6.6 million, representing
697 of the total project cost has been calculated as follows: site develop-
ment and buildings 60%; furniture 65%; equipment 90%; professional services
70%; and technical assistance 85%.
5.28      The foreign exchange cost estimates were determined on the basis
of prevailing prices and dollar equivalents at the time of appraisal. It
is expected that the variations in currency exchange rates which have oc-
curred will cause only minor chanoes (based on the likely share of the
various countries in foreign procurement) in the total cost of the project
and, therefore, no adjustment in the foreign exchange component has been
made.
VI. IMPLFE!NTATION AND DISBURSFMENT
6.01      Project Administration.  A project unit has been established
within the Ministry of Education to:  (a) supervise project implementation;
(b) coordinate activities within the Government and associated bodies; and
(c) provide liaison with the Association. The unit includes on a full-time
basis:  (i) a Liberian project director, who would be responsible for the



- 18 -
administration of the project and would report directly to the  'iTiJSter of
Education; and will include:  (ii) a deputy project director, who would
assist the project director and whose appointment wouil(1 be a colodlition for
effectiveness of the credit; (iii) a pro-ject arcihitect; (iv) a project ac-
countant; and (v) a procurement specialist.  All appointments, except that
of the project director, would be provided under technical assistance; the
Government has appointed qualified counterparts to each of the specinlists;
it has also agreed to provide the project unit with supportinp staff and
facilities as required.  During negotiations the Government a]so a,rred
that the Deputy M'inisters of the Department of the Treasury and the "Inis-
tries of Public Worls, Agriculture and Planning andI Economic Affairs and
the equivalent officer in the Bureau of the Budget would be available for
consultation and to provide assistance to the project director in inple-ment-
ing the project.  It was also agreed that not later than June 3n, 197T, the
Covernment and the Association would review the performance of the officers
and counterpart staff in the project unit and in the lig,ht of such review,
and if both parties agreed, replace one or all of the specialists provided
under technical assistance by their respective counterparts, and if con-
sidered appropriate, appoint as advisers to the newly apnointed1 officers
the technical assistance specialists with whor they were formerly worling.
6.02      Professional Services:  The implementation of the project would
require professional manpower beyond the Government's present resources.
A consulting firm acceptable to the Association would, therefore, be needed
for the design and supervision of construction. The Covernment agreed, dur-
ing the negotiations, to commence as soon as possible the selection of quali-
fied consultants acceptable to the Assoclation.
6.03      Site Acquisition.  The Kakata Rural Training Institute and the
College of Agriculture and Forestry are on sites already acquired by the
Government.  The site for the demonstration school to be built at Vakata
has been selected but has not yet been acquired.  The sites for the multi-
lateral high schools have been selected and are on land owned by local
governments. Assurances have been obtained during the negotiations that
all land reouired (acceptable to the Association) for carrying out the proj-
ect will be acauired by the Government not later than August 31, 1972.
Land required would be provided without cost to the project.
6.04      Procurement.  All contracts for the supply of furniture and
equipment and for construction of schools would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding.  To ensure that constrtuction work
under the project is properly carried otut all contractors should be pre-
qualified. The capacity of locally registered contractors is adequate for
the purposes of the project and it is unlikely that foreigrn contractors
would be awqarded any of the contracts.  Domestic manufacturers should be
accorded a margin of preference which will be the existing rate of customs
and import duties applicable to imported goods or 157 of the c.i.f. cost
of imports, whichever is the lower.
6.05      Disbursements.  The Association would disburse or reimburse
(i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and books, or 1007 of
ex-factory cost if locally produced; (ii) 100% of the foreign cost of



- 19 -
tecl,nfcol issistnnccv; and (iii) 70%, of total cost of civi] works, constilt-
ants' services and furnitture. The proposed credit would amount to UJS87.2
million, or 757 of the total estimated project cost, and would he disburseo
over a 5-1/2 year period (Annex 13), construction would be completed in
abotut 2-1/2 years (Annex 14) and the technical assistance coTnponent in
ahout 5-1/l  years (Annex 15).  Retroactive disbursement not exceedinFg
SlO1n,r0n would he ma(le available for expenditures incurred from February
1, 1072, to tbe date of signing the Agreement in respect of the profes-
siona]. services and techni.cal assistance costs.
VII.  AGREENTENTS REACPEPD AIT) RECOT?4FNDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the follouting prin-
cipal points:
(i) the organization of appropriate courses for the training
of technical. and other teachers (paras. 5.06 and 5.07);
(ii)  the introduction of a new curri.culum for the multilateral
high schools (para. 5.n9);
(iii)  for the College of Agriculture and Forestry:  (a) the appoint-
mont of a denn and associate deans; (b) the extension of
T7'PP/FAr technical assistance;  (c) revi-sions of the curricula
(paras. 5.13 and 5.14);
(iv)  tlhe estahiishment of a graduated sal,ary scale for teachin,
staff (pnrA. 5.15); and
(v) the, appointment of adequate staff to the project unit
(para. 6.01).
7.02      The rovernwent has established a project un-it and has appointed
a project director, and cotnterparts to the deputy project director, the
project architect, the project accolntant, and the Droject procurement
specialist (para. 6.01).
7.0      A condition for effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be
thle appointment of a deputy project director acceptable to the Association
(para. (i.01).
7.(,n     The project is suitable for ant IDA Credit of IT,S 7.2 million to
tbe Repuolic of Liberia.






APPENDIX I
Page 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Administration
1.        The Liberian Department of Education administers the public
schools and exercises some control over the private schools. In 1970,
about 67% of elementary and nearly 50% of secondary school pupils were
in Government schools while 33% of elementary and 50% of secondary school
pupils were in private schools. Private schools are operated by religious
groups, industrial concerns and individual citizens. Administration of
public education is highly centralized, the Department of Education being
responsible for supervision, teacher recruitment and hiring, curricula,
examinations and finance. Authority is concentrated in the hands of the
Secretary of Education (Chart 1). The Department is grossly overstaffed
at the central level, employing about 330 people to administer a school
system of just over 1,000 schools. There is no clear definition of res-
ponsibilities within the Department and a tendency to refer even matters
of detail to the Secretary for decision. The planning section of the
Department was strengthened and made into a Bureau of Planning and Re-
search in 1970. An education plan for the period 1968 to 1971 has not
been fully implemented and work has not yet begun on a plan for the next
period.
2.        The Department of Education provides school supervisors for each
of the country's nine counties. This system suffers from many deficien-
cies; there is a shortage of supervisors and they are often not fully
qualified, it is often difficult for them to reach schools both because
roads are often impassable during the lengthy rainy season and because of
insufficient transportation and travel allowances. For these reasons it
is also difficult to collect accurate statistical information on educa-
tion.
3.        At the higher education level, the state-supported University of
Liberia and two other private colleges have considerable autonomy although
the Government exercises budgetary control over the University.
Structure and Enrollment
4.        The structure of the education system (Chart 2) in many respects
resembles that in the United States and the language of instruction is
English. It consists of: (a) kindergarten education for pupils aged
5-6; (b) pre-elementary English language instruction; (c) six years of
elementary school (grades 1-6); (d) three years of junior high school
(grades 7-9); (e) three years of senior high school (grades 10-12) either
in general, teacher training or technical education; and (f) a four or
five year university course.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
5.        Upward movement through the system is controlled by national
examinations at the end of each level of schooling: at elementary (grade
6), junior high (grade 9) and senior high (grade 12). Those who do not
pass the examination may try again or may enter directly into the labor
force. The emphasis in education is heavily academic: of a total of
50 public senior high schools 45 are general schools, while only three
are for vocational - technical education and two for teacher training.
Enrollment by age and sex, by level and type of education and by control-
ling authority are shown in Chart 3 and Annexes 1 and 2.
Pre-Elementary Education
6.        It is required that all elementary pupils speak English before
entering the first year of elementary school (grade 1). Because many
rural communities speak only native languages, a great number of free,
pre-elementary classes, concentrating primarily on the teaching of English
have been established. There are therefore two types of pre-elementary
courses: (a) a kindergarten for pupils about five to six years of age
and, (b) pre-grade 1 English language courses for pupils of ages anywhere
from five to 18. Since it takes some pupils several years to learn
English, a number of them remain in pre-elementary classes for as long
as four or more years. Although the enrollment: age-group (5-6) ratio
at the pre-elementary level is 65%, this does not reflect the high pro-
portion of pupils who are overage; it is estimated that only a small per-
centage of the total age group 5-6 in Liberia attend kindergarten schools.
Enrollments and teacher needs are shown in Annex 3.
Elementary Education
7.        Basic data for government and non-government elementary schools
in 1970 was as follows: (more details are given in Annex 3).
% of       % of
Teacher/    Teachers   Age Group  Boys/Girls
Grades  Enrollment  Teachers   Pupil Ratio  Qualified  in School    Ratio
1-6      80,000     2,600         1:30          50%         50%        7:3
8.        Elementary education is free (other than for textbooks and uni-
forms) and compulsory between the ages of 6 and 16, but pupils are permit-
ted to start at a later than normal age. Although official statistics
indicate that approximately 50% of the elementary age group attends school,
these figures include a high proportion of overage pupils. It is probable
that only 25% of the 6-11 year age group is enrolled. Because there is a
high repeater and dropout rate and compulsory education laws are not
strictly enforced, only 3 out of 10 entering elementary school complete
grades 1-6. In 1970 it was estimated that the average dropout rate
reached 67%, largely because of financial problems, early marriage in
the case of girls, unattractive and inadequately equipped schools, and



APPENDIX I
Page 3
poor quality of teaching. The Secretary of Education reported that, of
those who registered for the grade 6 national examination in 1966, the
average number of years spent by each pupil in study had totalled 17.6,
thus giving some indication of the extent of repetition. About half of
all teachers in pre-elementary and elementary schools are unqualified,
thus seriously contributing to the low quality of education at these
levels.
9.        The Government intends to concentrate future development on
qualitative rather than quantitative improvement in elementary education.
A rural teacher training program sponsored by UNDP/UNESCO/UNICEF/WFP and
USAID is, in addition to training teachers, currently assisting in broad-
ening and updating elementary education curricula. Two hundred out of a
total of 900 elementary schools will participate in the first phase of
this joint Government-donor agencies pilot project.
Secondary Education
10.       Secondary education consists of a 3-year junior high school
course (grades 7-9) followed by a 3-year senior high school course (grades
10-12) in either general or vocational-technical subjects or in teacher
training. A majority of students attend general secondary schools.
11.       Basic data for government and non-government secondary schools
in 1970 was as follows: (more details are given in Annex 4).
Pupil/   Z of     Z of Age  Boys/
Teacher  Teachers  Group in  Girls  % of
Grade          Enrollment  Teachers  Ratio   Qualified  School   Ratio  Girls
7-9
(Junior High)   11,572        469      25:1       46        16.1    24:7    23
10-12
(Senior High)    3,922        449       9:1       46         5.7    26:9    26
10-12
(Teacher
Training)         390        32       12:1      89         0.5     5:1    17
10-12
(Vocational
Training)         887        69       13:1      40         1.3     4:1    20
TOTAL      16,771      1,019       17:1      46        12.0     3:1    25



APPENDIX I
Page 4
General Secondary Education
12.       The total enrollment, 15,500 pupils, in general secondary educa-
tion (grades 7-12) represented approximately 11% 1/ of the age group in 1970
compared with a 1965 figure of 8,406 (6.5% of the age group), which repre-
sents an increase at an annual average rate of 13% during the last five
years. Approximately half of these pupils were in Government schools and
half in private institutions. Government policy aims at an enrollment of
about 20% of the age group in secondary schools by 1980 which implies a 7%
future annual expansion rate. Annex 5 shows the projected enrollments for
the period 1970-80.
13.       General secondary education is of generally low quality and suf-
fers from many deficiencies: the dropout rate is 31% for junior high
schools and 23% for senior high schools; the curricula concentrate almost
entirely on academic subjects with emphasis on social studies and language
leading to qualifications for University entry; about 25% of the pupils
either do not appear for, or fail the national examinations taken at both
the end of junior and senior high schools; buildings are generally of very
poor quality and inappropriate design and the lack of equipment and short-
age of textbooks result in largely verbal teaching with little or no demon-
stration or practical application; failure to consolidate secondary schools
leads to inefficiency and the quality of education in the small, rural
schools particularly suffers; 32% of secondary schools have an enrollment
of between 25 and 100 pupils and 61% have 200 or less pupils; the average
secondary teacher:pupil ratio is an uneconomic 1:17, and in some rural
schools is as low as 1:3. About 46% of the total secondary enrollment is
in these rural schools, and 54% is concentrated in the capital city and
surrounding urban area. The Government's plan to consolidate schools so
as to have one or two large secondary schools in each country should im-
prove the quality of education and raise the teacher:pupil ratio to 1:25
by 1979.
14.       Less than half the general secondary teaching force is qualified;
possession of a bachelor's degree even without any pedagogical content is
regarded as a qualification for teaching. Of the 1,000 teachers employed
in 1970, 48% were expatriates and almost all of them were qualified teachers
while only 10% of the Liberian staff could be regarded as fully qualified.
Vocational and Technical Education
15.       Vocational education is provided in limited form at the secondary
level. Only a very few, perhaps as few as six out of a total of 115 secon-
dary schools, provide any lower level secondary vocational education. The
best known of these is the recently built and well equipped William V. S.
Tubman lligh School in Monrovia which has 1,100 students of whom 350 are
1/ Although no statistical data is available on the actual age of pupils
in schools, in those which were visited, 40% of the pupils were over
18 and several over 22 years old in both junior and senior high schools.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
studying industrial arts. The UNDP/ILO newly established rural crafts
training center at Klay will also provide, for about 60 students, one-year
post-elementary basic skill courses in the fields of mechanical, electrical
and building crafts and for girls, home economics.
16.      Ulpper secondary level vocational and technical education is pro-
vided at only three institutions: effectively at two training centers both
originally operated by mining companies and, very inefficiently, by one tech-
nical institute operated by the Government. The mining company schools are
the Liberian-American Swedish Center at Yekepa recently taken over by the
Government and the Bong Mines Vocational Training Center. Both have similar
three-year courses in general mechanics, electro-mechanics, auto mechanics
and at Yekepa there is also a course in carpentry. The Yekepa center en-
rolled 120 students in 1971 and students who are successful easily obtain
employment as skilled workers, either in the Liberian American Swedish
Minerals Company or other industrial firms; the Bong Mines center enrolled
42 in 1971 and trains an annual output of 12 a year, all of whom are employed
by the Bong Mines Company. The Government institution, the Booker Washington
Technical Institute at Kakata, offers a four-year course (grades 10-13) in
each of eleven different trades; its 1971 enrollment, all boarding students,
was 636. It is the oldest and largest institution of technical education in
Liberia and enjoys high prestige in the community: many Liberians assume
that the Institute should be able to train technicians able to supervise
the skilled craftsmen trained in the vocational training centers. Most of
those leaving the Institute, however, are neither technicians nor skilled
craftsmen, are not easily absorbed by industry and often work in fields
other than those for which they were trained. The Institute is ineffi-
ciently run by an administrative staff inadequately qualified in engineer-
ing. From 1954-65, USAID spent USS4.19 million to re-equip and improve
the school, but most of the equipment has disappeared and many of the
improvements are difficult to see: many buildings, especially the workshops,
are in need of repair and some are not safe; technical equipment is improper-
ly used and badly maintained. The result is a demoralized student body and
an average dropout rate over the last 10 years of 58%.
17.       Higher technical education (post-high school level) does not exist
at present. The Government has undertaken construction of an institute
subsequently designated as a 500 student technical college and technical
teacher training institute; it is being built in honor of the late President
Tubman at his birthplace in Harper which is isolated from industry and
distant from Monrovia; it is also grandiose in scale and far from complete.
18.       Of the existing teaching force of 65 in vocational and technical
education, only approximately half are Liberians and most of them are in-
adequately qualified. There is at present no functioning technical teacher
training in Liberia.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Agricultural Education
19.       Agricultural education is limited at the elementary and secondary
levels.  In elementary schools some agriculturally-related subjects are in-
cluded in the curriculum, but very few schools teach agrictulture and fewer
operate gardens to support the teaching.  4-H clubs play a small part in
agricultural education at this level. In some high schools, pre-vocational
courses, including student project work at home, are taught by teachers
through the "Future Farmers" associations but, in the past, little attentlon
has been given to agricultural education in the reorganization of curricula
at this level.
20.       The only middle-level agricultural training in Liberia is pro-
vided by the Booker Washington Technical Institute in its four-year upper-
secondary (grades 10-13) course. However, although the curriculum provides
for 40% farm practice, facilities for this are so poor that the few students
who complete the course (an average of only 12 a year during the last 12
years) cannot be considered qualified for agricultural employment and many
drift into other jobs.
21.       Higher level agricultural education is also limited.  The College
of Agriculture and Forestry of the University of Liberia (joined into a
single faculty in 1967 with assistance from the ULNDP and FAO) offers a four-
year post-secondary agriculture and forestry degree. It is also possible
for students who wish to become teachers to combine agricultural and educa-
tion courses in their degree. Total output from the College has averaged
only nine per year during the last five years, but the increased student
intake of 57 in 1970 indicates that the College will be fully utilized in
the future and should produce an annual output of about 45 graduates each
year if anticipated new facilities are constructed. Because of the low
caliber of secondary school students, the College's curriculum has had to
contain an unduly high proportion of English and general studies; the
agricultural and forestry content is however well conceived but requires
to give greater emphasis to management techniques, particularly for rubber.
Physical facilities at the College's main site at the University in Monrovia
are totally inadequate and the College farm and forest, which provide ex-
cellent opportunities for practical work, are 17 miles away and are there-
fore not fully utilized owing to frequent difficulty with transportation
and scheduling of classes.
22.       In regard to agricultural extension services, in 1969 an agri-
cultural extension training center was established at the College farm,
providing six-month in-service courses for staff of the extension service,
rubber advisory service and for forest rangers and home economics extension
workers. The efficiency of the extension and research services is very low,
but with new leadership in the Department of Agriculture it is likely that
development schemes being prepared will eventually be implemented, thus
creating a demand for training at all levels. Virtually no residential
training is provided for farmers except under a Chinese (Taiwan) bilateral
assistance program for expansion of rice cultivation.



APPENDIX I
Page 7
Euementnary Tencher Trrinlnjj
23.       There are two elementary teacher training institutes both of
which provide a three-year post-junior high school course leading to a
qualification to teach in elementary schools. These institutes, located
at Kakata and Zorzor, are both Government controlled, coeducational and
residential and their students receive, in addition to free tuition, books
and lodging, a monthly stipend of US$10. In 1970 the total enrollment in
both schools was 390 (greater than the capacity of 375) and the total out-
put was 92 teachers.
24.       Only about 1750 teachers, or 51% of the total elementary teaching
force of 3.400 are qualified. If pupil enrollment increases to approximately
225,000 by 1980 as anticipated, and a teacher/pupil ratio of 1:40 is assumed,
a total of about 5,600 elementary teachers will be needed by that time.
This means that if wastage and replacement are taken into account, there
will be a demand for about 4,000 additional qualified elementary teachers
by 1980. A program for combined pre-service, in-service and rural develop-
ment training has begun with assistance from donor agencies. The program,
which will also include curriculum development and textbook production,
is operating at both teacher training institutes and, over a five-year
period, 1971-76, will give pre-service training to 500 teachers, upgrade
2,600 teachers to full qualifications and provide in-service training to
about 250 supervisors and school principals.
Secondary Teacher Training
25.       General secondary teacher training is given in two institutions,
the University of Monrovia and the private Cuttington College. Both offer
a four-year post-high school course leading to qualification as a secondary
teacher. Their total enrollment (including some primary teacher trainees)
has been at an average of only 137 students per year over the last six years
and during this period, they have produced annually an average of only 11
graduates qualified to teach, of which an average of only one per year has
graduated in science and mathematics.
26.       Of a total secondary teaching force of about 1,000 only 100 are
qualified Liberian teachers the remainder being expatriate or unqualified
teachers. By 1980, Liberia will require a secondary teaching force of about
1,200. If it is assumed that at that time the number of expatriate teachers
will be the same as at present, about 800 Liberian teachers should be
trained by that year. The University has drafted a plan to train qualified
secondary teachers, particularly in science and mathematics: in addition
to pre-service course, the University in 1972 will begin in-service courses
to upgrade 400 teachers over a period of five years. The present teacher
colleges' staff appears to be well qualified but at both universities there
is a lack of equipment, teaching materials, and updated reference books and
textbooks.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
27.       Secondary teachers are generally dissatisfied because of low
salaries which have, in most cases, remained unchanged for over 10 years,
limited promotional opportunities, inadequate arrangements for retirement
pensions and lack of housing and other amenities. The attrition rate is
high, but many teachers remain in the profession because they are unable
to find other employment.
Higher Education
28.       Higher education in Liberia is provided in three institutions:
the Government supported University of Liberia and the private Cuttington
College which award bachelor degrees after four-year courses and the private
College of Our Lady of Fatima. The University of Liberia, located in the
capital city of Monrovia was given its charter in 1951, and is a non-
sectarian co-educational institution with schools of liberal and fine arts,
law, education, medicine and agriculture and forestry. In 1970 it had
a total enrollment of 849 students, compared with a 1969 enrollment of
1,109. The reason for the reduction was a 100% increase in tuition fees.
Approximately 45% of the students are enrolled in liberal and fine arts, 13%
in education, 11% in agriculture and forestry and the remainder in other
fields (Annex 6). The total number of graduates in 1969 was 113. Of the
total teaching staff of 164, ninety-seven (59%) were foreigners. The teacher/
student ratio was 1:7. Cuttington College in Suakoko is a Protestant
missionary institution which receives a limited amount of Government aid
and awards degrees on liberal arts, science and education. The total
enrollment in 1970 was 242 students. The College is facing serious financ-
ial problems and its future is uncertain. Our Lady of Fatima College at
Harper is a Catholic institution which theoretically provides higher
education but its total enrollment, largely in-service training for
elementary school teachers, was 18 students in 1970. It is expected to
close by 1972 due to financial difficulties. Total enrollment in all
institutions of higher education in 1970 was 1,109 and the number graduating
with degrees was about 100.
29.       In addition to higher education provided in Liberia, the Government
finances a US$1 million scholarship program which in 1970 assisted 320
Liberians studying abroad, almost one-third of the total Liberian enroll-
ment in institutions of higher education.



APFINPIX I I
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Liberia suffers from a serious shortage of trained personnel;
it would not be possible for the project to be implemented satisfactorily
without substantial inputs of technical assistance. The Government already
receives technical assistance from a number of donor agencies; 50 man-years
of UNDP assistance is being provided for the Kakata Rural Teacher Training
Institute, 16 man-years of fellowships by UNESCO for the William V. S. Tubman
Teachers College of the University of Liberia for science teaching, and there
is also a UNDP/FAO program of assistance to the College of Agriculture and
Forestry. This assistance would be integrated with the proposed IDA proj-
ect. In addition, the project would provide 57 man-years of specialist
services and 7 man-years of fellowship training overseas for manpower and
education planning, technical teacher training, secondary school administra-
tion and teaching and project implementation.
2.        The total cost of technical assistance to be provided under the
project excluding contingencies, is estimated at US$2.0 million for special-
ists, including US$0.03 million for fellowship training overseas; the imple-
mentation period would be about 5 1/2 years (Annex 15).
3.        The technical assistance to be provided under the project is
likely to consist of the following specialists and fellows (numbers in
parenthesis show man-years):
A.   Specialist Services (57)_
(i) Manpower Planning Unit (4.5). A manpower economist, chief
of the group (1.5); a labor market specialist (1.5); a
statistician (1.5);
(ii) Education Planning Unit (7). An educational planner, chief
of the group (3); an education statistician/demographer
(2) an economist (1); a school building specialist (1);
(iii) Technical Teacher Training (6). One technical teacher train-
ing specialist, chief of the group (3.5); one teacher train-
specialist (2.5);
(iv)  Secondary Education (14).  For two multilateral schools as
follows: Two school administrators (6); two agricultural
educators (4); two technical educators (4);
(v) University Planning Unit (7.5). A university planner, chief
of the group (2); academic planners in liberal and fine arts,
science, law, education, agriculture and forestry, and



APPENDIX II
Page 2
medicne - each for two months (1.5); an architect (2); a
finance specialist (1); a number of short-term consultancies
(1);
(vi) Project Implementation Unit (18). A deputy project di-
rector (5); project architect (4); project accountant (5);
and, a procurement specialist (4);
B.   Fellowships for Overseas Studies (7)
(i) Secondary Education (2). Two principals-designate (2);
(ii) Educational Planning Unit (5). Counterparts to the
specialists; two education planners (2); two education
statisticians (2); one education economist (1).
4.        The manpower planning unit, would assist the Government manpower
planning commission in surveying existing manpower shortages, the role
of expatriate manpower and trends in unemployment and underemployment.
It would make projections on future demand for all levels of manpower
in different areas of the economy and would indicate the way in which these
demands could be fitted into a general strategy for education being planned
by the education planning unit (para. 5 below). The unit would make a
study of the wage structure, with particular reference to existing recruit-
ment and promotion practices and would establish an administrative structure
which would be responsible for the collection of manpower statistics on a
regular basis and would ensure close liaison amongst the different persons
and agencies involved in manpower assessment.
5.        The education planning unit would assist the Bureau of Planning
and Research of the Department of Education and would work closely with
the Department of Planning and Economic Affairs. It would improve the
collection and aseembly of data on the existing school system, formulate
plans for better use of existing facilities and for additional facilities
required in the future, draw up a comprehensive program for technical and
agricultural education in cooperation with Liberian counterparts and
specialists serving under technical assistance programs and draft a long-
term plan for the education system laying particular emphasis on economic
utilization of existing facilities and qualitative improvements.
6.        The specialists for the technical. teacher training program would
be responsible for organizing, equipping and subsequently teaching
technical teacher trainees, with particular emphasis on pedagogy as applied
to technical training. Most of their work would be done at the William
V. S. Tubman High School in Monrovia.
7.        The specialists to be provided for the multilateral high schools
would be responsible, with their Liberian counterparts for administration,
the drawing up of curricula for new courses, teaching students in general
mechanics and agriculture and the training of counterparts.



APPENDIX II
Page 3
8.        The iTniversity planning unlt would draw up, in association with
the University Development Committee a plan for the future structure of
the University of Liberia taking into account the results of the manpower
planning study (para. 5.17) and working closely with the education planning
unit (para. 5.18); the unit would make recommendations on the most appropri-
ate future siting of the various schools of the University, time schedules
for the move of the different parts of the University to Fendell, physical
plant development, appropriate curricula, research policy, methods of
reducing the present high student attrition rate, enrollments, staff
development and financial implications. The unit would also ensure the
close integration of the College of Agriculture and Forestry with adjoin-
ing practical training facilities and other associated schools of the
University.
9.        As this would be the first education project to be financed in
Liberia, 4 specialists would be appointed to the project unit to assist
in project implementation and train Liberian counterparts. The Liberian
project director would be responsible for overall implementation of the
project, assisted by a deputy project director. The deputy project direc-
tor, project architect, project accountant, and project procurement special-
ist would be provided under technical assistance. The project architect
would be responsible for architectural and construction aspects, the proj-
ect accountant for financial aspects and the procurement specialist for
procurement of furniture and equipment required for project institutions.
10.       Two one-year fellowships would be provided for Liberian principals-
designate of the proposed multilateral schools, their training timed to
take place after the candidates had acted as counterparts to the technical
assistance specialists to be provided under the project. Fellowships would
also be provided for counterparts to the technical assistance personnel to
be attached to the Department of Education's planning unit.
11.       Details of the implementation program would be discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. The proposed time schedule is shown in
Annex 15.






LIBERIA
Enrollment and Teachers by Level and Type of Education
Government and Non-Government Institutions
1970
I/                               Pupil/
Age Group     Population of                   Enrollment as 7.          Teaching Staff        Teacher       % of Staff
Level and Type      Grades      Coverage         Age Group       Enrollment   of Age Group           Total      Expatriate      Ratio       Qualified
1.  Pre-Grade 1         A - B          5 - 6           61,000         40,028          65.6                768*          80          52:1            51%
2.  Elementary          1 - 6          7 - 12         161,000          80,217         49.8              2,616          794          31:1            51%
3. Junior High
School             7 - 9        13 - 15          72,000          11,572          16.0                469          200          25:1            46%
4. Senior High
School            10 - 12       16 - 18          68,000           3,922           5.7                449          250           9:1            46%
5.  Teacher Training  10 - 12         16 - 18          68,000             390          0.5                  32            9         12:1            89%
6. Vocational and
Technical         10 - 12        16 - 18         68,000              887          1.3                  69          30          13:1            407T,
7. Total Secondary
Education (3, 4,
5 and 6)           7 - 12       13 - 18         140,000          16,771          11.9              1,019          489          16:1            46%
8.  Higher Education  13 - 16         19 - 25         140,000           1,109           0.8                164           **           7:1           **
*     Mission estimate                                        Source:  1)   Statistics of Education in Liberia - 1970                                              z
**    Not available                                                          Department of Education, March 1971                                                   X
1/ Includes overage pupils                                              2)   Background Document - Department of Education
January 20, 1971
November 26, 1971                                                       3)   Government request Annex 102.1



LIRRRTA
ENROLLMENT BY GRADE, CONTROLLING AUTHORITY AND SEX - 1970
Grade                        Public                                 Private                          Grand Total                   Percent
Boys       Girls        Total         Boys        Girls       Total        Bovs        Girls        Total      D_istributio
Kindergarten          5,979       4,244       10,223        2,390       1,752        4,142        8,369       5,996      14,365            10.6
Pre-Grade            10,077       5.219       15,296       6,203        4,164       10,367       16,280       9,383     25,663             18.9
Total Pre-School  16.056        9,463       25,519       8,593        5           14,509       24,654     15,374      40,028             29.5
1               9,992       4,952       14,944        3,948        2,529       6,477       13,940       7,481      21,421            15.8
2                7,653      3,306       10,959        3,391        1,956       5,347       11,044       5,262      16,306            12.0
3                6,610      2,440        9,050        3,017        1,750       4,767        9,627       4,190      13,817            10.2
4               .5,811       1,817       7,628        2,529        1,306        3,835       8,340       3,123      11,463             8.4
5               4,707       1,306        6,013        2,304        1,077       3,381        7,011       2,383       9,394             6.9
6                3,965        883        4,848        2,104          864        2,968       6,069       1,747       7,816             5.8
Total Elementary  38,738       14,704      53,442       17,293        9,482       26,775       56,031     24.186      80,217             59.1
7                2,146        404        2,550        1,605          680       2,285        3,751       1,084       4,835             3.6
8                1,707        327        2,034        1,268          563        1,831       2,975         890       3,865             2.8
9                  998         164       1,162        1.238          472        1,710       2,236         636       2,872             2.1
Total Junior        4,851         895       5,746        4,111        1,715        5,826        8,962       2,610     11,572              8.5
High    (7-9)                 _____                                 _  ____
10                  644         117         761          591          305          896        1,235        422       1,657              1.2
11                  422          75         497          446          228          674          868         303      1,171             0.9
12                  437         118         555          375          164          539          812         282      1,094             0.8
Total Senior 1/
High (10-12)        1,503         310      1.813          1,412         697        2,109        2,915       1.007       3.922             2.9
TOTAL High School    6,354        1,205        7,559       5,523        2,412        7,935       11,877       3,617      15,494            11.4
(7-12)                _
GRAND TOTAL         61,148      25,372       86,520      31,407       17,812       49,219       92,557      43,182    135,739            100.0
1/ Does not include teacher trairing and vocational/technical education
Source: Statistics of Education in Liberia - 1970
Department of Education - March, 1971
November 5, 1971



LIBERIA
Pre-elementary and Elementary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs
(Government and Non-Government Schools)
1968 - 1980
Grade                 1968       1969      1970                1971       1972       1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980
Pre-elementary          37,316    39,107    40,028               40,100    40,200    40,500    40,700    41,000    41,400    42,700    44,300    45,800    47,600
1                 24,524    28,140    21,421               26,200    27,200    29,000    30,100    33,400    35,300    36,400    39,400    40,000    44,800
2                 16,719    18,310    16,306               20,200    22,800    25,800    27,200    27,100    30,200    33,800    33,800    36,900    38,000
3                 13,242    15,712    13,817               16,000    18,500    20,000    22,500    23,700    28,500    28,200    29,200    33,100    31,800
4                 10,926    11,845    11,463               12,200    13,200    13,900    16,000    16,900    16,000    17,800    20,700    21,100    24,600
5                  9,178     8,978      9,394              10,800    11,400    12,200    12,800    15,200    14,200    15,600    17,200    18,300    20,200
6                  8,067     8,216      7,816               9,500    10,000    10,600    11,200    11,600    12,200    13,500    14,500    15,600    17,000
Total              119,972   130,309   120,245              135,000   142,900   152,200   159,700   169,100   178,000   188,000   199,000   211,000   224,000
Pupil:Teacher Ratio      37:1                  35:1                 36:1    37:1       37:1      38:1        39:1      39:1       40:1      40:1       40:1       40:1
Teachers                 3,211        *       3,384                3,750     3,860      4,110     4,200      4,330      4,560      4,700      4,970     5,270      5,600
Enrollment projected at an average growth rate of 6.5% annually from 1970 to 1980.
Class size increased to average of 40 in 1977.
* Not available.
November 5, 1971



General Secondary Education -Number of Schools and Enrollment by Co-ties and Authority- 1970
County                                         issioc High School 1                                                     Senior High School-i                                              Total General Secondary School
Number of Schools                 Enrollment                %,op          Nubr of Schools                 Enrollment              % of            Nomber of Schools                  Enroll1ent                7. of
-  Eubfls               Total   E~~~Natoallmn     ulcPiaeTtlIPbi    rvt                         oa    National :              Piao        Too        ulcPr1t       oa               National
...EuhUu  tALm...  T4aI1  ~ tygC.a3    t____________1__                                                         _        EnroIlmeet Pyl          rit        Tt1       Pbi Prvt             Tt1tEn. -t
Hont.errado ~"            6         14          20    2.601    3,421          6,022      52.3                                      720           -         I3                                           I43 3,25.
Bassa                     3          3           6       238       293          531       5.0           2                  2        83~   -             83       20                                     I    31i23              644.0
Bong                       3         6           9       410       383          793       1.0           I          1                6527                44       40             4,      7        11         475  I462   i937                 6. 0
cape Mount                 2         2           4 ~I    150       222          372f      3.0           I          1       2:       47        65       1121      3.0            3       3         6          197!1  287         4943.
Crand Gedeb                1         2           3       180        181         361       30            2          -       2        75751                        2.03                   2525                          18        462.
Lofa                 -    4          1           5       665       177          842       7.0           2          2       4       31i    442                   11.0            6                             81      34       ,8            .
M4aryland                  6         3           9       721        471                                            2      192I                         470J410                          5 2613204987                  675    1,662          11.0
Ni.ba                !     1         2           3       358       400          758       7.0    j      1          1       2        52        83       137:      3.0    I       2       3    : 5    : 410             485       895          60(
Stone   !    4  6  10  423  278     701       6.0          2           - -                           I                                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 6  69       78       88          6.0
_____ _   ___ _____   ____   ____ _   ___ _____            ____  __  _6__0_       2       186         -         8          o6                   6    -   1260                 2 88        7
SinD____ _2                                                                                                                                                                                                 -__186___ __ 
TOTAL         I 30           39        ! 69    5,746    5,826         1571 100.0                19         26      45    1,513    2,109    3,9221   100.0               49      65       114        7,559   7,9353     5,9          100.0
1/ Schools op to grade 9                                                                                               Source:  Statistics of Education in Ltberia
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dprmn of Education  March 1971
2/ Schools up to grade 12
3/ Mission scho,ols and other private schools
4/   Includes Monrovia
Novemober 5, 1971h



LIBERIA
Secondary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs
(Government anl Non-Government Schools)
1968 - 1980
Grade          1968      1969      1970          1971      1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
7              4,147      4,587     4,835         5,100     5,500     5,900     6,100    6,500     6,700     6,900     7,400     7,600     7,800
8              3,011      3,211     3,865         3,900    4,200      4,300    4,600     4,900     5,200     5,600     5,700    6,000      6,500
9              2,287      2,477     2,872         3,000    3,300      3,500     3,700    4,000     4,200     4,500    4,800    5,200       5,500
Total Junior High   9,448    10,275   11,572          12,000   13,000   13,700   14,400   15,400    16,100    17,000    17,900    18,800   19,800
10              2,386      2,884    2,357          2,500     2,600     2,900     3,000    3,200     3,500     3,700     3,900    4,300      4,700
11              1,102      1,170    1,621          1,900     2,100     2,300     2,500    2,600     2,900     3,100     3,500     3,800     4,200
12                898        908    1,221          1,300     1,400     1,600    1,900     2,000     2,200     2,600     3,000     3,400     3,700
Total Senior High *  4,386     4,962     5,199         5,700     6,100     6,800     7,400    7,800     8,600     9,400   10,400    11,500   12,6oO
tOTAL SECONDARY    13,834    15,237   16,771          17,700   19,100    20,500   21,800    23,200    24,700    26,400    28,300    30,300    32,400
7-12
Pupil:Teacher Ratio  21:1       **                     17:1      18:1       19:1      20:1    21:1       22:1      23:1      24:1      25:1       25:1
Teachers          639       **       1,019          1,040    1,060    1,080    1,100    1,110       1,120     1,150    1,180    1,210       1,300
Enrollment projected at ar average growth rate of 6.8% annually frorm 1970 to 1980. Pupil:Teacher ratio increased to average 25:1 in 1979.
* Includes Teacher trainirg and technical education.
** Not available.
November 5, 1971



LIBERIA
Higher Education Enrollment by Faculty and Sex - 1970
University of Liberia        Cutting College              Total
Faculty                          Boys   Girls   Total    Boys   Girls   Total    Boys   Girls   Total
Liberal and Final Arts
and Sciences                      357     146      503     181      25      206      538    171      709
Agriculture and Forestry            125       1      126      -        -       -       125       1     126
Education                            89      22    311        14      10       241     110      25     135
Nursing                              -       10       10       6       6       12        6      16      22
Law                                  19       -       19       -       -        -       19       -      19
Business                             57       1       58       -       -        _        -       1      58
Extra-4bral                          16       6       22       -       -        -       16       6      22
Total                           663     186     849      201      41      242      871    220   1,091
Source: Statistics of Education in Liberia 1970
Department of Education
November 5, 1971



ANNEX 7
LIBERIA
Students Studying Abroad by Fields of Study
1965 - 1970
Fields                1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970
Humanities             21       35        29       30        13       14
Education              22       31        20       20        25       28
Fine Arts              10       15        30       30         8        4
Social Science         58      150       132      147        98       89
Natural Science        21       14        13       13        13       17
Engineering            47       73        53       64        36       37
Medical Science        82       87        88       92        71       71
Agriculture and
Forestry              14       22        18       18        13       12
Secretarial
Science                        21        **                 14        9
Others*               259       19        99       68        27       29
TOTAL:                535      447       482      482       318      310***
% Studying
Education           4.1      6.9       4.1      4.1       7.9      9.0
% Studying Science
Courses +          30.7     43.8      35.1     38.8      41.8     44.2
*          Others include unknown fields and those not otherwise classified.
Information not available.
Total number of students studying abroad as of September 15, 1970.
Source:    Azango, Bertha Baker, "The Present Socio-Econamic Situation in
Liberia and It's Implication for the Educational System."
November 5, 1971



ANN-EX 8
LIBERIA
Expenditure on Education
(us$ millions)
A. RECURRENT EXPENDITURES a/                          1969                 1970
1.  Total Public Expenditure                      60.75                62.05
2.  Total Central Goverrment
Expenditure on Education                      6.74                  7.05
3.  (2) as a percentage of (1)                    11.1%                i1.h%
B. DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
1. Total government development
expenditure                                                         5.90
2. Education
Elementary and Secondary                       0.38                 o.48
Higher Education                               0.20                 0.37
Teacher Training                                                    0.02
Public Health                                  0.91                 0.01
Other                                         0.10                 0.07
3.  (2) as a percentage of (1)                                            16%
C. FOREIGN ASSISTANCE FOR EDUCATION (Capital and Recurrent)
Management and Training                            0.11                 0.42
Elementary and Secondary Education                 2.48                 2.38
Higher Education                                   0.h4                 0.48
Teacher Training                                   0.23                 0.07
Health Education                                   0.05                 o.o6
Rural Youth                                        0.03                 0.03
Department of Education                            0.26                 0.32
===                   _
D. TOTAL EXPENDITURES
Central Government                                  7.50                  7-98
Recurrent                                        (6.81)                (7.03)
Development                                      (0.69) b/             (095)
Private Domestic                                    6.25 -                7.00
Foreign Assistance                                  6.60                  6.30
Official                                         (3.60) b/(3.80)
Private                                           6600                 (2.50)
Total            20.35                 21.28
a/ Contains some capital expenditures
b/ Mission estimates
J3ecemt)ber 13, 1971



A.NM 9
LIBURIA
ESTIIDTED ANNUAL REQUIRIMS FOR AGRICU=UBU AMD FORESEU GR AT ES
(1971 - 1976)
Department of Agriculture                         20
Bureau of Forestry
College of Agriulture and Foreetry                 3
Agricultural and Logging Industries               11
Rubber Farms                                       9
Rubber Advisory Service                            2
Miscellaneous                                      5
Source: Departent of Agriculture
November 5, 1971



LTbERIA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECI
Sumelary of Enrol ienn, Roarders, Stoff HOnsing
Tar1 intne  Costs of Inatitnlo    ad Techical Asssac
(in US$ 'E0Os, bated an May 197i  prices)
Cas  at Bh,ildi-O,*,Catf F-rsn _r                                                                     Total
Ac de=ic                                      Academic                                          Cate P n         Tet;a        Cnst no        Total
T.,I                  SnoOff   Case of sit.      and                   hff                     and                              Cnst nE    Profesionl         Physica       Iehicl          tel
Location  Uncolia-Lnt  Roarder-   ho-sina   Ucoininent   aesnei    Ea                oosing      Total    Coe-Inal   Boarding   Total    Equipmenr    _errices             Pacilities   Assistance 5    Cst
Teacher Trainin-
i.I(a)  R-tal T..chcr Tiraning istIL.t- (<--nsi-o)             tatoa           300       300         14           69.5         124.1     204.7      134.4       463.2       12.9         19.2      32.1        5.3           53.3            623.9           -             623.9
I.l(b)  Detttlstration School (non)                              katant        240         -          2           31.3        1.2.7.      -          19.2       156.4        9,9          -         9.9        8.0           18.7            224.3          -              024.3
1.2     Wtllia  V0.  . Tbesan Teacher Clleo.,
Untrersity of LIberia                                 M-nrovia                                                                                                                                       50.0              -              50.0          -              50.0
t.31a)  Venetianal Teatniag Center                            Tekepa   )                                                                                                                                     25.0         Z                   15.0        210.0            235.0
1.3(b)  Willim V.S. Tabhdn High Schael                        Meerovia i
Sub-tot-l  1                                                          540        300         IN          100.8        261.3      204.7      153.6      619.6       22.8         19.2      42.0       88.8           72.0             920.2        210.0         1133.2
2.  Secoadarn Ed.eti-on
2.1     Voinj,t_  Mlttleter-l High School                     VninSj           600        150         10         206.7        769.4      126.0      138.0    1,033.4        57.8         15.0      72.8      146.1          124.0          1,583.0        280.0          1,833.0
2.2        Zveadrq SHaltilate.al High School                  Z.edra           600      1i0          10          193.6        721.4      117.6      128.8       967.8       57.8         15.0      72.8     146.1           114.1          1,496.4         250.0         1,746.4
Sab-tolal  2                                                        1.200        300         20          400.3      1,490.8      243.6     266.8    2.001.2       115.6         30.0    145.6       292.2          240.1           3.079.4        5D0.0         3.579.4
3.  Rivher Edacan.oi
3.1     College of Ageit.ltare and Forescry.
Untierssilr  f Liberla                                F-ccdell        200        200         30          193.7        438.3      204.6     226.4       969,3       43.8         24.0      67.8      250.0          116.3           1,597.1          -           1,597.1
3.2    UTiver Sity Planning Grotp                                                                                                                                                                                                                          262.5           262.5
Sob-tonal  3                                                          200        200         30          193.7        438.3      204.6     326.4       969.3       43.8         24.0      67.8      250.0           116.3          1,597.1        262.5         1,859.6
4. Mianeower snd Ed.a. inn Pla-ning
4.1     8aapaaer PlannIng Cr-tp                                                                                                                                                                                                                            157.5           157.5
4.2     Ed-atiae   Planntng Gr-op                                                                                                                                                                                                                          270.0           270.0
Sab-totl  4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      427.5            427.5
5. Peolect Admleterratton
5.1     Penj-e  Unit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      630.0            830.o
TOTALS                                                              1,940        800         60          694.8                                       3,590.1                             255.4      631.0          428.4           5,599.7      2,030.0         7,629.7
C-ni.n.encale                             1.955.0
Total  fealeet Cast                       9.184.0
Percentage                                                                        60X7                                          60%                               65Y.       90%            702                            857.
Portion lachenge
Aeount                                                                           416.9                                       2,154.1                              166.0     567.9           299.9                       1,725.5
a  Iacladea apecieli1e  -Fervlee aad feileebhip4                                                                                                                                                                Toi Foreign Eachage
I0 Includes  ho-l eleec .enbers of the project -nit provided cadet teehnical aseitance.                                                                                                                              (Excluding Contingencies)                            5,330.3
tnn  $10,000 for YTkepe  -nd $15,000 far kereovi-.                                                                                                                                                                F-reign Eoh.anee on Conninasatiet                        1.312J0
TOTAL FOREiGN EXCHANGE              6_ 42.3
F.b-.mY, 1972



LIBERIA
Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutionsl/
(in U.S. Dollars)
Gross Area     Building Cost                    Furniture   Equipment
Category                       Sq. Ft.       per Sq. Ft.    Construction        Cost        Cost         Total Cost
Excluding        Including
Site Development Site Development
1.  Academic and Communal
Facilities
Voinjama Multilateral High
School (Secondary)                80 (81)         16 (11)            1,539           96          244        1,879 (1,104)
Zwedru Multilateral High
School (Secondary)                80 (81)         15 (11)            1,443           96          244        1,783 (1,104)
College of Agriculture and
Forestry              2/
(University Education)-         153               15                 2,630          219        1,250        4,099
2.  Boarding Facilities
Voinjama Multilateral High
School (Secondary)                56 (88)         15 (12)            1,008          100           -         1,108 ( 999)
Zwedru Multilateral High
School (Secondary)                56 (88)         15 (12)              941          100           -         l,01l ( 999)
College of Agriculture and
Forestry
(University Education)            85 (116)        12 (12)            1,228          120          -          1,348 (1,444)
3.  Staff Housing                    912 (1,572)       13 (11)          14,237           -            -        14,237 (16,436)
1/  Professional Fees and Contingencies are not included.
2/ Comparable figures not available.
T ) Figures in parenthesis give comparable data of other Bank-IDA financed
projects of similar level and type.



LIBERIA
Contingency Allowances
(US$ millions)
Site                                              f                     Professional            Technical Assistance
IDevelopment       Buildings           Furnitur          F Equipment         Services          trojet Unit          Other             Sub-total
Local   ForetL     Local  Foreign   Lcal   Freign   Locl _Foeig                       oregin    Local  Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Total
Contingency percentages
a. Unforeseen factors                                 12%       12%      lo%      lo%       5%       5%         5%      5%         10%     10%        Nil     Nil        Lil      Nil
b. Price escalation                                   20%       20%      20%      20%      20%      20%       20%      20%        20%      20%        15%    l5         15%      15%
Total a . b                                           32%      32%       30%      30%      25%      25%        25%     25%         30%     30%        15%     15%        15%      15%
Total Project Cost before Contingencies              0.278    0.4L17    1.436   2.154    0,089    0.166,    0.063   0.568         0.129  0300        0.094   0.536    0.205   1,195         2.294  5.336    7.630
Contingency Amounts
a.  Lbforeaeen faetors                               0.033    0.050    0.144   0.215    o.oo5    0.009        0.003   0.028       0.013   0.030        -        -         -        -        0.198   0.33P    0.S30
b. Price escalatios                                  0.056    0 083    0.287   0.431    0.018    0 033        0 013   0.114       G.026   0.060    0.014   0.080    01031   0.179           0.445   0.983    1.425
Sub-Total                                            0.089    0.133    0.431   0.646    0.023    0.042         o.016  0o142       0.039   0.090      0.014   0. 080      0.031  0.179       0.6h3   1.312    1.955
Total Project Cost Including Contingencies          0.367    0.550    1.867   2.800    03.112    0.208       0.079   0.710       0.168   0.390      0.108   0, 616      0.236  1.374       2.937   6.648    9. 585
February   1972



Annex 13
LIBERTA - ESrIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millJons)
Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarter*     I)isbursements         Disbursements           Balance
70     AMounits    _          Amounts                 Amounts
1          -        -            -         -         100.0        7.20
2        1.0       0.07         1.0       0.07        99.0       7.13
3        1.0       0.07         2.0       0.14        98.0        7.06
4        2.0       0.14         4.0       0.28        96.0       6.92
5        1.7       0.12         5.6       o.4o       94.4        6.80
6        1.7       0.12         7.2       o.52        92.8        6.68
7        6.8       0.49        14.0       1.01        86.0        6.19
8       12.5       0.90        26.5       1.91        73.5       5.29
9       16.1       1.16        42.6       3.07        57.4       4.13
10       1765       1.26        60.1       4.33        39.9        2.87
11       17.5       1.26        77.6       5.59        22.4       1.61
12        2.8       0.20        8o.04      5.79       19.6         1.41
13        3.7       0.27        84.2       6.06        15.8        1.14
14        3.7       0.27        87.9       6.33       12.1        0.87
15        5.4       0.39        93.3       6.72         6.7       0.48
16        1.4       0.10        94.7       6.82         5.3       0.38
17        1.5       0.11        96.2       6.93         3.8        0.27
18        1.1       0.08        97.3       7.01         2.7       0.19
19        1.4       0.10        98.7       7.11         1.3        0.09
20        0.4       0.03        99.2       7.14        0.8        0.06
21        o.5       0.04        99.7       7.18         0.3       0.02
22        0.3       0.02       100.0       7.20        0.0        0.00
* Beginning from Effective Date.
February 1972



LIBEtRc  - Ecu-tion  Ocect
?pi.sL.ieiuctcioadCecdtrhedg                 ul,
Yeats                      Firtt                               Seco.d                               Third                                 Fourth                              Fifth                    .Soith
Activity                                              Quarters        1         2         3       4        1         2         3       2        i        2         3       4                                     4        1         2       3         4         1        2
Ipl..e..totion Sthedole
Organizacion of Project Uhit & Project Progr-oeing               iiLiX       10X
Civil Works
Plane & Specifitati-ns                                                      1X1       0Xx       11X
PeeqoalIfiiatios.  Tendering & Contract Awards                                                  D0X    21X       2X1
Coo.tr.ction Period                                                                                                       XXX        21X    7XX        211    21X
Cuarantno Period                                                                                                                                                        12121    2XX       022    10D
F-rnitore od OEsipent
Data Preparation & Criteria                                      8dXX       012       XXX
Lists & Did Dlssoents Prprattittn                                                      D1X       XXi    DX        1X      X;11
P-eqooltftcti-o, Tendering & Ceat-at Awards                                                                      2102     1110       102
8.saiotctrsssg  Oehh'snry & iostoalltioo                                                                                                     DX12     YX1X    D;X
hoareotee Period                                                                                                                                                         XXI;1   120X      71110    1121
Technical Aanintaooe
A. Seociali.ts
a)  Project UlIt                                             10         1X1       1011      10X     XX1      100                K1K      210      1110    211        110     112       110    112        112      211      121       1121XX  X1X        12X
b)  Othee                                                    x7XX                           10Ci    XXX      0X1     YJOi       1)00     2X0      0111    XXi       2X; 10             )DX    DGC       1Xi        XXX     YCCi      1XX1    YXX        XXi       7XX
B. Fellowshies                                                   110                                                                  0       100 1X    2 YXX           112       112      110               1111     110       121      1XXX
0 tar ufrtber datails refe  to Assge  15
Etaenditures Schedalc                                         US$ villion
1   Civil Wlaks                                                 4.280                                                    0.430    0.640   1.070    0.850    0.860              0.100    0.100    0.23(1
2.  Fuenitore                                                   0.260                                                              0.050             0.090    0.090            O '    0.010    0.010
3.  Eqoipocot                                                   0.630                                                              0.130             0.220    0.220            0.010    G.=20    0.030
4.  Pr-fessianal Servi-co                                       0.430      0.020    0.040    0.090   0.dS1    0.040   0.020    0.020   0.040    0.040    0.030                 0.010    0.010    0.020
5. Technlitl Assist-ecs
A) S-ectaliets
a)  Proeajt Unit                                       0.630       0.050    0.032    0.032   0.032   0.032   0.032    0.032   0.044    0.032    0.032   0.032  0.032    0.032,.  0.032   0.032   0.047   0.016   0.016   0.016   0.025
b)  Other                                              1.365                          0.034   O.D49   0.052   0.045    0.071   0.102    0.085    0.101   0.166  0.112    0.100    0.11033   0.073   0.060   0.069   0.090   0.015   0.015    0.025
B)  Fllwshir-                                            0.035                                                               0.003   0.002    0.005    0.036   11.003  0.004    0.002                 0.003   0.110    1.Q02   0.003
8qb-totol 5      2.030       0.050    0.032    0.066   0.081   0.084   0.077    0.116   0.148    0.122    0.139   0.211  0.148    0.134    0.133   0.108   0.109   0.087   0.109   0.031   0.040    0.025
6.  Cootisg.acies                                              11.955      0.013    0.018    0.035   0.025   0.0Ff   0.148    0.263   0.360    0.370    0.366   0.030  0.063    0.062    0.101    0.017   0.016   0.013   0.016   0.004    0.005    0.004
Total gopepsditar-                                          9.585      0.083    0.090    0.191   0.156   0.150   0.675    1.209   1.618    1.692    1.7DS   1.231  0.341    0.336    0.524   0.125   0.125   0.100   0.125   0.035   0.045    0.029
Expe-ditures to he Fifa-ced by IDA                          7.200      0.069    0.070    0.142   0.119   0.121   0.485    0.900   1.160    1.264    1.261   0.197  0.270    0.268    0.386   0.102   0.107   0.083   0.105   0.009   0.038    0.0124
tupendittrcs to bh  fihosced by trh  Govee--ent             2.385      0.014    0.020    0.049   0.037   0.029   0.190    0.309   0.458    0.428    0.444   0.034  0.171    0.068    0.138   11.11    11 .018   0.017   0.020   1.006    .0107    0.005
The iplemesstatiaa od expeoditure shedsdl-s ar- bho-d an the following:
tffe-tive late: Epeocted by August 30d  1972 (begiaciog of qoarte I of First year)...                                                              Celctito  Dates;
a) -coha- c-n-tructing and oq.cip,icg (oxp-cted by lunch 1.1975 (sod of q-aet-r 2 of third year).
b) tehnical .s.i-ra.c.  (e.pocrod by uueecshe 30, 1977 (led of qu.st-r 1 of oixth year).
End Giareetee foe -ch-l ccnsrt-tlnd  -.  ogquippieg: Ecpccted by March 1, 1976 (eod of quartee 2 of fourth year).                                  Clsion Dete:
March 1, 1978 (eod oa qoart-c 2 of sioth year).
February 1972



LIBERIA EDUCATION PROJECT
Time Schedule for Technical Assistance  Implecentation and Estimated Cost
year      First    Second      Third      Fourth                Sixth                  Total      Estimated -ost
Implementation                       Quarter    1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3                       3 4234 t 234 1  2 3   Total    ma ars        US$ 'qO
Nanposer and Education Planning
Manpower Planning Unit
Manpower Economist (Chief of the Group)                            X X   X X X X                                                  1.5
Labho Market Specialist                                            X X   X X X X                                                  1.5
Statistician                                                       XX   X X X X                                                   1.5          15.5        157.5
Education Planning Unit
Education Planner (Chief of the Group)                               X   X XX X   X X X X   X X X                                 3
Education Statistician/Demographer                                   X   t X X X  X X X                                           2
Economist                                                                      X   X X X                                          1
School Building Specialist                                                      X   X X X                                         1            7.0         245.0
Te..hsioal  Teacher Tcaining
Technical Teacher Tradning Specialist
(Chief of the Group)                                                XXXX SX X X    X X XX   X X                             3.5
Technical Teacher Trainfng Specialist                                                X X        % X  Xx    X X                   2.5           6.o         210.0
Secondary Education
School Administrators                                                                XXX   XXXX   XXX X   X                        6
XXX  XXXX  XXXX  X                          )
Agricultural Education Specialists                                                      XX   XXXX   XX                             4
Technical Education Specialists                                                         XX   XXXX   XX
XX   XXXX   XX                           )4          1            490.0
Universitv Planning Unit
University Planner (Chief of the Group)                                      X X    X XX            X                            2
Academic Planners                                                               X   XXXX   X1.5
Finance Specialist                                                                      XX    XX                                 1
Architect                                                                     XX   XXXX   XX                                      2
Short-Term  Consultancies                                                           XXXX                                         1             7.5        262.5
Proiect Unit
Project Deputy Director                                       XX XX       XXX X   XXXX    X X X X  XX X X                         5
Project Architect                                             X X X X    X X X X   X XXX    XX XX                                 4
Project Accountant                                            X X X X    X X XX   X XXX   XX XX  X  X           XX                5
Education Equipment Procurement Specialist                    X X X X    X X X X X   X X X     X X X X                            4          18.0         630.0
_____ ___ Total Specialists          57.0      1 995.0
B.Fellowship. for Overseaa Studieo
Secondary Education
- Two Principals-Designate                                                                     X X  X X                     )2
XX  X X                                    2.0         li),D
Education Planning Unit
- Two Education Planners                                                         X XXX                                      )2 
- Two Education Statisticians                                              X N  X X                                         )2
X X  X X                                         )
- One Education Economist                                                          XXX X                                     I            5.0          25.0
-_                                         Total Fellowships          7._          35.0
February, 1972                                                                                          Total estimated cost of A and B               2.030.0






EDEoDDEED DIEDEE EDEDEEDEE ~         ~                  ~                  ~                 ~                x !
DODEADE      aTDDD         NDDEED                                                                                                            DDDT
DDDETODEIDDDA                   LIDAD          ETLD 3EDDP                      P  OTL          EDTD!6EDDD                  DODEDS         VDCEVETTDD9D                    DEDE       DTVE  DE'T
EDDEOT  ATE  EOC       DEVTED         PEELD  E-         EEOLEDEDD      EDDEDEA    TEOLDDAED         ESEELTES    EDEPEO    TEDDEDDET    DEE DDD4
11                              1~~~~~~~~~ T TEDE-         SDEED         TEEE9E               DAE            DE            DAE            E                 DE           C         DDD ID
DOEDDEDE        ES            7.4            DADA              DE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  E4      ESd             DE.               DD             A"IS                                       S              5E
DEEDED                  ES           DE.O             DADS             ED             ADS~~~ 3C      0.0            -S.                                                                                                        "I50    DD  D    E
- -.,   .11. h-                             5                                    7.~~~~ETTE  (  E.              DS              E              D  E           40.           (4050                              S             4V             C             (SDOSO
DEfdO 6EDE.SE                                   5.                  DA3O                         V              3.E~          DD4.3              EDIO                       SD                0              5            D
D.  E. 0.                  ED~~~~~~~~7  DE  0E                DA                           4 D  D        .A             01D8E                                        E                               V.                            E
DoTDOEDD.EEODDEESDV DEVE ETE VEEDOD SE   EVEEFT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5d?'N                                                                                                                       ~ 
ED EDDOD ETEEDODDESSO DE...TDED.T  DSEV.  DETTTE                                        6d            S.D              bS              ,~ .-4 .                                    S                                 4 0                           2E            ED42 
DOACEADEES  E DEE  SEEDDODIETED  'EEEDOD 0. V.D  5.                     5             1,5                DE D            . .                        D.D            O.S                CEC            ED              V            ED30                        . 
SD OlD DEDSO EDEECODDE ADDEEEODEEDDEEDTEEE(  o. DEED                    ED            E.D                SE 0~;                        0~            SA      4.3                      ED              OD           0                A            SD
(TOE SDEEE.     ODDD   AEEE   ETS                           .DSDDEE                                           DDS                                                             ,             DDA 3SD44                                                       5            00             0
EDDEEDE                      ..D.EVD   D    -SStS  ODEE     .VLEE                                             DVA               AE             S   O           E                                              43. 0 S.O50     4DA         E                0              0D                            
ODES TEE AEEEDOEDD  D EVE EDDETOD DE DO  DO- LEVEOD                     CD            1.5                DAD           ES             .5             S.D           01.)               OE              00 DIDI 12                                               SE 4 
E.TEDEOOODE( TOOL.  Do OE  DAD oD ESESE SEDE  DL  ldDTEE                          SD1          3SDD               SDE            2               I            45             ED.D               54      ~      55          ED                II           02            24 
-ST DEESO    DEDDEOD    DSOE    OD                         0  DoATD                              0           E.  E               DE             .               I            S.MS           .                 3DD             SDD          SE2C5                                       5 
D.D,.O oO      ID.  DEDDEED                          45            S.D              ISA S           DO             DS 0          0.5            ED.D               40 D           DE            D D            00 A           00             2 C              0 A~~~~~~~~~~,2  24:  .1  ~   4    11
DO. EDETTE LEDEE    ED             DOT              555              (SD            4            0.0            DOSS~117          SO3ASD                      DS                ES           25            (70
EO'CD,oADCo.D"EE  OEDEDDAoD,SDDAE0E   IDEoTEDDE             SD            ESE                DAD             S              E            ...             ESE                E             50           0                5            ED            DV4DO
COSESOED  ES0 DA.TEODED ED    _EODTdEE            ES.  iOOD                             AD           S.A A             2E              4.             20 E          3.5 V             A4 D                           DAD           A                  D          SCDODD
AT  OO-OES-                                      O.DODDE                              E             A.                 D  E          5  D            .5            S.            E.SVSS  0                                       D                   0         E  SA                             
dzi-,""I", -1-  ~      ~         ~         E.  EEEDCD                                           5.  0            E1 4            05 A4           5 I          0.0 5          AD7.S               5ED           S               ED A1            D          AS 0         1
OS"DEDADV   TOOoES.TD DEAOT D  TOO-     ED.  DDOD                              D           EDS                 OL            ES1   41 4       5             .                                0SDO          VSADII                                                     5
DD VOs   DT      D   EDDEY                 O   EEEE                                            .                 D             DlA D                         I.            15.0~              ED              3 S         TOSEI
DO  TI SDIVDOET          oD            3.L~             ~~~~           ~              ~~~~~ AV   3D  ED SD20A        .DE                S0            0            D                EE            ...           D                  
AS.  DDE,DSOEO    VESEET  ED           5    A            051            ED              DE4 3         %A.V          2D.                                4 I  5      DEA0A                          AD             DV
4) 40 EDEED. TEDDE' (DAD. SO DDE DEDEE E0  ADIVE ODDEDDOD~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~3                                                              0 
ED DESODDD Ds  OLE  EOD  DO00o~oEODDEDDEO   AT  o.  TIDETDE4E                                 DD. 7                   A         S  D           1              4.01           ES4   A45 O1                                                   AT            211VL0
OIDOTEE ODOODDO DODODDEDEDE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                                                       O           13 
Eop   h-(D lD ,ED-doS7EEDTDDTITD-.                  SEED                                                                                                                                                                                             11
TETTODEOVDE  VED EO TED  Th  SDDEVTEE       55  STE                                SD            D.j               ACE....55IOD                 ED A9i.E 4.055SEE                                                            1                             SD            ES4A
iTEE  DDTT   o -EAl  dEtD          DV. ESEESDEDE..                       71           39.1               lO              723F4                        3.6            09.0               93             30          4.2               a            36            AD              Do5S
..ED     ..E ..oE 1O D ......ET 1E DSSD  EDP                                     2:1               DOlE            73            3D             3.1.          16.0                90             5?          SE               ED             3            18              DAD
DEESOEOEIVEED  EDVELEDDEDO  DD.SEDEAEEOE   49           33.0.              AlE            00             8              3.OA          E3.O               SOD             3549A      EDO3              DODI  33                   ED5SE1
OLEO.OSODED oOETDODDDEEEVDDI'DO   "Io_E7E EDTTDS.D                                  D9           34.5                S              DS                           3.8            17.0.              SAD             .          25E              S1E            33           AD6              Ea
EOEDEDEEDEOTETEDD                                             SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  1.0    1.5           (D                                  7C         1.7              h7            DoS                            40E(
DEEDE                                                    CS-EDO         (1-EDO         (ED-DES~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ( AS-ODDS 3    (A-DES      (D-ODD         ( S-55        SE-S           (13-S38)       DO-OV           0 -h457
VDETDoODEIDDDTT                                       ED            Oh              1..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46  A20E 1.g46                    29               DA             A            001E
TEDDED                                      90             A             ~~~~          ~~~~               ~~~            ~~~          ~~ ~             ~ ~~~~~                             ~~~3.5  17O1  73  SE  I  A  DL5  13
TEEDDODAD I DEE DEDE OIET  oD 0Db  ETEDODDA       I = DAD                     E     EDODA1TIO  D                                             oODE   D. (SD), (ES13          TEOEIEETDODELE
0   OD  oDVDD-DD                                                                                    DOTDETOEEDOA
DETSDDEEEEDDDEOIE                           DDSEIE1,1                   D-DoDEEET             -
E E AESA  D-DoEEAAEEE  DTDVEAD EEDDDOEToT4~






LIBERIA
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Organization Chart, 1971
SECRETARY OF EDUCATION
UNDER SECRETARY                                                      UNDER SECRETARY                                                       UNDER SECRETARY
FOR                                                                  FOR                                                          FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMS
INSTRUCTION                                                        ADMINISTRATION                                                   & INTERNATIONAL AGENCIES
DVISION                                                              D X                 DIVISION
OF IRECORDS        OFPANN                                            F TEACHER         OFVATNL,
FAND SATISTICS          RSAC                                             TRAINING           EDCUCATION
DIVISION    _            DIViSION    l                               DIVISION              DIVISION OF                                  DiVISION OF                UNESCO
OF ELEMENTARY  _    _   OF SECONDARY                                      OF         _   _  TRANSPORTATION O                                CULTURAL                  NATIONAL
EDUCATION                EDUCATION                                    FINANCE              & PROCUREMENT                                  F ROGRAMS               COMMISSION
DIVISION
DIVISION    lVOF HIGHER                                              DIVISION                 IVISION                                     DIVISION                 DIVISION
OF             _     EDUCATION                                     OUILDING                   OF                                         F ADULT                OF SPORTS
EVALUATIDN    r    _    & TEXTBOOK                               |& GROUNDS                     RADIO                                     & LITERACY
R ESEARCH
DIVISION         NIVIIO O
DIVISIL    CURRICULUM   ll                                                      DSiO 
OF                                                                               OFATRIL
SUPERVISION                CENTERNEL
COUNTY  MONRO VIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"VII
CONSOLIDATED
IBRD - 5953(R)






-i                               SCIENCEES CE
LIBERIA                                                                                                                                                  AGRICULTURE and
7          ~~~FORESTRY    
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEMEDUUIRSSMIN
o   NATIONAL EL8MENTARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE                                                                                              LAW
NATIONAL JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
*    NATIONAL SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL CERTIFICATE                                                                                            BUSl N ESS
CERTIFICATE OF TEACHING GRADE " C "
*   DIPLOMA IN TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
m     COLLEGE / UNIVERSITY DEGREE
GDES         EXTA     M URAL 
SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL
TEACHER TRAINING
TECHNICAL EDUCATHON
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L                        N  I A  R    H  I G H 
VCTOAL CENTER
P R E - S C H   
GRADES   A         B         1       2       3       4       S       6             7       8       9             10      11      12    13        1       2        3       4       5
LEVEL   PRE ELEMENTARY                 PRIMARY EDUCATION                                         SECONDARY EDUCATION                                 HIGHER  EDUCATION
SCHOOLING    1         2         3      4       5        6       7       8             9       10      11            12      13      14    15        15      16      17       18      19
AGE    5        6         7       8       9       10      11       12           13      14      15            16      17      18      19       19     20       21      22      23
*  The Liberion edocation syster! does -ot control entrance by age.                                                                                                                   IBRD - 5854(R)






LIBERIA
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID - 1970
Enrollments in Government and Non-Government Schools
% of
Level   Grades                                                                                                                        Total*      Age Group
HIGHEER                                                                                                                               Enrollment  in School
EDUCAT I ON
16                                                           BOYS        164  30       GIRLS
15                                                                       103  28                                            1,109       0.7
14                                                                       153  37
13                                                                      418   104
SECONDARY
13                                                                       19  24
UPPER  12                                                                     0   4   35                                             16,771     12.0
10                                                               I 583           537
9                               f                                 ,836     E     636
LOWER 8                                                             2,975                   890
7                                                      3 ,4
ELEMENTARY
6  6  , | | E 0 E~~~~~~06                                                1  ,747
4                                   8 ,3409                        EE m                m   3 I123                           80,217     49.7
3                              9,627                                                            4,1908,27                              4.
2                       11,044                                                                      5262
1           13,940         7      ,8
PRE-
ELEMENTARY   B  1 6,280                                                                                                               9,383
A                                  8,36,2soL9,,99X >    e ;, 40,028                                                                    65.0
16,000          12,000           8,000           4,000              0              4,000            8,000
*Enrollments include overaged pupils.
IBRD - 5952(R)






.~ 5A 1 E                                                                                                        A iu A  A f )   )  ;   :  str< G .
J~~~~~~~1_~                                                                SEOA'V                 /It
L  0   F   A  ,,          Q                                                              COA$r
,.  L E: O- N  E -             j,'                                                                                          A Arh-t, Ccen..N _
LEONE  .-- C O U                                   \      G U I N E A/
*/                    S                  Zorzor
GRAND   CAPE                                                        Ar? Scnniqultie
- A ~~~~MOUNT                                                                                                     6 .k. Br
Tlene                                                        kk        a /  n Sua ko rgn  N    I   M    B    A           
x Co\  t  u             <  L de  B  -N G                COUNTY>                   X0;r
- --4 /\NTSE ,R DO                                   J\ 0Ut N  T Y ,
Monrovia  /Fendell 
~~<:  ~G R A N D     B A S S A                                
A t /antlc                      Marshal
O c e a n                                        JC OU N TY                  %                                   Zwedru 
-6'                                             BuchonandX                                        S      G  R A N  D            G  E D E
LIBERIA                                                    sY7\                                                                    6
LOCATION OF PROPOSED                                                                                                       N T Y
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
9\ S I N 0/  C O U N T Y\
International boundary              l                         ,
County boundary                                                                                                                 S
Road                                                                                                   7h Kntnwioke  
* TEACHER  TRAINING                                                Gree
-51                  1 1 Kakato Rural Teocher Training Institute - Demonstrotion School -KAKATA                                                   ke
1.2 Secondory Science Teoche, Training-Uniersity of Liberia-MONROVIA(Equipnent only)
13 Technical Teacher Training - MONROVIA and YEKEPA(Equipment and Technicol Assistance only        /
O     SECONDARY  EDUCATION                                                                  sstow      MARYLAND
21  Voiniama Multilateral High School -VOINJAMA                                                          COUNTY         Plibo
22  Zwedru Multilateral High School -ZWEDRU 
A UNIVERSITY EDUCATION                                                 0    o0  s0   30   40  50
3  College of Agriculture and Forestry -University of Liberia - FENDELL         sILoMETERS
FEBRUARY 19721IBR50                                                         9 
FEBRUARY i972                                                                                                                                         IBRD-3605



