"72 z
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 305 LBR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 305 LBR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 17, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1972, between THE REPUBLIC OF
LIBERIA    (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the addition of the words "and
annexes thereto" after the word "schedules" in Section 2.01. 3. thereof, to the
deletion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of
Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Project Unit" means the unit referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million two hundred
thousand dollars ($7,200,000).
(b)   (i)        The Borrower shall use its best endeavors to obtain
assistance from sources other than the Association to
finance the specialist services specified in paragraph A of
Annex 2 to Schedule 2 hereto and the fellowships
specified in paragraph B thereof.


﻿4
(ii)       In the event that the Borrower shall obtain such assistance,
the Association shall cancel $29,750 of the Credit for each
man-year of speciali,t services and $4,250 for each
man-year of fellowships for which such assistance shall
have been respectively so obtained and the amount
allocated to Technical Assistance under Category V of the
table set out in paragraph I of Schedule I hereto shall
be reduced accordingly.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods aid services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 1, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1982 and ending February 15, 2022, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992 to be one-half


﻿5
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry
of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   (i)         For the purposes of overall management and coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, the Boirower shall until
the Closing Date establish and maintain in its Ministry of
Education a Project Unit having the responsibilities and
powers specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The
Project Unit shall be composed of a Project Director,
Deputy Project Director, Project Architect, Project
Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist, each
full-time and acceptable to the Association.
(ii)        The Borrower shall cause the office of Project Architect,
Project Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist to
be filled as soon as reasonably practicable and, in any
event, by not later than December 31, 1972.
(iii)       The Borrower shall provide the Project Unit promptly as
needed with such qualified and experienced supporting
staff, facilities and other resources as shall be required for
the efficient operation thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Department of the Treasury, the
Ministries of Public Works, of Agriculture and of Planning and Economic Affairs,
the Bureau of the Budget and any other of its instrumentalities and agencies as
shall be affected by or concerned with the Project, or any part thereof, to provide
such support, cooperation or other assistance as shall be necessary or desirable
in connection with the carrying out of the Project and shall cause the Deputy


﻿6
Minister of the said Department and Ministries and the equivalent officers of the
said Bureau and other agencies and instrumentalities to be available for consultation
with the Project Director for the purpose of providing such assistance.
Section 3.02. (a) (i) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of
plans, specifications and bidding documents for the construction work included
in Part A of the Project and in the supervision of such work, the Borrower shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(ii)        The Borrower shall submit such plans and specifications,
promptly upon their preparation, to the Association for
approval.
(b)   (i)         In appointing the Project Director and in carrying out
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall appoint qualified
and experienced persons acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions (including without limitation,
as to terms of reference, timing and duration) satisfactory
to the Association.
(ii)        The Borrower shall, subject to sub-section (c) hereof,
assign to each of the specialists referred to in paragraph A
of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 of this Agreement one suitably
qualified person to serve as his full-time counterpart until
the Closing Date or such earlier date as the Borrower and
the Association shall agree. Each of the counterparts to
the specialists referred to in sub-paragraphs (1) through
(5) of paragraph A shall be assigned not later than the
date upon which the specialist to whom such assignment
is made commences performance of his duties hereunder.
(c)   Not later than June 30, 1974 the Borrower and the Association shall
consult together to review the performance by the officers and counterpart staff
comprising the Project Unit in the carrying out of their functions hereunder. If
the Borrower and the Association shall, in the light of such review, so agree, the
Borrower shall be entitled to: (i) replace the Deputy Project Director, Project
Architect, Project Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist, respectively, by
the counterpart assigned to such officer in accordance with sub-section (b) (ii)
of this Section; and (ii) appoint as Adviser to the Deputy Project Director, Project
Architect, Project Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist, respectively, the
person so replaced.


﻿7
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents, construction and
procurement schedules and work schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire not later than August 31, 1972 all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the College of Agriculture and
Forestry, University of Liberia, Fendell, included in Part A of the Project (the
College) to be located immediately adjacent to the existing university farm at
Fendell and shall prepare plans and specifications for the College accordingly.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall endeavor to utilize the educational
institutions included in the Project at their designed capacity and shall operate
the same so as to promote the educational objectives of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the effective utilization, operation,
maintenance and repair of the educational institutions included in the Project and
the equipment thereat and (save as provided for under the Credit) the staffing
and equipping thereof and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association two three-year technical teacher training courses
for eighteen suitably qualified trainees each, commencing not later than
February 28, 1973 and February 28, 1974, respectively, for teachers at the
Multilateral Schools and at certain otlr institutions of the Borrower.
(b)   In particular, not later than February 28, 1973 the Borrower shall:
(i)         provide for the use by first year trainees of the facilities of the
Vocational Training Center at Yekepa included in Part A of the
Project;
(ii)        make arrangements for the provision of industrial in-service
training to second year trainees;
(iii)       make arrangements for the provision of teaching facilities for
third year trainees at the William V. S. Tubman High School
included in Part A of this Project; and
(iv)        establish and make provision for the financing of three-year
scholarships for not less than 36 trainees, covering the full cost
of their tuition, accommodation and transportation.


﻿9
in each case on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   Not later   than  February 28, 1976, the Borrower shall make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the continuance of the technical
teacher training courses, if appropriate, or for the alternative use of the equipment
at the said Vocational Training Center and William V. S. Tubman High School
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall not later than February 28, 1973
formulate and put into effect a curriculum satisfactory to the Association for the
Voinjama Multilateral High School and the Zwedru Multilateral High School
included in Part A of the Project (the Multilateral Schools).
(b)   (i)        The Borrower shall cause each of the technical teachers
required for the Multilateral Schools to be designated not
later than February 28, 1973 and to be assigned to one
of the teacher training courses to be established in
accordance with Section 4.04 (a) hereof.
(ii)        The Borrower shall cause each of the non-technical
teachers required for the Multilateral Schools to be
designated not later than July 31, 1974 and shall ensure
their training to an appropriate level of qualification
before the taking up of their positions at the Multilateral
Schools.
(c)   As from the commencement of the first school year respectively of
the said Voinjama Multilateral High School and Zwedru Multilateral High School
until the Closing Date the Borrower shall not operate in the areas respectively
served thereby any other educational institution at the high school level.
Section 4.06. (a) Not later than December 31, 1972 (or such later date as
the Association shall agree) the Borrower, in consultation with the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), shall appoint to the position
of Dean of the College a person of suitable qualifications and experience. In
addition, not later than the commencement of the first school year following
completion of construction of the College, the Borrower shall establish the positions
of Associate Dean (Agriculture) and of Associate Dean (Forestry) and shall appoint
thereto persons of suitable qualifications and experience.
(b)   The Borrower, in conjunction with the University of Liberia, shall
formulate a program for the revision of the curricula of the College on the basis


﻿10
of the educational objectives of the Borrower. The Borrower shall initiate such
program not later than December 31, 1972 and shall, in conjunction with the
University of Liberia, review such program and the progress achieved in its
implementation with the United Nations Development Programme and FAO
(UNDP-FAO) and the Association on or before the commencement of each
subsequent school year of the College until the Closing Date.
(c)   The Borrower shall use its best endeavors to secure the extension by
UNDP-FAO of technical assistance programs to the Borrower for the College in
respect of the three years following completion of the construction, furnishing
and   equipping  of  the  College  or, if   earlier, the  three  years ending
December 31, 1978, on such basis as UNDP-FAO, in consultation with the
Borrower and the Association, shall from time to time recommend in the light
of the requirements of the College.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association,
establish and from time to time review an incremental salary structure at suitable
levels of remuneration for all teaching staff engaged by it by reference to the
requirements of the position and to the qualifications and experience of the member
of such staff. The said salary structure shall be introduced in the case of staff
at the Multilateral Schools and at the College from the commencement of the
first school year following the respective completion of construction thereof and
in all other cases progressively so as to be fully in effect by not later than
January 1, 1976.
Section 4.08. In order to enable the Borrower and the Association to evaluate
the results of the Project, the Borrower shall not later than February 28, 1975
establish a system to record all relevant information concerning (a) the educational
achievement, including advanced studies, if any, (together with information
concerning premature termination or repetition of any stage of education) and
(b) the subsequent employment of a representative sample of the students trained
at the institutions included in the Project and at such other educational institutions
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Ass. 'iation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the


﻿[                                     11
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment related to the Project and any relevant
records and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Project Unit has been established;
(b)   the position in the Project Unit of Project Director and Deputy Project
Director shall have been filled in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement; and
(c)   the counterpart staff to the Deputy Project Director, to the Project
Architect, to the Project Accountant and to the Project Procurement Specialist
shall have been appointed in accordance with Section 3.02 (b) (ii) hereof.
Section 8.02. The date September 18, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purpose of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.08
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Education of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Education
Ministry of Education
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:
Ministry of Education
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By /s / Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                   3,000,000          70% of total
expenditures
II.  Consultants'                   300,000           70% of total
Services                                         expenditures
1II.  Furniture                      180,000          70% of total
expenditures
IV.  Equipment and                  570,000           100% of the c.i.f.
Books                                            price of imported
goods or 100% of
the ex-factory
price of locally
produced goods
V.    *Technical                   1,725,500          100% of foreign
Assistance                                       expenditures
VI.  Unallocated                   1,424,500
TOTAL              7,200,000
*    Subject to Section 2.01 (b) hereof.


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories II and V on account of
expenditures incurred after February 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manafacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   purchases of equipment pursuant to any contract of a value of less
than $5,000 equivalent.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿17
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a.corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, II,
III or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.
(1)   The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   two new multilateral high schools
(b)   one new college of agriculture and forestry
(c)   one new demonstration school
(2)   The conversion and/or extension and the supplementary furnishing and
equipping of one elementary teacher training institute.
(3)   The supplementary equipping of:
(a)   one secondary science teacher training college to implement a
science teacher training program for junior and high school
teachers;
(b)   a vocational training center and a high school to implement a
technical teacher training program for teachers for the institutes
referred to in Part A (1) (a) of the Project and for technical
education teachers.
Part B:
The provision of a total of 57 man-years of technical assistance and 7
man-years of fellowships.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
educational institutions included in Part A of the Project and the location,
construction area, additional student places and additional accommodation shall
be as specified in Annex 1 to this Schedule and the technical assistance and
fellowships included in Part B of the Project shall be as specified in Annex 2
to this Schedule.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by March 1, 1975 and
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 1977.


﻿19
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
List of the Educational Institutions
Reference                         Approximate
under                              Gross Area                   Accommodation
Part A                            of Construc-      Additional    Additional      Staff
of the                            tion (square       Student       Student      Housing
Project         Location              feet)           Places       Boarding       Units
(1)  (a)   Voinjama Multilat-        65,690            600           150           10
eral High School,
Voinjama
and
Zwedru Multilat-           65,690           600           150           10
eral High School,
Zwedru
(b)  College of Agri-           74,810           200           200           30
culture and For-
estry, University
of Liberia, Fendell
(c)  Demonstration School,      15,320           240             0            2
Kakata Rural Teacher
Training Institute,
Kakata
(2)        Kakata Rural Teacher       58,680           175           160           14
Training Institute,
Kakata
(3)  (a)   William V.S. Tubman
Teacher College, Uni-
versity of Liberia,
Monrovia
(b)  Vocational Training
Center, Yekepa
and
William V.S. Tubman
High School, Monrovia


﻿20
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
A.    Specialist Services
(1)   Manpower Planning
4.5 man-years for three specialists to carry out manpower planning as a unit
within the Manpower Planning Commission of the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs.
(2)   Educational Planning
7 man-years for four specialists to carry out educational planning as a unit
within the Bureau of Planning and Research of the Ministry of Education in
coordination with the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.
(3)   University Planning
7.5 man-years for approximately nine specialists to plan university
development as a unit in coordination with the University Development Committee
of the University of Liberia.
(4)   Technical Teacher Training
6 man-years for two specialists to establish and implement a technical teacher
training program, principally at the William V.S Tubman High School included
in Part A of the Project.
(5)   Secondary Education
14 man-years for six specialists to establish and implement a secondary
education program at the Voinjama Multilateral High School and the Zwedru
Multilateral High School included in Part A of the Project and to train counterparts.
(6)   Project Management
18 man-years for four specialists to act as Deputy Project Director, Project
Architect, Project Accountant and Project Procurement Specialist (and to train
counterparts) in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the Development Credit
Agreement or to act as respective Advisers to such officers in accordance with
Section 3.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿21
B.    Fellowships
(1)   Educational Planning
5 man-years for five fellowships for the counterpart staff to the specialists
referred to in paragraph A.(2) of this Annex.
(2)   Secondary Education
2 man-years for two fellowships for the principals designate respectively of
the Voinjama Multilateral High School and the Zwedru Multilateral High School
included in Part A of the Project. to be selected from the counterpart staff to
the specialists referred to in paragraph A.(5) of this Annex.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors will be prequalified in accordance with a prequalification
procedure satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for
its approval the following:
(a)   a list of all contracts for civil works to be awarded in carrying
out the Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract
and the forecast timetable for obtaining it. The contracts will
be grouped in such a way as to encourage international
competitive bidding;
(b)   a description of the proposed advertising coverage to ensure
international   competitive    bidding,   draft   bid   notices,
prequalification   questionnaires   and    a   description   of
prequalification procedures;
(c)   the   consultant's   report   and   recommendation     on    the
prequalification data submitted and the proposed selected tender
list;
(d)   draft   bidding  documents    including  draft  contracts. The
invitations to bid for the educational institutions included in
the Project will, inter alia, specify that the bidder will submit
offers in respect of each institution together with related
facilities, or of all of them, or any combination thereof. The
bids shall be opened simultaneously. The Borrower shall have
the option of awarding to one contractor one contract in respect
of all the educational institutions and facilities, or separate
contracts or a combination of contracts in respect of the various
educational institutions and facilities. The Borrower shall make
such additions or deletions in such proposed tender list and such
modifications in such draft bidding documents and draft
contracts as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿23
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award, and will furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report by the Borrower's consultants on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations of said consultants for
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.    Promptly after a contract ha- been awarded, and before submission
to the Association of the"first application for withdrawal of funds in respect thereof,
two certified conformed copies of the contract will be sent to the Association.
Two certified conformed copies of any subsequent contract amendment will also
be sent to the Association.
5.    The Borrower will request the Association's concurrence with any
proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the
contract price or of $25,000 or more equivalent, whichever is less, together with
an explanation of the proposed change.
6.    In the event that the estimate as agreed between the Borrower and
the Association of the total costs of civil works required for any of the Project
institutions and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be less
than the sum of $50,000, procurement of such civil works on the basis of
international competition shall not be required but, subject thereto, the provisions
of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be applicable in all
respects to all contracts for such civil works.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    The items to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
Insofar as practicable, contracts for such groups will be for not less than $40,000
equivalent.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for
its approval the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the
Project and the proposed grouping thereof, showing the
specifications and the estimated unit price of each item and the
total price of each category of items. Items will be indexed,


﻿24
coded and numbered for identification with the educational
institution in question and the space for which they are required.
Amendments to such lists will also be submitted to the
Association for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts
and a description of the method to be used for inviting bids
on an international basis, including the proposed advertising
procedures.
3.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in sub-paragraph B. 2. (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
such lists.
4.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured equipment and furniture, for the purposes of comparison, the
following method will be used:
(a)   The term "Local Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined
by the Association) in the territories of the Borrower; any bid
offering other goods shall be deemed a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum
of the following amounts:
(i)   the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)  inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local
Bid the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods
if imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount
specified in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower;
and


﻿25
(iii)       inland freight and insurance, and other costs of
delivery of such goods to the place of their use or
installation.
5.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been so compared; or (b) a contract
is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated bidder
(taking into account, if applicable the foregoing paragraph B. 4.); or (c) a proposed
award involves a difference in price of 10% or more from the original estimate
as shown pursuant to paragraph B. 2. (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids
have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the Association for
its prompt approval, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of
the Borrower's proposal for the award.
6.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been
awarded and before submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, the
following will be sent to the Association (if not already furnished under
paragraph B. 5. above):
(a)   a certificate signed by the Project Director or his deputy that
the goods covered by the contract are in accordance with the
quantities and specifications in the list approved by     the
Association;
(b)   a list of the bids received;
(c)   a brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's
decision in making the award; and
(d)   two certified conformed copies of the contract.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
7.    Two certified conformed copies of any subsequent amendment to any
contract referred to in paragraph B. 6. (d) hereof will also be sent promptly to
the Association.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    A Project Unit will be established within the Ministry of Education of the
Borrower under a full-time Project Director responsible to the Minister of
Education.
2.    The Project Unit will include, on a full-time basis, specialists to serve as:
(a) Project Director to act as chief of the group of specialists contracted under
the technical assistance provided by the Project, (b) the Deputy Project Director,
(c) Project Architect, (d) Project Accountant and (e) Project Procurement Specialist.
In addition the Project Unit will be staffed with appropriate clerical personnel.
3.    The Project Unit shall have the necessary powers for the execution of the
Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the coordination of the Project referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architectural
consultants and contractors provided for in Sections 3.02 and 3.03
of the Development Credit Agrcement;
(c)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture, equipment and books
required for Part A of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment and books
including the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids
and the making of recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the regular inspection of all construction work and acceptance of the
consultants' certification of completion of works;
(g)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the
Association;
(h)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the specialists
provided under Part B of the Project; and


﻿27
(i)   the selection, arrangement and supervision of the fellowships provided
under Part B of the Project.
4.    The functions of the Project Director, the Deputy Project Director, the
Project Architect, the Project Accountant and the Project Procurement Specialist
shall be as follows:
(a)   The Project Director
The Project Director shall be responsible for directing all aspects of
the execution of the Project. He shall report directly to the Secretary
of Education. He shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)          the administration of agreements with the architectural
consultants in accordance with their terms of reference;
(ii)         making    the   necessary   arrangements    for   briefing
architectural  consultants  and    other  architects  and
engineers of the agencies of the Borrower;
(iii)        reviewing and approving or arranging for the review and
approval by the appropriate authorities of all reports,
plans, specifications and other material related to the
Project;
(iv)         making all necessary arrangements for calling bids and
awarding all contracts relating to the Project;
(v)          the coordination and integration of all Project activities
with the relevant departments, authorities and agencies
and with the Association;
(vi)         the organization and administration in consultation with
the appropriate authorities of the technical assistance
program included in the Project;
(vii)       the selection and organization of the staff of the Project
Unit and the supervision and direction of their
performance of their respective duties;
(viii)       preparing  quarterly  project progress reports for the
Borrower and the Association;


﻿28
(ix)         preparing educational specifications for the facilities to be
constructed;
(x)          assisting the Project Architect in the preparation of
architects' briefs;
(xi)         acting as adviser to    the executive architects on all
educational matters to ensure that the brief is fully
understood;
(xii)        reviewing the architectural drawings to see that space
provisions and educational specifications are correctly
interpreted;
(xiii)       organizing specialist teachers to prepare basic equipment
and furniture lists and reviewing furniture designs for the
Project institutions;
(xiv)        coordinating the technical assistance personnel provided
under Part B of the Project for special aspects of education
pertaining to the Project;
(xv)         taking all steps required to ensure that teachers will be
available when the Project institutions are ready for use;
(xvi)        coordinating  and   integrating  all Project educational
activities with other related activities of the Ministry of
Education; and
(xvii)       ensuring that all instructional equipment meets required
specifications and is properly installed.
(b)   The Deputy Project Director
The Deputy Project Director shall assist the Project Director in the
carrying out of his duties as specified in paragraph (a) hereof.
(c)    The Project Architect
Under the general direction of the Project Director, and in coordination
with the architectural consultants, the Project Architect shall, inter
alia:


﻿29
(i)          assemble all information relating to site and site conditions
of the Project institutions;
(ii)         prepare a comprehensive implementation schedule based
on the Critical Path Method, Gantt Chart or other
satisfactory method, for setting down the planned
timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on
which the carrying out of all aspects of the Project will
be based;
(iii)        prepare  the   architects'  briefs,  relating  educational
specifications to realistic costing and functional design;
(iv)         act  as  technical  and   architectural adviser   to  the
architectural consultants to ensure that the brief is fully
understood and that the Project is carried out in
accordance with the brief:
(v)          check the architectural drawings to see that the space
provisions and educational specifications are interpreted
correctly so as to minimize changes during construction
and after tenders have been accepted and approved;
(vi)         ensure that the architectural consultants and contractors
are meeting performance standards as reflected in the
specifications;
(vii)        take all steps required to ensure that the furniture is
designed and constructed to specifications;
(viii)       ensure that furniture and building materials are procured
in time and available for use on schedule;
(ix)         process and expedite all certificates of payments from
contractors submitted through the executive architects;
and
(x)         visit the works and inspect progress.
(d)   The Project Accountant
The Project Accountant shall be responsible to the Project Director
for setting up of the accounting machinery and the technical and


﻿30
operational aspects   of   accounting  control relating   to   Project
implementation in terms of the Development Credit Agreement. He
shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)         ensuring that funds are available in the relevant accounts
as required to meet payments to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
(ii)        conducting   the   overall supervision, maintenance and
verification of any special bank account which may be
set up for the Project;
(iii)       taking   promptly    all  actions  required   under   the
Development Credit Agreement in order to expedite the
disbursement of the amounts of the Credit, including the
preparation of withdrawal applications;
(iv)        ensuring that a detailed account is maintained in respect
of each contract for the procurement of goods or services
for the Project;
(v)         preparing such interim evaluation and financial statements
as are required under the Development Credit Agreement;
(vi)        arranging for the establishment of letters of credits, if any;
(vii)       ensuring that financial regulations are complied with by
the staff working under his control;
(viii)      signing or countersigning of checks; and
(ix)        such   other duties as may be assigned by the Project
Director.
(e)   The Project Procurement Specialist
Under the general direction of the Project Director, the Project
Procurement Specialist shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
(i)         the procurement of all furniture, equipment and books,
furniture and materials for the Project institutions;


﻿31
(ii)       the itemization and listing of all goods required for the
Project showing the specifications and the estimated unit
and total costs of each item, and the arrangement for the
index   coding  and   numbering   of  each  item   for
identification with each of the Project institutions and
with the space for which they are required;
(iii)       the grouping of goods to be procured so as to permit bulk
procurement   consistent  with  sound   technical and
procurement practices;
(iv)        the drafting of standard documents for inviting bids and
the implementation of bidding procedures in accordance
with Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(v)         the evaluation of bids received for all goods;
(vi)        the inspection of goods to ensure that correct quantities
are received to the correct specifications; and
(vii)      the arrangement of safe custody and delivery of the goods
to designated sites in accordance with target dates laid
down.


