Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/16/2008 
Report No.:  AC3760
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Vietnam 
Project ID:  P110525 
Project Name:  Multi-Donor Trust Fund to Support Public Financial Modernization in 
Vietnam 
Task Team Leader:  Quyen Hoang Vu 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 2, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: April 1, 2009 
Managing Unit:  EASPV 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (57%);Public administration- Industry and 
trade (29%);Public administration- Finance (14%) 
Theme:  Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (45%);Tax policy 
and administration (30%);Corporate governance (15%);Other public sector governance 
(5%);Debt management and fiscal sustainability (5%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.38 
 
Free-standing Single Purpose Trust Fund 
7.00
7.38 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objectives (PDOs) of this MDTF on public financial 
management are for the Bank and contributing donors to support the client to develop 
capacities towards strengthened public finance management system through a) 
developing robust and efficient systems for raising and deploying resources, b) improving 
quality and effectiveness of expenditures in achieving government’s social and economic 
policies, c) supporting the introduction of market orientation for public finance 
management, and d) promoting transparency and accountability at all levels in the 
management of public finances. The PDOs are complementary to three higher level 
objectives of the country’s four key reform pillars, namely improved business 
environment, social inclusion and governance. These will also support the achievement 
of the country’s Socio-Economic Development Plan goal of becoming a middle income 
country in 2010 with strengthened public governance.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
The MDTF is designed to be a four-year programmatic technical assistance project 
executed by the government.  The project will be administered by the World Bank and 
financed by a pool of funds contributed by six donors (Australia, Canada, Denmark, EC, 
UK and the Netherlands) and the government counterpart funding, with the estimated 
total funding of US$ 7.9 million. It is expected that these donors may provide additional 
funding to the project following the mid-term review and other donors may join the 
MDTF at a latter stage.  
 
The MDTF aims at supporting PFM reform agenda in inter alia the seven key themes of 
the Single Strategy Document of the Ministry of Finance, namely State budget 
expenditure management, State budget revenue management, Public debt management, 
Financial market supervision and bond market development, Corporate finance 
management, Public assets management, and Price control. The fund will mainly finance 
technical assistance and capacity building activities, and analytical and diagnostic work. 
It will consist three types of expenditures i) consultants’ services, ii) in-country and 
overseas training, workshops, study tours and surveys; and iii) incremental operating 
costs.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project is to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance located in Hanoi. There are no 
physical characteristics of the project location that are relevant to the safeguard analysis.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Douglas J. Graham (EASVS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
N/A   
 
Page  3
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
N/A   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Minh Van Nguyen 
06/20/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Douglas J. Graham 
06/20/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Barbara Nunberg 
07/02/2008 
Comments:   
