 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14678

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 06/22/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P110525                                                Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Multi-Donor Trust           Project Costs (US$M):                    7.55                5.86
                         Fund to Support
                         Public Financial
                         Modernization in
                         Vietnam
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     7.55                5.86
      Sector Board:      Public Sector              Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
           Cofinanciers: European                    Board Approval Date :                                04/01/2009
                         Commission, Danish                  Closing Date:           06/30/2011           12/31/2013
                         Development Agency,
                         Australian Agency for
                         International
                         Development,
                         Canadian International
                         Development Agency ,
                         Switzerland State
                         Secretariat for
                         Economic Affairs ,
                         Government of
                         Netherlands
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (57%); Public administration- Industry and trade (29%);
                         Public administration- Financial Sector (14%)
          Theme(s):      Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (45% - P); Tax policy and
                         administration (30% - P); Corporate governance (15%); Other public sector governance
                         (5%); Debt management and fiscal sustainability (5%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Moritz Piatti             Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The original Project Development Objective (PDO), per the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. viii) and Grant
Agreement (Annex, Article II), was to support the recipient to develop capacities to strengthen its public finance
management (PFM) system through: (a) developing robust and efficient systems for raising and deploying resources;
(b) improving the quality and effectiveness of public expenditures in achieving the Recipient’s social and economic
policies; (c) supporting the introduction of market orientation in public finance management; and (d) promoting
transparency and accountability at all levels in the management of public finances.

The revised PDO, per the Trust Fund Amendment Agreement (June 25, 2012), was to support Vietnam to strengthen
its capacities for: (a) increased coordination and transparency in public finance management; (b) improved revenue
mobilization; and (c) effective and efficient public expenditure management.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

The project was designed as a pool of flexible funding made available to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to support
technical assistance and analytical work in its public finance management reform program.

Per the Grant Agreement (pp. 3-4) and PAD (pp. 9-10), the project has two parts:

Part I: Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity in the implementation of selected reforms and managing technical
assistance programs.

Part II: Conducting analytical and diagnostic work in the seven key areas as specified in the government's Single
Strategy Document (SSD), which included:

1.       Budget management: strengthening the institutional framework, capacity building, and developing the
Treasury and Budget Management Information System (TABMIS), as well as developing a medium and long term
public expenditure framework to meet the requirements of public financial management.

2.        Budget revenue management (taxation and customs): strengthening the tax administration system and
customs modernization to meet the requirements of economic growth and intensive international economic
integration.

3.    Debt management: strengthening the system for recording domestic and external debt, and developing debt
management and risk management systems.

4.      Financial market supervision and bond market development: establishment of a financial service supervision
agency (Financial Supervision Agency, FSA) and a road map for bond issuance and development of a bond market.

5.       Corporate finance management: strengthening financial management capacity and mechanisms in the
Government’s business activities to speed up the equitization process and increase the efficient use of capital by state
enterprises.

6.      Public assets management: strengthening the legal framework, strengthening the capacity of officials in
charge of managing public assets, developing a better system of monitoring public assets, and enhancing the
examination and inspection of management and utilization of public assets.

7.       Price control: developing and improving legal systems for price control, and developing a professional price
valuation system under the socialism-oriented market economy in Vietnam.


At restructuring, project activities were revised, though no real components were identified. According to the Project
Paper “the Project will continue to address important PFM challenges identified in the Project Appraisal Document
and through ongoing policy dialogue” A list of activities was provided of what the project would finance including :

(i)       To help prioritize the next phase of PFM reforms, the Project is supporting the Government to complete its
first Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) self-assessment. The Project will also support the
development of an Action Plan for its upcoming Financial Development Strategy (2011-2020), the successor of the
SSD.

(ii)      To enable better oversight of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), the Project will strengthen capacity in the
Ministry of Finance to monitor the financial performance of SOEs. This is a high priority area particularly in light of
growing challenges to macroeconomic management.

(iii)   To increase efficiency of government expenditure management, the Project is supporting the development of
a modern cash and risk management system. This should improve coordination with debt management functions,
and promote more efficient debt financing.

(iv)      To improve the efficiency and transparency of tax policy, the Project is helping to review the implementation
of eight tax policy measures, and assess their impact. This should help to inform tax legislation development and
administration reform.”



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project Cost
    Project cost at appraisal was US$ 5.12 million and t slightly below actual project cost of US$ 5.38 million.
    Additional financing increased total funding significantly to US$ 7.55 million, including counterpart financing.
    Actual project costs were significantly lower than total funding estimates due to slow progress in implementation.

    Project Financing
    The Public Financial Management Modernization Project was financed by a World Bank-executed Multi-Donor
    Trust Fund (MDTF) of US$ 7.19 million, US$ 5.38 million of which was disbursed. Additional financing was
    provided by Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) with a contribution of CHF 2.0 million
    (equivalent of about US$ 1.85 million).

    The MDTF was funded by the European Commission, the Danish Development Agency, the Australian Agency
    for International Development, the Canadian International Development Agency, the Switzerland State
    Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), and the Government of the Netherlands. Among development partners,
    Canada, the European Commission, the Netherlands, and Switzerland had undisbursed commitments. The
    Netherlands did not extend its support beyond the Mid-Term Review.

    Borrower Contribution
    The borrower contributed US$ 0.28 million against US$ 0.37 million planned at appraisal. The shortfall was
    largely attributable to slow implementation progress.

    Dates
    Project approval was on January 04, 2009, effectiveness on September 7, 2009, and Mid-Term Review on
    August 23, 2011. The MDTF closed on December 31, 2013, two and a half years after the original closing date of
    June 30, 2011.

    The project was restructured twice. The first restructuring was on January 6, 2011, incorporating additional
    financing as a result of SECO joining the MDTF, and an extension of the closing date to June 30, 2012. The
    project was restructured a second time on June 25, 2012 to further extend the closing date to December 31, 2013
    and to revise the PDO. Project extensions were due to slow progress in implementation and disbursements.

    Project documentation includes three versions of the Project Appraisal Document, dated October 24, 2008,
    March 12, 2009, and December 30, 2010. The last PAD is dated almost 15 months after project effectiveness.
    Most notable is that the PDO was changed from the 2009 version to the 2010 version of the PAD to align with the
    Grant Agreement. No reasons were provided for multiple versions of project documents.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

    Substantial under both the original and revised objectives.

    Strengthening the Public Financial Management (PFM) capacity of the Government in Vietnam was substantially
    relevant at project design, restructuring, and closure. Public financial management was central to the
    Government's Administration Reform Master Program for the period 2001-2010, endorsed by the Prime Minister
    in September 2001. In 2004 the Prime Minister approved Decision 211 to guide the country's PFM development,
    focusing on the broad strategic areas of resource mobilization, budget management (preparation and execution),
    debt management, and public administration reform. Modernizing the country’s public finance management
    system continued to be a high priority for the Government in its Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010.
    To operationalize these umbrella plans, the Minister of Finance approved a Single Strategy Document (SSD) in
    2007 that outlined seven key reform areas. The seven sub-components of this project were directly mapped to
    these reform areas.

    PFM has also been a consistent and central priority of Bank assistance throughout the past dozen years, and
    was a policy area under two Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) series. The project’s development
   objectives were fully consistent with the Bank's 2002 Country Assistance Strategy, where “improving information,
   transparency and public financial management” was the first area under Theme 3, and remain substantially
   relevant under the current (2012-2016) Country Partnership Strategy, where Annex 16 is devoted to PFM in
   Vietnam. Moreover, the Bank assisted and plans to continue to support the country with both analytical and
   advisory (AAA) services and with operations in complementary areas of reform, notably the modernization of
   revenue collection, the reform of public expenditure management and oversight, and reforms to various public
   investment and budget laws.

   The objectives were also substantially relevant to country conditions. There was continued and substantial
   off-budget financing threatening fiscal sustainability, an imbalance in the composition of public expenditures, the
   absence of a credible multi-year fiscal framework, shortcomings in the financial management information system,
   and significant weaknesses in revenue administration and mobilization.

   However, the original objectives were broad and ambitious given country context and capacity. The revised
   objectives were streamlined but remained overly ambitious.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest under both the original and revised objectives.

   The grant was designed as a pool of flexible funding made available to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to support
   public finance management reform in the seven key themes of the umbrella SSD. While the need for flexible
   funding is acknowledged, this leaves ambiguity regarding how the project intended to achieve its objectives. The
   PAD description of the “components” is a list of issue areas to be covered, rather than a concrete set of planned
   activities. The PAD explained that specific activities were to be identified under annual planning processes. The
   project description (PAD, pp. 46-61) combined goals with planned activities without a real distinction between the
   two. Lastly, the design was overly ambitious with little prioritization and sequence planning. In addition, there
   were considerable weaknesses in the results framework and the chain of logic linking PDOs to intermediate
   outcomes and activities.

   Project design improved modestly during restructuring. The PDOs became more specific and clear. The
   anticipated intermediate outcomes / goals were closely related to the revised objectives. In particular, a clearer
   reform strategy, greater disclosure, and improved oversight capacity could plausibly lead to increased
   coordination and transparency in public finance management. Similarly, reforming customs administration and
   reforming accounting standards are likely to contribute to improved budget revenue and expenditure
   management, respectively. However, the modality of how these outcomes or goals would be achieved through
   specific components or activities remained ambiguous. Further, the results chain remained weak.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Original Objective (US$ 2.48 million, or 46 percent of total expenditure )
   Following the Grant Agreement, this review assesses achievement of the following objective: Develop capacities
   to strengthen the recipient 's public finance management system : Modest

   As an operation providing technical assistance and analytical work, achievement of this objectives is assessed
   against building capacity rather than actual improvements in PFM systems. While considerable outputs were
   produced under the original objective, little information is provided against the results framework as per indicators
   in the PAD (pp. 39-41). This makes it difficult to hold the operation accountable to its original intent. Thus,
   achievement the objective prior to restructuring is rated Modest.

   The ICR (p. 3) and the PAD (p. 38) refer to seven intermediate outcomes:

   1. Better budget estimation with a medium term vision and a focus on outcomes, and improved effectiveness of
   resource allocation and utilization.
   2. Consistent and equitable system of tax policies, enhanced tax management and inspection capacities;
   transparent customs legal system, unified clearance system and professional staff.
   3. Public debt including borrowings of SOEs adequately managed, contributing to fiscal sustainability and the
   safety of national finance.
   4. Financial market, especially bond market, developed and supervised in a stable manner to provide the best
financial resource for the economy.
5. SOEs restructured with synchronized mechanisms for their corporate and financing management in line with
international practices and eliminated
privileged treatment in line with WTO commitments.
6. Public assets and land in particular managed and utilized in a better integrated, effective and accountable
manner to improve public services delivery and benefit all economic sectors.
7. Pricing controlled and regulated basing on market mechanism, with monopoly pricing or dual pricing
abolished as much as possible.


However, the ICR does not report on progress against these. Instead, the ICR lists outputs achieved over the life
cycle of the project (ICR pp. 26-35):

Outputs on budget expenditure reform

   The MOF completed and disseminated a Pilot Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
Assessment.
 The State Treasury completed development of a model, roadmap, and solutions to implement the State
Accountant General (SAG) function.
 The MOF issued a Circular on management of cash revenue and expenditure through the State Treasury
system.
 The Government completed the development of an Implementation Roadmap for the application of Public
Sector Accounting Standards in Vietnam.
 At project closure, 13 of 26 corporate accounting standards had been reviewed, of which eight had been
submitted for issuance by the MOF, and five were under final review.

Outputs on budget revenue management

    The project provided support to the MOF to develop legal documents to guide the implementation of the Law
on Amendment and Supplementation of a Number of Articles of the Law on Tax Administration.
 The project supported the MOF for the implementation of the tax policy system reform strategy 2020. Based
on tax drafts and various reviews, the national assembly adopted a law on amendment and supplementation of a
number of articles of the law on value added tax, personal income tax, and corporate tax, as well as a revised law
on land, and a resolution regarding promulgation of new tax rates on natural resources. The Government also
issued a decree regarding implementation of a number of articles of the tax law on environmental protection.

Outputs on government debt management reform

   The project provided guidance on monitoring indicators for public and foreign debt.
   Public Debt Bulletins have been issued twice a year to include information on domestic debt.
   The project helped to finance an international conference on debt management, which provided inputs for the
development of a Prime Ministerial Decision granting approval to the National Public and Foreign Debt
Management Strategy 2011-2020 to strengthen the institutional framework for debt management and establish
prudent fiscal targets and thresholds for medium-term sustainability.

Outputs on public asset management

    The project supported the development and promulgation of the Prime Minister’s Decree regarding
management, utilization and exploitation of roadway transport infrastructure assets, and supported the provision
of regulations and guidelines for their implementation.
 The project supported the development of the State asset data review and standardization procedures,
which were approved by the MOF.
 The project supported an evaluation of the centralized purchase of public assets. Recommendations
regarding the content, direction, and legal framework of the centralized purchase of public assets were made.

Outputs on price control management
 The project financed a draft roadmap for development of a price valuation system.
 The project financed a specialized document on valuation consisting of six themes covering basic and
necessary contents for training and capacity strengthening of valuation.
 The ICR states that the project created a foundation for the Government to develop strategies and action
plans to modernize valuation capacities. In addition, it helped the team of MOF officials responsible for price
management policy making to have access to advanced valuation methods based on market rules to meet the
requirements of reform of price management and valuation in Vietnam.

Outputs on State Owned Enterprise (SOE) financial management
 Indicators for oversight of SOEs were developed and piloted at Vietnam Railway, the State Capital
Investment Corporation, and the Vietnam National Chemical Group.
 Legal documents regarding oversight and management of corporate finance were issued. These were
decrees regarding the promulgation of regulation on financial supervision, financial performance evaluation, and
disclosure of financial information of enterprises owned by the State and of enterprises with State capital. A
circular to guide the implementation thereof was issued.

Outcomes:
The ICR would have benefited from specifying how these outputs related to the capacity built, whether this
capacity was retained, and whether and how this capacity contributed to improved public financial management.



Revised Objectives (US$ 2.9 million, or 54 percent of total expenditure )
The revised objectives targeted improved capacity across a number of PFM dimensions.

Objective 1: Strengthen the capacity for increased coordination and transparency in public finance
management : Modest

Outputs

    The Government completed a PEFA Assessment and disseminated it through a workshop in July 2013.
    A prioritized medium-term action plan for financial development strategy 2011- 2020 was approved in
January 2013, and a medium term action plan for 2014-2016 was developed and approved by the MOF in
February 2014.
 The MOF developed regulations on disclosure of information on public and publicly guaranteed debt. In
particular, the MOF issued a circular guiding the methodology and criteria to calculate public debt. A public debt
bulletin covering both domestic and external debt was published.
 The MOF developed indicators and a monitoring system for oversight of SOE financial performance. In
particular, the MOF issued a decree on the financial supervision, financial performance evaluation, and
disclosure of financial information of the enterprises and implementation guiding circulars.
 The Government completed an audit of IT security arrangements in the MOF and developed a roadmap to
implement financial sector information safety and security.
 The Government completed an evaluation of pilot PFM legislation implementation in state budget
management, corporate finance, tax administration, and social security.
 The Government drafted a regulation of the legal framework for the establishment of internal audit
mechanisms. There was a delay in issuing the decree (as had been intended in the restructuring paper) due to
the revision of the constitution and the state budget law.

Outcomes

While substantial outputs were achieved under this objective, these indicators do not adequately reflect progress
against the intermediate objective indicators as set in the results framework (restructuring paper pp.16-17).
Notably, it remains unclear whether the reform strategy was more clear than before, whether there was greater
disclosure at project end relative to baseline, how and whether the oversight capacity would have improved,
whether IT systems are more secure, and what compliance with PFM legislation was before versus after the
project. Further, the ICR would have benefited from specifying how these outputs related to the capacity built,
whether this capacity was retained, and whether and how this capacity contributed to improved coordination and
transparency in public financial management.


Objective 2: Strengthen the capacity for improved revenue mobilization : Modest
    Outputs

       The Government reviewed the implementation of 11 tax policy measures and submitted recommendations to
    the MOF.
     The development of a national single window system consistent with the Association of Southeast Asian
    Nations (ASEAN) requirements for customs administration was cancelled as a result of the cumbersome
    procedures and delay in the procurement process of the MOF.

    Outcomes

    The ICR notes progress against the implementation of 11 tax policy measures, and the development of a single
    window system. However, this is insufficient to assess progress against the intermediate outcome indicators of
    equitable and efficient tax policies; and efficient customs administration (restructuring paper p. 17).


    Objective 3: Strengthen the capacity for effective and efficient public expenditure management : Modest

    Outputs

        A roadmap of public sector accounting standards was developed and included training to MOF staff on cash
    accounting standards. This exercise identified the gap between international and Vietnamese accounting
    standards.
     13 of 26 corporate accounting standards were reviewed. Eight accounting standards were submitted to MOF
    leadership for issuance.
     The state treasury completed development of a draft project on state general accounting, including a
    roadmap and solutions to implement the state general accounting model. The MOF approved the establishment
    of the state general accountant in the state treasury in 2014.
     A roadmap for the development of Vietnam's bond markets was developed and issued by the MOF.
     The MOF issued a circular on cash revenue and expenditure management through the state treasury
    system. The state treasury completed the cash flow forecasting system and developed the cash fund control and
    risk management system.
     An assessment of the public asset database was conducted and standardized procedures for recording
    public assets developed. A training on the recording of assets in the standardized database was provided to five
    ministries and 45 provinces.

    Outcomes

    The achievement of outputs under this objective is likely to result in improved expenditure management.
    However, as indicators for the intermediate outcome indicators of higher accounting standards, improved
    capacity in financial reporting, cash management, state asset management, and debt management, they are
    insufficient. For example, a roadmap for public sector accounting standards is necessary but insufficient to
    demonstrate actual higher accounting standards.


5. Efficiency:

    Neither the PAD nor the ICR provide traditional measures of efficiency. The ICR (p. 16) states that a financial and
    cost benefit analysis was not required for this type of MDTF.

    There were, however, significant inefficiencies. The project's end date was extended twice due to slow
    disbursement and to allow alignment with all development partners' administrative agreements. Slow progress, in
    part due to low absorption capacity, meant that donors were unable to disburse all originally committed funds.
    The ICR (p. 9) also notes that there were considerable operational inefficiencies, including high transaction costs,
    and the Mid-Term Review (MTR) pointed out that overall implementation had been difficult and slow due to lack
    of a sequenced PFM strategy, the extensive breadth of engagement, and operational inefficiencies resulting from
    lengthy review and approval processes. Further, only two of the annual implementation plans that were supposed
    to govern project activities were ever generated. This made for poor sequencing, and unclear purpose and
    coordination of project activities.

    Further, the project included components that only marginally contributed to the core PFM functions, and were
    thus inefficient in their contribution to the achievement of the PFM-centric PDO. These included activities relating
    to financial market supervision, corporate finance management, and public assets management.

    Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
      Relevance of both the original and revised objectives is rated Substantial due to alignment with country
conditions, Bank strategy, and Government strategy. Relevance of design under both the original and revised
objectives is rated Modest due to an unclear results chain that included project activities that did not appear to
contribute to achievement of objectives. While considerable outputs were achieved, the original objective is rated
Modest due to lack of evidence on progress against the project development objective and associated intermediate
outcomes. Achievement of each of the three revised objectives is rated Modest due to inadequate evidence against
the revised intermediate outcomes. Efficiency is rated Modest due to operational efficiencies and high transaction
costs that resulted in delays. On balance, these ratings are indicative of significant shortcomings in the project’s
preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory under both the
original and revised objectives. Overall Outcome is therefore rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Risk to Development Outcome has been rated Moderate despite a Moderately Unsatisfactory outcome rating.
    While no outcome data are presented, the project has achieved significant outputs. Thus, this rating reflects risk
    to likely development outcome.

    The MDTF helped lay ground for some of the upstream legal framework and established roadmaps to continue
    the implementation of reform activities. The sustainability of reforms will be dependent on strategy, institutional
    capacity, financial resources, and political will. Risks are somewhat mitigated through the presence of the World
    Bank and a number of other development partners who are committed to continuing PFM support, and
    specifically building capacity of various departments in the MOF.

    However, overall public sector governance that would guide the direction and speed of PFM reform remains
    weak; coordination between MOF and other ministries, departments, and agencies remains challenged; and
    internal and external oversight continues to be ineffective. The level of political commitment that can be expected
    from the MOF, line ministries, provinces, and implementing agencies to ensure that PFM reform remains
    prioritized is unclear.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

    The operation was designed in a highly participatory manner and was directly aligned with other development
    partners as well as the priorities of the Government.

    However, quality of entry had significant shortcomings. The link between PDO and intermediate outcomes
    was weak and poorly designed, and indicators lacked specificity, relevance, and measurability and did not
    include targets. The PAD and the restructuring paper interchanged indicators with components. Absorption
    capacity during project design was overestimated, which led to delays and undisbursed funds. The operation
    was expected to have annual implementation plans, which turned out to be unrealistic. While sequencing
    was based on the SSD through implementation plans, some partners perceived sequencing to be lacking,
    which led to weaknesses in implementation. Additionally, a lack of clear roles and responsibilities of
    stakeholders was identified as problematic at the design phase, and subsequently led to implementation
    problems. There was a perception of difficulties in program administration. Notably, it took over a year for the
    Swiss contribution to the fund to be officially recognized. See also section 3b.

    The ICR points out that the operation benefitted from some lessons of the MDTF-1 including linking the
    support to strategic areas of PFM Reform, avoiding ad hoc activities, and strengthening Government
    capacities. Other donors noted that the operation insufficiently accounted for lessons from the previous
    operation, as was brought to the attention of the Bank in April 2008. These include perceived weaknesses in
    the SSD during project design, which were evident at the time of preparation, the need for a chief technical
    advisor as a risk mitigation measure, and a clearer delineation of roles and responsibilities between the World
    Bank and the Project Management Unit.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The team conducted regular supervision missions and supported the counterparts in developing concrete work
programs, and supervision strengthened the implementation of planned activities.

At MTR, project supervision identified problems with implementation, an overly ambitious PDO, and a weak
results chain during the MTR, and the Bank team proposed restructuring. The MTR findings and agreements led
to a strengthening mechanism for policy dialogue between development partners, the Bank, and MOF, measures
to improve project management, and a simplification of the results matrix. While significant improvements were
noted during the restructuring, the results framework remained weak and without baseline or targets.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Prior to restructuring, implementation was slow with considerable delays in decision making, inadequate
monitoring, and weak reporting. While the MOF welcomed the frank assessment of the MTR and put in place an
improved results framework, overall public sector governance remained weak, and coordination between MOF
and other ministries, departments, and agencies was challenging. Furthermore, internal and external oversight
continued to be ineffective, and there was limited political commitment to the PFM reform agenda.

The Government's financial contributions were adequately provided, and substantial Government staff time was
invested into the implementation of the operation.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Ministry of Finance was the Implementing Agency. Prior to restructuring, procurement activities were
    delayed, and M&E was largely absent. The performance of the implementing agency improved after
    restructuring, with an M&E framework taking shape, and the agency taking more of a coordination and
    stewardship role. However, while annual implementation plans were envisaged at project design, only two
    implementation plans materialized.

    While the ICR notes that while procurement and fiduciary processes were largely appropriate, there appears
    to have been a lack of reflection on the role of the bidding process and opaque criteria regarding the selection
    of technical advisors.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E design was negligible at project appraisal and at the time of restructuring. Indicators lacked specificity,
   relevance, and measurability, and did not include targets. At project appraisal there were no M&E arrangements.
   While the restructuring paper made an attempt to improve the results framework and included a number of
   relevant indicators, it did not accommodate for baseline information or targets.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Prior to restructuring, M&E implementation was negligible, as an M&E framework was largely absent. Systematic
   reporting on outputs improved after restructuring, and more detailed M&E tables were developed. Monitoring of
   outcomes was, however, still lacking.


c. M&E Utilization:

   The Bank adequately restructured the PDO and results framework after a candid assessment of performance at
   mid-term. Appropriate information collected by the MOF was used for making decisions on certain activities. The
   ICR (p. 12) reports that if activities were no longer needed, such as with the Customs Single Window, the project
   dropped these from the scope of the operation and released funds to newly identified priorities.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   No safeguard policies were triggered by the project.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The project complied with fiduciary covenants during implementation. Internal control arrangements were in
   place, and financial management aspects were generally in compliance with Bank procedures, although there
   were some issues during the earlier stage of project implementation such as delays in expenditure verification
   and delays in the 2012 budget and implementation plan preparation and approval. The quality of procurement
   management was acceptable to the Bank, though some flexibility had been adopted taking into account the
   nature of assignments under the project where the pool of qualified candidates was relatively limited (ICR, pp. 12,
   21).

   The ICR does not report on whether audits were unqualified and notes that the PMU had yet to submit audited
   financial statements for calendar year 2013 as required by the financial covenants. At interview, the project team
   confirmed that all audit reports were found unqualified.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately        Relevance of both the original and
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory    revised objectives is rated Substantial
                                                                              due to alignment with country priorities,
                                                                              Bank strategy, and Government
                                                                              strategy. Relevance of design under
                                                                              both the original and revised objectives
                                                                              is rated Modest due to an inadequate
                                                                              results chain. Achievement of the
                                                                              original objective and each of the three
                                                                              revised objectives is rated Modest due
                                                                              to inadequate evidence on progress
                                                                              against intermediate outcomes.
                                                                              Efficiency is rated Modest due to
                                                                              operational efficiencies and high
                                                                              transaction costs that resulted in
                                                                              delays. On balance, these ratings are
                                                                              indicative of significant shortcomings in
                                                                              the project’s preparation and
                                                                              implementation, and therefore an
                                                                              Outcome rating of Moderately
                                                                              Unsatisfactory under both the original
                                                                              and revised objectives.

          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately        There were significant shortcomings at
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    Quality of Entry,especially prior to
                                                                              restructuring. Supervision was
                                                                              proactive, and the Bank made efforts to
                                                                              correct project design issues during
                                                                              implementation. However, overall Bank
                                                                              Performance is rated Moderately
                                                                              Unsatisfactory consistent with the
                                                                              harmonized OPCS/IEG ICR guidelines
                                                                              that when one dimension is on the
                                                                              satisfactory range and the other
                                                                              unsatisfactory, the overall rating is
                                                                              aligned with the outcome rating.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        Significant shortcomings including lack
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    of political commitment, delays in
                                                                              decision making, and weak
                                                                              coordination among stakeholders.

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (pp. 22-23) draws the following lessons:

          Mid-term project adjustment can be triggered by a change in political momentum, which in turn can lead to
           improved project performance.
          Projects with a broad and ambitious structure spanning across many departments can benefit from
           effective delegation and clarity of roles, responsibilities, and accountability. From this project it follows that
           communication and a PMU with a strong coordination and facilitation role are important complementary
           factors.
          Frequent and effective communication between stakeholders is important for implementation. Given this
           project's complexity, this was particularly important to coordinate among many priorities.
          There is a trade-off between flexibility and strategic focus of a program. Allowing flexibility in the program
           meant that the government could react quickly to emerging needs, that were sometimes even outside of
           the core PFM. This, however, also meant that the operation diluted its strategic focus. After restructuring,
           the operation become more focused but less flexible.


14. Assessment Recommended?                    Yes      No

Why?

    To validate whether the project’s achievements on outputs contributed to improved PFM outcomes and to draw
    lessons on design and implementation. The assessment could inform actual project achievements. Further, the
    operation could be part of a cross-country PFM evaluation that draws lessons on PFM reform in different county
    contexts.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR sets the operation well into the background context of Vietnam, and it gives a detailed overview of the
    project's outputs. However, it is difficult to read from the ICR how the various components contributed to the
    PDO, especially prior to restructuring. The ICR does not discuss project performance, prior to restructuring and
    there is no split rating per ICR guidelines for restructured operations. Thus the ICR’s efficacy and outcome
    ratings reflect only performance of the restructured operation rather than for the project's entire lifetime.

    The ICR would have benefited from providing a non-traditional measures of efficiency (for instance value for
    money) to inform project efficiency. On a separate minor point, efficiency is rated on a four point scale from High
    to Negligible, rather than the implied six point scale in the ICR.

    The ICR's section on relevance of design is superficial.

    No reference is made to the two PRSCs, which included substantial policy actions in the PFM area. The ICR
    misses the opportunity to draw lessons on how development policy and technical assistance operations may
    complement one another. Viewing the project in isolation of other support in the intervention areas leads to
    problems of attribution. Given the Bank’s extensive engagement in PFM in Vietnam this information by way of
    background is critical for the assessment.

    Based on the comments of co-financiers, it appears that the ICR does not provide a balanced picture, especially
    regarding the quality at entry of the operation and the MTR. In particular, co-financiers noted that the ICR does
    not reflect well on the deviation of annual to two implementation plans, and the processes for recruiting experts.

    The ICR has too many pro-forma qualitative statements that are poorly substantiated. At times it is verbose and
    unclear. Lessons are not always written as such and, at times, could be read as justifications instead.

    Details of project financing at appraisal are inconsistent across the ICR. Figures in the cover sheet do not match
    those in Annex 1, and the breakdown of components in Annex 1 does not match the breakdown by source.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
