The Woid Bank                O                1811 H Street N.W.          (202) 473-1000
INTERNATICk L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT. shington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIO0/ L DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION' U.S.A.                             Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 25, 2012
His Excellency Nguyen Van Binh
C overnor,
S .ate Bank of Vietnam
Scialist Republic of Vietnam
Re: Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant to Support Public Financial Management Modernization
in Vietnam -.Phase Two (Grant No. TF094240)
Amendment to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement
E cellency:
We refer to the Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the "MDTF Grant
Agreement") between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the "Recipient") and the International
Development Association (the "World Bank"), dated May 05, 2009, as amended, for purposes of
financing phase two of the Public Financial Management Modernization Program ("the Project").
We also refer to our recent communications regarding the Netherlands' exit from the
PRogram, changes to the Project deNelopment objective and performance indicators, and the
extension of the closing date. In order to give effect to these changes, the World Bank proposes to
amend the MDTF Grant Agreement, as amended, as follows:
1.     The first paragraph of the MDTF Grant Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Socialist Republic
of Vietnam ("Recipient"), I am pleased to inform you that the International Development
Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by Canada,
through the Canadian International Development Agency; Kingdom of Denmark;
European Union, represented :y Commission of the European Union (the Commission);
Australia, through the Australian Agency for International Development (AUSAID) ; and
Switzerland, represented by the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs ("SECO")
("collectively the Donors"), proposes to extend to the Recipient a grant in an amount not
to exceed seven million one hundred and eighty eight thousand three hundred and twenty
United States Dollars (US$ 7,188,320) ("Grant") on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this letter of agreement ("Agreement"), which includes the attached Annex,
to assist in the financing of th. project described in the Annex ("Project"). This Grant is
funded out of the above mentioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic
contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in
the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to
the availability of such funds."
2.     The first paragraph of Section 2.01 of the Annex to the MDTF Grant Agreement is
arr ended to read as follows:


﻿2
"2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to support
V etnam to strengthen its capacities for: (a) increased coordination and transparency in public
finance management; (b) improved revenue mobilization; and (c) effective and efficient public
e,ipenditure management."
3      Item (b) of Section 2.04 of the Annex to the MIDTF Grant Agreement is amended to read
a; follows:
"(b)   The performance indicators referred to in paragraph (a) above consist of the
following:
(i)   Increased coordination and transparency across the national PFM system through
a clear reform strategy, greater disclosure, improved oversight capacity, more secure IT
systems, and compliance with PFM legislation.
(ii)   Improved revenue mobilization through equitable and efficient tax policies; and
efficient customs administration.
(iii)  Strengthened expendi:ure management through higher accounting standards, and
improved capacity in finEncial reporting, cash management, and state asset
management."
4      Paragraph 3.03 of the Annex to the MDTF Grant Agreement is amended to read as
fo lows:
"3.03. Withdrawal Period The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the
Standard Conditions is December 31, 2013."
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the MDTF Grant
Agreement remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your acceptance to the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing
and dating the two originals, retaining one original for your records and returning the other
original to the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of the original amendment
countersigned by you, this amendment will become effective as of the date of the
countersignature.
Sincerely yours,
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Victoria Kwakwa
Country Director for Vietnam
East Asia and Pacific Region


﻿3
C C NFIRMED AND AGREED
S,CIALIST REPUBL OF VIETNAM
A L THORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
NAME:   Le     H                  DATE:    LrOY.
TITLE: f)EfiJv  (iiwerlnn,  f r    6     of


