Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6142 
Operation Name 
Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 10 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General education sector (20%);Health (20%);General finance 
sector (20%);General public administration sector (20%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P111183 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
State Bank of Viet Nam 
49 Ly Thai To Street 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84439343366 
Fax: 84438250612 
Date PID Prepared 
January 12, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 8, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 21, 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Vietnam has weathered the 2008-09 global economic crisis relatively well, registering a real GDP 
growth of 5.3 percent in 2009, and 6.8 percent in 2010.  Vietnam stands out not only for achieving a 
higher average growth rate in the post-crisis period, but also a more stable growth path.  The rapid 
recovery has been bolstered by higher level of investment and a strong revival in exports.  Total 
investment, around 44 percent of GDP in 2010, has returned to its pre-crisis peak, reinforced not only by 
higher level of public investment, but also rise in foreign direct investment.  Exports increased by 25 
percent, helped in part by an increase in commodity prices such as rubber and coffee.  Overall, the 
recovery of the real sector of the economy has been both robust and remarkable.  
Vietnam’s impressive growth performance, however, has been tempered by accumulating 
macroeconomic vulnerabilities.  Inflationary pressure picked up in the last months of 2010; the overall 
inflation in 2010 was 11.7 percent in 2010.  Its currency has been under devaluation pressure.  The 
proposed operation is designed to assist the government in implementing medium term reforms which 
will make the economy more resilient to shocks. 
The cross-cutting nature of the policy dialogue PRSCs support strengthens coordination among line 
ministries and government agencies.  Their emphasis on a selected number of policy actions facilitates 
an in-depth discussion of their content.  Their demanding annual sequence, combined with the forward-
looking nature of the triggers used to launch the preparation of the next operation in the cycle, helps 
keep the pace of reform.  Progress made on public financial management over the last decade mitigates 
the risks associated with direct budget support.  In addition to providing resources to the budget, PRSC 
operations serves as an effective donor coordination device, supported by an increasingly large number 
of development partners.  PRSCs have been co-financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies, either 
through grants or through parallel lending. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed credit is the last in a five-year cycle aimed at supporting the implementation of the SEDP.  
PRSCs are well-suited to address the challenges Vietnam currently faces.  This operation aims to 
Page  2
maintain the momentum for the reforms needed to transform Vietnam from a transition to a middle-
income country.  Through policy dialogues it aims to share which the knowledge the World Bank and 
participating development partners collectively possess with the Vietnamese authorities, and to improve 
coherence among government agencies, and hence, policies through coordination and improving 
communication. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
PRSC 10 has 11 triggers, negotiated with the government under PRSC8, in the areas of (a) state sector, 
(b) financial sector, (c) private sector development, (d) infrastructure, (e) education, (f) health, (g) 
gender, (h) environment, (i) public financial management, (j) public administration reform, and (k) anti-
corruption.  Sufficient progress towards achieving them will form the basis for proceeding with the 
operation.  In addition to the 11 triggers, there are benchmarks that guide the policy dialogues, which are 
classified under four pillars: (1) business development, (2) social inclusion, (3) natural resources, and (4) 
modern governance.  The benchmarks are determined in consultation with the government and 
participating development partners. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a market 
economy does raise issues of environmental sustainability. To address these concerns PRSC operations 
have contained policy actions aimed at strengthening environmental management and encouraging the 
sustainable use of natural resources.  In the proposed operation, following the SEDP, environmental and 
natural resource management is viewed as a key pillar of the reform agenda. Supporting analytical work 
by the Bank, including the Country Environmental Assessment, as well as analyses of Poverty-
Environment Nexus and biodiversity, are employed to better understand environmental impacts, 
identifying gaps in the existing institutional arrangements and incentives necessary for improved 
environmental governance.  The government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental 
impact assessments, standards and compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility under the 
Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.  Though its present capacity at local level is limited, the 
government appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity 
building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment 
projects addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong 
and covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Keiko Kubota 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5777+336 / 84-4-3934-6600 
Email: kkubota@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
