                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                          <Date>
                                                                             Report No.: AB6372
                                              (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                     Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 10
Region                             EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Country                            Vietnam
Sector                             General education sector (20%); Health (20%); General
                                   finance sector (20%); General public administration sector
                                   (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%)
Operation ID                       P111183
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Implementing Agency                THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
                                   State Bank of Viet Nam
                                   47-49 Ly Thai To
                                   Hanoi
                                   Vietnam
                                   Tel: (84-4) 934-3361 Fax: (84-4) 825-0612
                                   icdwb@vnn.vn
Date PID Prepared                  October 3, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        November 7-8, 2011
Estimated Date of Board            December 15, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}          Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                   other decisions are added

I.     Country and Sector Background

Vietnam has weathered the 2008-09 global economic crisis relatively well, registering a real
GDP growth of 5.3 percent in 2009, and 6.8 percent in 2010. Vietnam stands out for achieving a
higher average growth rate in the post-crisis period and a more stable growth path with an
estimated growth rate of about 6 percent in 2011. The recovery has been bolstered by higher
level of investment and a strong revival in exports. Total investment, around 44 percent of GDP
in 2010, has returned to its pre-crisis peak, reinforced not only by higher level of public
investment, but also rise in foreign direct investment. Exports increased by 25 percent, helped in
part by an increase in commodity prices such as rubber and coffee. Overall, the recovery of the
real sector of the economy has been both robust.
Vietnam’s impressive growth performance, however, has been tempered by accumulating
macroeconomic vulnerabilities. Inflationary pressure picked up in the last months of 2010; the
overall year-end inflation in 2010 was 11.7 percent in 2010, and is projected to be around 18
percent in 2011. Its currency has been under devaluation pressure. The proposed operation is
designed to assist the government in implementing medium term reforms which will make the
economy more resilient to shocks.
II.    Operation Objectives

The proposed credit is the last in a five-year cycle aimed at supporting the implementation of the
SEDP. PRSCs are well-suited to address the challenges Vietnam currently faces. This operation
aims to maintain the momentum for the reforms needed to transform Vietnam from a transition
to a middle-income country. Through policy dialogues it aims to share the knowledge the World
Bank and participating development partners collectively possess with the Vietnamese
authorities, and to improve coherence and coordination among government agencies.
III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement


The cross-cutting nature of the policy dialogue PRSCs support strengthens coordination among
line ministries and government agencies. Their emphasis on a selected number of policy actions
facilitates an in-depth discussion of their content. Their demanding annual sequence, combined
with the forward-looking nature of the triggers used to launch the preparation of the next
operation in the cycle, helps keep the pace of reform. Progress made on public financial
management over the last decade mitigates the risks associated with direct budget support. In
addition to providing resources to the budget, PRSC operations serves as an effective donor
coordination device, supported by an increasingly large number of development partners.
PRSCs have been co-financed by bilateral and multilateral agencies, either through grants or
through parallel lending.
IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                     0
International Development Association (IDA)                                          150
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                      Total          150


V.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The implementation of the PRSC program is led by the PRSC Steering Committee. This
Committee is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and supported by a PRSC Secretariat chaired
by the Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV); both bodies include senior level
representation from relevant ministries. The PRSC Secretariat covers the program
implementation and coordinates with all relevant ministries and agencies. Stakeholder
consultations on reforms take place regularly, are government-led, and mainstreamed into PRSC
policy actions. Development partners support consultation initiatives where appropriate through
financial means and technical assistance.
Progress with the PRSC program implementation is monitored by the PRSC Secretariat with
reference to the PRSC Program Matrix, updated annually as part of PRSC negotiations. The
PRSC Secretariat meets regularly to take stock of progress and discuss next steps for policy
reform implementation. The World Bank and development partners monitor progress via
continuous dialogue throughout the year. In addition to monitoring of progress against policy
actions, the PRSC results indicators are used to track the impact of this PRSC series. In addition,
macroeconomic developments and poverty and social indicators are closely monitored.

VI.    Risks and Risk Mitigation

The short term risk is premature loosening of policy will risk repeating the recent pattern of
recurring instability. Vigorous implementation of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms such
as reform of the state-owned enterprises and the financial sectors should help Vietnam return to a
more sustainable macroeconomic environment while laying the foundations for greater
efficiency and productivity to drive medium and longer term growth. The Bank is engaged with
the government in on-going discussion on both informal and formal basis, such as its
engagement in the consultative group meetings and ad hoc Prime Minister’s Roundtables, jointly
with the IMF. An ongoing technical assistance project helps strengthen capacity for managing
public finance. The dialogue carried out through PRSC series seeks to enhance the quality and
effectiveness of financial sector regulation and supervision, and to enhance information
disclosure and effective communication of macroeconomic policies.

There is also a risk of that Vietnam will not be able to continue financing its development needs
as concessional financing begins to decline. The authorities are acutely aware of it, and are also
newly conscious that SOEs could undermine government’s finances and macroeconomic
stability. Medium-term debt sustainability is tackled through development of capital markets to
diversify the sources of funds and to reduce maturity mismatches, and better monitoring and
assessment of external debt flow. The authorities have invited the World Bank team to conduct a
Debt Management Performance Assessment (DeMPA) in preparation for stepping up its
capacity. Reviewing of the state sector is also underway, and steps are being taken to strengthen
monitoring and management of SOE finances.

The longer term risk is that Vietnam will fail to address governance issues in a systematic and
fundamental way. Accountability, especially downwards, access to information, fighting
corruption are challenges for all countries at varying levels, and Vietnam needs to continue
decisively the reform process on which it has embarked. As the Vietnam Development Report
2010 Modern Institutions has shown, improving governance requires increasing transparency at
various levels. This area receives special attention in the proposed operation, including actions
to improve transparency in public administration, strengthen the role of oversight entities and
establish framework for monitoring the fight against corruption.

Vietnam is at a crossroads. The authorities have managed to weather the external shocks with
increasing skillfulness, and have delivered impressive poverty reduction results. Although the
country has attained the lower middle-income status, there are still difficult challenges ahead,
and there will be less external support in the form of concessional financing. It is time for the
authorities and the development partners to prepare the medium-term engagement plan which is
most suited for the country at this crossroads. The World Bank is prepared to accompany the
authorities in this transition through an array of complementary programs and projects, while
ensuring that its overall partnership strategy remains well coordinated within the Bank and with
other development partners. The proposed operation is important for the country in completing
the ongoing agenda, and in entering the new phase with a strong momentum for reform.

VII.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

The reforms supported by the PRSC series have led to a transformation of the Vietnamese
economy, including an increased reliance on market mechanisms and growing integration into
the world economy. Vietnam’s rapid economic growth and resilience during the recent crises are
a testimony to the soundness of the program. This rapid transformation, however, has had large
social impacts: greater economic fluctuations from increased integration with world markets,
potential financial instability due to exposure to capital flows, growing inequality as
agglomeration effects play out and the economic hubs of the country sail ahead, and possible
vulnerabilities as market mechanisms develop throughout the social sectors. The PRSC
operations address these concerns through various measures such as strengthening and extending
the coverage of the pension programs and health insurance, taking measures to improve the
stability of the banking sector, and improving the monitoring of capital flows, and developing
policies to mitigate potential adverse effects of integration.

There are winners and losers in any reform process, and the reforms supported by this series of
PRSCs seek to create an institutional and regulatory framework that is conducive to economic
growth with enhanced social protection, while leaving grassroots efforts to reduce poverty to
other complementary operations such as Program 135 operations (mentioned above). The
country’s rapid rate of overall poverty reduction bears witness to their success. The reforms
supported by each PRSC are assessed to ensure they do not adversely affect poor and vulnerable
groups. The proposed operation supports strengthening protection of the population at large
through policy actions such as monitoring implementation of the gender equality law, analyzing
and disclosing health insurance operations and adoption of social protection strategy.

Development of bond market and SOE reforms are examples of actions aimed at improving
economic efficiency. The agenda to improve governance would also benefit the poor, as they
suffer disproportionately from corruption and inadequate public services.
Assessing the wider social impacts of a transformation of this magnitude is challenging. Good
tools exist to assess the consequences of trade liberalization, an important component in earlier
phases of the PRSC cycle. However, a retrospective assessment of the studies conducted at the
time concludes that they were not able to foresee the actual consequences. In a similar vein,
more recent attempts to identify ex ante winners and losers from the WTO accession have
proven inconclusive. The WTO accession matters because it brings competition in services,
raises standards or increases financial openness, and none of this can be easily captured with the
tools at disposal. A review of a dozen studies based on computable general equilibrium models
and almost as many sectoral studies (reported in VDR 2006 Doing Business) shows that few
results are robust across the studies, suggesting a high sensitivity to the methodology and
assumptions used. To fill this gap, increasing emphasis has been put on monitoring and
evaluation in all areas of the program (linked to the M&E framework in the SEDP). A broad
review of social protection issues was conducted under VDR 2007 Social Protection and the
Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences (VASS) completed a comprehensive poverty report in
2010.

The Social Protection VDR and more recent VASS PA updated Vietnam’s poverty assessment.
The reports identify the main shifts and shocks being faced by the Vietnamese economy through
a period of fundamental transformation, rather than dealing with potentially adverse impacts on a
policy-by-policy basis. Identifying the right set of policy responses is challenging. Historically
the Government has deployed mechanisms to ensure the participation of the poor and near-poor
in universal programs, such as exemption of school fees and waiver of health insurance premium
(under NTP-PR), and increasing spending on local infrastructure and services in poorer regions
of the country, such as the Program 135 and the 61 Poor Districts Program. More recently, the
Government has been experimenting with cash transfer programs and subsidies including, for
example, a monthly subsidy to poor households to protect them from adverse impacts of rising
electricity prices.

Environment Aspects

The rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a market
economy does raise issues of environmental sustainability. To address these concerns PRSC
operations have contained policy actions aimed at strengthening environmental management and
encouraging the sustainable use of natural resources. In the proposed operation, following the
SEDP, environmental and natural resource management is viewed as a key pillar of the reform
agenda. Supporting analytical work by the Bank, including the Country Environmental
Assessment, as well as analyses of Poverty-Environment Nexus and biodiversity, are employed
to better understand environmental impacts, identifying gaps in the existing institutional
arrangements and incentives necessary for improved environmental governance. The
government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental impact assessments,
standards and compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility under the Ministry of
Natural Resource and Environment. Though its present capacity at local level is limited, the
government appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity
building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical
investment projects addressing environmental issues. Donor support for national environmental
programs is strong and covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors.

VIII. Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Keiko Kubota
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 202-473-4161
Fax: 202-522-3094
Email: kkubota@worldbank.org
Location: Washington, DC, USA (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact:     Mrs. Thinh Thi Hong
Title:       Director-General, International Cooperation Department
Tel:         (84-4) 934-3361
Email:       icdwb@vnn.vn, prsc-htqt@vnn.vn

IX.    For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
