Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15148
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDITS 1431-MLI and SF7-MLI)
DECEMBER 13, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malian Franc (MF)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.0 (1980)   =    MF 211
US$ 1.0 (1981)   =    MF 271
US$ 1.0 (1982)   =    MF 328
US$ 1.0 (1983)   =    MF 381 (SAR)
US$ 1.0 (1984)   =    CFAF 437
US$ 1.0 (1985)   =    CFAF 449
US$ 1.0 (1986)   =    CFAF 346
US$ 1.0 (1987)   =    CFAF301
US$ 1.0 (1988)   =    CFAF 298
US$ 1.0 (1989)   =    CFAF 319
US$ 1.0 (1990)   =    CFAF 272
US$ 1.0 (1991)   =    CFAF 303
US$ 1.0 (1992)   =    CFAF 265
US$ 1.0 (1993)   =    CFAF 287 (Oct. 93)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEP          Cellule d'Ex6cution du Projet (Project Implementation Unit)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DNHE         Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
(National Directorate of Water Resources and Energy)
EMAMA        Entreprise Malienne de Maintenance (Malian Maintenance Enterprise)
MMEH         Ministry of Mining, Energy and Water Ressources
OP           Operation Puits (Operation Wells)
PCR          Projet Completion Report
PDS          Projet de Developpement Sanitaire (Sanitary Development Project)
PHN          Population Health Nutrition
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RWS          Rural Water Supply
SDR          Standard Drawing Rights
SNED         Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Developpement
(National Studies and Development Company)
WHO          World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 13, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Mali
Rural Water Supply Project (Credits 1431-MLI and SF7-MLI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Republic of Mali: Rural Water
Supply Project (Credits 1341-MLI and SF7-MLI, approved in FY84) prepared by the Africa
Regional Office, with Part 11 prepared by the Borrower. The credits, for US$10.9 million in
total, were closed September 30, 1993, one year behind schedule.
This operation was the first Bank-funded rural water supply project in Mali. Designed
with the participation of the beneficiary population, it focussed on improving water supply in
230 villages through handpump wells, setting up a user-based O&M system, and strengthening
of project preparation and management capacity at the national level.
The project design and costing proved conservative: compared to expectations at
appraisal, the credit was adequate to construct about 85 percent more wells and double the
beneficiary population to 228,000 versus 110,000 estimated at appraisal. The reason was much
lower than estimated drilling costs. Beneficiary participation could have been more effective: at
the end, some larger communities expressed their preference for piped systems instead of
handpump wells. The beneficiary contribution, two percent of the total costs, although low
compared with similar projects in Africa was twice as high as projected in the original financing
plan.
The project's policy objective--to transfer the responsibility for O&M of wells to
beneficiary communities--was implemented successfully. Today, spare parts are available to
villagers and the maintenance of wells is increasingly carried out by project-trained village
technicians with the help of some technical back-up from the national agency. Further proof of
sustainability of project benefits is the fact that all handpumps are still in good operating
condition, four to seven years after their installation. A follow-on project is being implemented
and is expected to improve the O&M system further.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact
as substantial, and the sustainability of its benefits as likely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality and provides an interesting discussion of the
implementation of this innovative project.
The project could well serve as a best practice example. To gain a better understanding of the
underlying reasons for its success the project may be audited at a later date together with the ongoing
follow-on operation as they both constitute interesting cases for beneficiary impact evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credits 143 1-MEI and SF7-NILI)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..........................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                                             .................... i;
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................... iii
B. IMPLEMENTATION .......................... , ....                                            iii
C. RESULTS .................V
D. SUSTAINABILITY ............................
E. FIND[NGS AND LESSONS LEARNED .                                                              iv
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................................................  I
A. PROJECT IDENTITY ................................................... I
B. BACKGROUND ........... . . . . . . .                                          .... . .     I
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ...,.        ....                 ..                     2
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION .   ............................,., ,.  .     .             3
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...                             ........................... 3
F. PROJECT RESULTS ...                                          ............................ 5
. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .     ............................             .      .               7
H. BANK PERFORMANCE .............................              .       .       .               7
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .        .............................                                 8
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP ...                              ........................... 8
K. CONSULTANT SERVICES ... . ........................... 9
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ...                          ........................... 9
PART H1: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .................................                             10
A. INTRODUCTION ............... 10
B. PROJECT PARTICIPANTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES .....0....................                  ...... 10
C. PHYSICAL DATA ..............., . ......,.11
D. OUTREACi AND EXXTENSION .............................                                       12
E. BOREHOLE LOCATION STUDIES ............................,,.... 12
F. EXECLTION OF THE WORPKS ........................... 13
G. PUMPING DEVICES AND MAINTENANCE ...........................  15
H. ANCILLARY ACTIVTIES ............................ 16
I. FI   NANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE DATA ...........................                           19
J. GENERAL CONCLUSION .................................................20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................                            23
A. RELATED IDA CREDITS ................................. 23
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE ................................. 23
C. CREDIT DISBURSENMENTS .......................                                              24
D. PROJECT INIPLENIENTATION ...................... ..                                         26
E. PR OJECT COST AND FIN.ANCING .......................                                       27
F. PROJECT REESULTS .................9....... 29
G. STATUS OF CONVEN.-NTS OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS ................................... .           31
H. USE OF IDA RESOURCES ...................    32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credits 1431 -MLI and SF7-ML I)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Water Supply Project, for
which Credit 143 1-MLI in the amount of SDR 4.4 million, and Special Fund Credit SF7-MLI in the
amount of SDR 6.0 million, were approved on December 20. 1983. The Credits were closed on June 30,
1993, after a one year extension. The last disbursements were on August 26, 1991 for Credit 143 1-MLI
and on July 29, 1993 for Credit SF7-MLI. The outstanding balances of SDR 29,364.73 and SDR
581,042.72, respectively, were canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and 111) and the
Borrower (Part 11).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final mission of the project in
October 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credits 143 I-MLI and SF7-ML1)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Project objectives
1.           The project's major objectives were: (i) to supply water in about 215 villages in the
district of Kita, and 15 villages in the districts of Bafoulabe and Kenieba; (ii) to set up an operation and
maintenance system of the water points which would ensure availability of spare parts and emphasize
maximum self reliance by the villagers themselves; and (iii) to help the National Directorate of Water
Resources and Energy (DNHE) strengthen its capability to identify, prepare and manage rural water supply
projects, as well as provide technical assistance to the villagers for maintenance of the hand pumps (para.
9).
B. Implementation
2.            DHNE, within the Ministry of Industry, Water and Energy, was responsible for the
implementation of the whole project, through the Project Unit (CEP). CEP was assisted by a consultant
team of three expatriates. Thanks to the skills of its local and expatriate staff, the CEP worked efficiently
and obtained very good results. Although the project was implemented over a period of nine-and-one-half
years, all the works were completed by June 1990, 18 months ahead of the appraisal estimate, and below
the appraisal cost estimate. The closing date was extended by one year to allow for additional works and to
prepare the follow-on project. Six-hundred-twenty-eight boreholes were drilled and equipped instead of
340 forecast at appraisal (para. 15). The bidding documents were prepared correctly and on schedule, and
the only procurement problems arose during project preparation, for the award of the feasibility study
contract, and at the end of the project, for additional works not forecast at appraisal (para. 17).
3.            Contractor performance was also satisfactory. The only technical problem faced by the
project was in 1987, and concerned the corrosion of galvanized pipes of hand pumps in more than 150
boreholes. The pumps were out of service for months and project credibility was questioned. Thanks to
close cooperation between the Bank, CEP, DNHE, the consultant and the manufacturer, a solution was
found and the galvanized pipes were replaced by stainless steel pipes in all boreholes with acid water. This
definitively resolved the problem (para. 23).
4.           It was more difficult to implement the policy of giving full responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the water points to the beneficiary population. Sensitization campaigns were carried out
before the start of the drilling works: each village signed a contract and paid CFAF 135,000. Villagers as
well as artisans were trained in repairing hand pumps, and the latter were given a stock of spare parts for a
group of villages. The users of a water point had to buy spare parts for a minimum of one year. The
objective was to assure sustainability of water points without intervention from DNHE.



iv
C. Results
5.            Overall, the project was overwhelmingly successful in meeting its primary objective of
improving the rural areas covered by the project with access to potable water, since the project provided
628 productive bereholes instead of 340 forecast at appraisal, and served a population of 228,000 against
110,000 estimated at appraisal. In addition, it had a considerable impact on the rural subsector as a result
of the proposed institutional and financial arrangements, which helped the Government adopt a viable
policy giving full responsibility for operation and maintenance of water supply points to the beneficiary
population, with only oversight from DNEIE (para. 26).
D. Sustainability
6.            The project helped DNHE strengthen its capacity to identify, prepare, implement and
supervise rural water supply projects throughout the country.  The participation of the beneficiary
population in the maintenance of the hand pumps should ensure the sustainability of the facilities financed
by the Credit. Despite the difficulties encountered in the implementation of this policy, 300 villagers and
50 artisans have been trained in repairing hand pumps. Spare parts have been paid for by the villagers and
the Project began to entrust local traders with the task of handling the distribution of spare parts. Although
this is being implemented slowly, it represents a very encouraging first step, and the ongoing Second
Health, Population and Water Supply Project (Credit 2217-MLI), approved on March 19, 1991, should
furthcr improve the situation (para. 31).
E. Findings and lessons learned
7.            The technical aspects of the project were performed by DNHE and its Project Unit
satisfactorily and on schedule with the help of foreign consultants. However, as happens in many
developing countries and with many rural projects, the financial and institutional arrangements were more
difficult to implement owing to the reluctance on the part of the population to pay for water. The project
was able to put in place new institutional and financial arrangements for the operation and maintenance of
rural water points (para. 25). Nevertheless, the contribution from the beneficiary population only reached
2% of the total cost, which is very low. In many African countries, this contribution is about 5% of the
project cost (para. 29).
8.            The Project had proposed only one type of water supply (boreholes fitted with hand
pumps), and the beneficiary population played no role in the design of their water systems. Perhaps it
would have been better to let the communities express their preferences because, at the end of the Project,
some larger communities seemed to have preferred piped distribution systems with reservoirs and
standpipes (para. 12).
9.            This Project showed that a project focusing on one sub-sector, one geographic area and
one implementing agency is more likely to be a success than a sector project covering several sub-sectors
and several implementing agencies throughout the country, which is now systematically done (para. 34).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJEC T
(C'redits 143 I -MLI and SF7-I LI)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project identity
Name:                     Rural Water Supply Projcct
Credit Numbers:           1431-MLI and SF7-MLI
RVP Unit:                 Africa Region
Countrx:                  Mali
Sector:                   Water Supply and Sanitation
B. Background
1.            Water supply in rural areas used to be the responsibility of the National Directorate of
Water Resources and Energy (Direction Nationale de l'Hvdraulique et de l'Energie. DNHE), established in
1974/75 within the State Ministry of Industrv. Water and Energy, which later became the Ministry of Mines.
Water and Encrgy. DNHE % as in charge of planning, design, construction and supervision of all urban and
rural water supply projects. Within DNHE. the Ground Watcr Division was responsible for planning and
executinig all rural water supply projects.  Nonetheless, anothier department of the sanie ministry, the
National Directorate of Wells (Direction Nationale de l'Operation Puits, OP), was responsible for
identification, preparation and execution of large diameter dug well projects. However, due to the lack of
funds, skilled personiel, and proper institutional and financial arrangements, the results were rather
disappointing, witli OP constructing only 120 wells in four ycars. Due to the fact that DNHE and OP are
directorates withini the same nunistry, DNHE had no control or influenice on the activitics of OP, vdhereas
DNHE was mcant to be the responsible sector agency.
2.            The Rural Water Supply Project was the second project financed by IDA in Mali for the
water and sanitation sector. IDA had been involved in the Powver and Water Project (Credit No. 1282-MLI,
approved on Julv 6, 1982). including a Water Master Plan for Bamiiako. This project was complcted in 1988.
The first mentioni of the project in the files is a request from the Bank resident representative, dated February
14. 1979. to include in the lendinig program a rural water supply project covering the same area as the health
projcct under preparation, scheduled for approval in FY83. In 1978, the Bank had carried out a sectoral
study on basic needs and, in Fcbruarv 1979. a joint BankM'7HO mission reviewed the niral water supply
scctor. At the request of the Goverinimlent, the Bank sCelt a mission to Mali in February 1980 to identify a
projcct in the rural watcr supply sub-sector. The mission idcntified a project covering the District of Kita. in
the Kaves Province. and included the construction of water points for health centers in the districts of
Bafoulabc and Kcnieba. in the same province, to support the IDA Health Project. Selection of the district of
Kita as the main area was based on logistical considerations, such as accessibility and expected successful
drilling rates.



2
3.            This project was initiated as a component of the IDA Health Project undcr preparation, but
on April 29, 1980, it was decided to prepare two separate projects in parallel. As the Health Project was
covering the three districts at once, Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) staff was of the opinion that
without the intervention of the rural water supply project for the two remaining districts of Bafoulabe and
Kenieba, no real health impacts could be attained. Since the amount allocated to this project in the lending
program., US$12.0 million, was not sufficient for the three districts, additional funds (about US$10) million)
werc requested bv the project team.
4.            To finance the needed feasibility studies, the Government submitted a request on August 1,
1980, for a PPF, and this was approved on October 10, 1980. in the amount of US$440,000. An
international invitation to consultants was issued for the feasibility studies, DNHE proposed awarding the
contract to a consulting firmi which was not on the short list approved by the Bank. Following lengthy
discussions, a consulting firm was selected in June 1981.
5.            Feasibilitv studies were completed in June 1982, and the pre-appraisal mission  took
place in Julv 1982. The mission proposed to include in the project: (i) the construction of water points in the
Kita district; (ii) water points in the districts of Bafoulabe and Kenieba for health centers, (iii) a training
program; (iv) an institutional study for the rural sub-sector; and (v) a limited urban water supply component.
The appraisal mission took place in October 1982. The main issues, as in all rural water supply projects,
were the participation of the beneficiary population, the operation and maintenance structure, and cost
recoverv.
6.            The issues paper, dated November 24, 1982. proposed the above project and recommended
an additional IDA allocation of US$1 million, thus bringing the IDA contribution to US$13.0 million, or
96% of the project cost. The Decision Meeting was held on December 8 and 15, 1982, but was unable to
resolve the issue of project scope. The Decision Memorandum was issued only on March 9, 1983. It was
agreed that the project would cover only one district but, because of the shortage of available IDA VI funds,
co-financing would be sought even for this small project. It was proposed that the urban water component
for Bamako be adopted as a separate project under the framework agreement for co-financing with the Italian
Government. This component would be entirely financed by Italian aid, but administered by the Bani/IDA.
Final!l, no agreement was reached and this component was abandoned.
7.            During the appraisal mission, on October 5, 1982, the Government submitted a request for
an additional PPF, and this was approved on August 2, 1983, in the amount of US$550,000. The purpose of
this additional amount was for the construction of a project base in Kita, to form the nucleus for a futire
regional office of DNHE. which could cover most of the first Administrative Region (Kayes), with its five
districts.
8.            To resolve the problem of shortage of IDA funds, it was decided to finance the Project by an
IDA Credit of SDR 4.4 million and an IDA Special Fund Credit of SDR 6.0 million.
C. Project objectives and description
9.            Project obiectives:  The project's major objective was to improve living and sanitary
conditions, and thus contribute to the quality of life of the rural population. To meet this objective, the
Project proposed: (i) to supply water in about 215 villages in the district of Kita, and 15 villages in the
districts of Bafouabe and Kenieba; (ii) to set up an operation and maintenance svstem of the water points
which would ensure availability of spare parts and emphasize maximum  self reliance bv the villagers



3
themselves; and (iii) to strengthen the capability of DNHE to identify, prepare and manage rural water
supply projects, as well as provide technical assistance to the villagers for maintenance of the hand pumps.
10.           Project description: The project consisted of: (a) provision of productive boreholes, about
325 in the district of Kita and 15 in the villages of the districts of Bafoulabe and K6nieba where health
centers would be built under the IDA Health Project; (b) installation of about 340 hand pumps and supply of
necessary replacements and spare parts; (c) management of the Project including (i) consultant services for
project preparation, (ii) construction of a management base in Kita, and (iii) technical assistance, (d)
consultant services for a mid-tern review and preparation of a second project in the districts of Bafoulabe
and Kenieba; and (e) construction of additional water points according to the mid-project review.
D. Project design and organization
11.           The project concept was developed, with inputs from  Bank staff, by the participating
institutions and ministries over a three-and-a-half-year period (02/79 to 10/82). The length of this period of
preparation was due to the time needed to recruit a consulting firm for the feasibility study (para. 4 above),
and to the unavailability of IDA funds to finance the three districts covered by the Health Project, which
obliged the project team to seek co-financing, without success. Nonetheless, the feasibility study was carried
out quickly, between June 1981 and June 1982, and was well prepared.
12.           The project had proposed only one type of water supply to participating villages (boreholes
fitted with hand pumps). With the failure of many rural water supply projects in West Africa, the trend is
now to move towards a more "demand driven" approach, and to let communities express their preferences.
For example, they could opt for open wells, small distribution networks with solar or diesel pumping, rain
water catchments, or whatever is feasible, and participate in the project financing accordingly. In this
project, the beneficiary population played no role in the design of their water system and, at the end of the
project, some larger communities expressed their preference for distribution systems with reservoirs and
standpipes.
13.           The institution responsible for the execution of the Project was the National Directorate of
Water and Energy (DNHE), within which was established a Project Unit (CEP), installed in Kita and
responsible for the monitoring of project implementation, with the help of a consulting firm. The Project
Unit comprised a project manager, a geophysicist, two hvdrogeologists, an assistant hydrogeologist and an
assistant hydraulician, plus two pump specialists at the end of the Project. CEP was supported by a
technical assistance team  of three persons: an engineer, a geophysicist, and a hydrogeologist.  The
appointmcnt of the project manager was a condition of negotiations, and was done on time.
E. Project implementation
14.           Credit effectiveness and project start-up: The credits were approved on December 20, 1983
and signed on January 23. 1984. Effectiveness, originally scheduled for April 23, 1984, was postponed to
July 22, 1984. The specific conditions of effectiveness were: (i) the signing of a contract with a consulting
firm to assist in the management of the Project and provide technical assistance to the DNHE Field Team;
(ii) the establishment by DNHE of a Project Account: and (iii) a deposit by the Government of Malian
Francs 20 million, and ani allocation of MF 110 million for fiscal year 1984. On June 1, 1984, Mali rejoined
the African Financial Community, and the MF was replaced by the CFAF, at an exchange rate of MF 2 for
CFAF 1. Although conditions (i) and (iii) above had not been met, the Credits were declared effective 011
June 26. 1984. Two months later, on September 4, 1984, the Bank threatened to suspend disbursements,
because of arrears due to the Bank by the Government on previous credits.



4
15.           Implementation schedule:  Table 4, Part 111, gives the actual implementation schedule,
compared with that estimated at appraisal. Project implementation was originally scheduled to be completed
by December 31, 1991. Although 628 boreholes were drilled and equipped against 340 forecast at appraisal,
everything was completed in June 1990, eighteen months in advance, except for the preparation of a follow-
up project.
16.           Since about SDR 1.0 million was still available in the two credits. DNHE requested in
December 1991 the financing of some additional wvorks and studies: (1) rehabilitation of 50 existing pumps
in the Kaves District: (2) establishmenit of a chemical map of underground water in the Kayes Region; (3)
purchase of twvo vehicles and four motorbikes for the DNHE regional directorate of Kaves; (4) wvater supply
works for the hospital of Bafoulabc (5) drilling of 35 borcholes in the district of Kolokani; (6) survey of
existing pumping systcms in the Kayes Region: and (7) preparation of bidding documenits for the follow-up
project, in the district of Kenieba . The Association agreed by letter dated November 14, 1991, except for
item No.2. Items 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 wcre realized on time but. for item 5, nothing was done. The bidding
process was launched in February 1992 for the drilling of 35 boreholes in the district of Kolokani. Since it
wsas not possible to complete this work before teie initial closing date of the credits. June 30, 1992, the
Association agrecd, by telex dated April 8. 1992, to extend the closing date to June 30. 1993. The evaluation
of bids was completed in July 1992 but the ministry only approved the contract award in March 1993. At
that tinie, the Association replied that there was not enoughi time to complete the works before the new
clos5ing date, June 30. 1993.
17.           Procurement: During project preparatiotn, a procurement problem arose for the feasibility
studv, because DNHE proposed awarding the contract to a consulting firm  which was not on the short list
approved by the Association (para. 4). It took four months to resolve the issue. After effectiveness, the
procurement process started out quickly and proceeded satisfactorily. The contract for the construction of
the Kita Base was awardcd on Januarv 5. 1984, six monthis before effectiveness, and the supervision
contract. the signing of which was a condition of effeciveness, was signed in August 1984. The contract for
the drilling works was awvarded on June 1. 1984, signed on October 12, 1984 and the contractor was notified
of the award on Januarv 8, 1985, for three drilling campaigns. An amendment for the fourth campaign was
signed on February 17. 1988. and another amendment for the fifth one on May 23, 1989.  Another
procurement problem arose at the end of the Project. wvhen the ministrv was unable to take a decision for the
drilling of 35 boreholes in the Kolokani District, betwecrn July 1992 and March 1993, which led to the
cancellation of this componeint (para. 16).
18.           Procct costs: A comparison bctween the appraisal estimates and the actual costs of the
Project is giveil in Part 111. sectioni 5. table 5.A. The appraisal cost estimate was CFAF 4,437.5 million
(about SDR 10.4 million). and the actual cost was CFAF 4,408.5 million, although CFAF 164.2 million
were spcnt for additional works not forecast at appraisal (para. 16). Although 628 productive boreholes
were drilled and equipped. instead of 340 planned at appraisal, the final amount of this contract was CFAF
2,296.1 million. compared to the appraisal estimate of CFAF 2,373.6 million. The actual drilling cost was
US$14,625 per productive borehole, compared to US$27,925 estimated at appraisal. On the other hand., the
cost of hand puimps rciiained the same, about US$3.300 per unit installed. wlhich is very high.
19.           Disbursemenits:  In Part 111. Table 3. actual quarterlv disbursements of the Credit are
compared with the appraisal estimates and the disbursement profile of water and sanitation projects in
Africa. Disbursements were spread over 6.5 years. for the project as designed initially (para. 35). This
compares to the profile of water supply projects in Africa (7.5 years) and to the 8.5 year disbursement period
which had been estimated at appraisal. At the end of the works, on June 30, 1990, US$1 1.28 million had



been disbursed, and only US$0.6 million were disbursed between Juil 1990 aind Octobcr 1993, for additional
works and the preparation of the followv-up project. As the result of the US dollar/SDR depreciation
US$11.88 million was disbursed, against the appraisal estimate of US$10.91 million. The original closing
date of June 30, 1992 was cxtended to June 30. 1993, and disbursements on commitmcnts took place through
August 26, 1991 for Credit 143 1-MLI. and Julv 29, 1993 for Credit SF7-MLI. The outstandinig balances of
SDR 29,364.73 and SDR 581,042.72. respectivelv, were canceled.
20.           Credit allocation: The original allocations bv category and the actual disbursemctnts under
Credits 1431 -ML1 and SF7-MLI are shown in table 5C, Part Ill. There were two formal reallocations, in
July 1984 and June 1989. The first one was needed because the construction of the DNHE Basc. in Kita.
should have been financed from the additional PPF. but nothing had been disbursed when the Credits were
declared effective. Therefore, it was necessary to transfer SDR 0.6 million from categorv 4, refunding of
PPF, to a nlew sub-category l.b. Category I (civil works) showed a cost uniderruni of SDR 336,800. while
category 11 (vehicles, equipment, and hanld pumps) was ovcrrun by SDR 776.200, bccause 630 hand pumps
were provided, instead of 355.  Category 111, consultants' services and studies, was overrun by SDR
505,400. because, taking account of the availabilitv of funds, the Credits financed the drilling of 153
boreholcs in the district of Bafoulabe, not forecast at appraisal, and the preparation of the rural water supply
componcnt of the Second Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Projcct (Credit 2217-MLI), inow in
progress.
F. Project results
21.           Proiect obiectives: Overall, the Project was successful in meeting its principal objectives of
improving access to potable wvater in the districts of Kita and Bafoulabe. Concerning the operation and
maintenance system which would ensure availability of spare parts to be used by the villagers thcmscives.
success is not ct obvious, but the svstem is improving slowly and surelv. The Project also assisted in
strengthening the management and organization of DNHE and its capacitv to implement subsequent projects.
as well as to providc tecinical assistance to the villagers for maintenance of the hand pumps.
22.           The project has contributed to the overall development of the rural water supply subsector in
Mali. In particular, the institutional and financial arrangements implemented under the project for the rural
water supply subsector have had a substantial impact, helping the Governmenit adopt a policy allocating full
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the water points to the beneficiary population, with
oversight from DNHE. In addition, the Project helped the Government improve organizational structures,
particularly that of DNHE.
23.           Physical results: The phvsical targets of the project wcre overwhelmingly achieved: 628
productive (more than I m3/h) boreholes were drilled and equipped, instead of 340 as estimated at appraisal;
630 hand pumps were installed, instead of 340; and a population of 228,000 were served, instead of
110,000. The success rate of drilling, estimated at 50% at appraisal, reached 70%. It is worth noting that
all the 630 hand pumps installed are still working well, four Nears aftcr the end of the works, and scven vears
after the installation of the first pumps. The onlv technical problem faced by the project, in 1987. was the
corrosion of galvanized pipes of hand pumps in more than 150 boreholes. The pumps were out of service for
months and the wholc project could have been jeopardized. It was finally decided to replace galvanized pipes
by stainless steel pipcs in all borcholes with acid xvater, and this definitely resolved the problem.
24.           The project has dramatically improved the living conditions of the rural population served bv
the Project. in particular. according to the villagers themselves: (i) a great improvemcint of the health
situation, wvhich should be confirmed bv the follow up project; (ii) availability of water gives the villagers the



6
opportunity to improve or expand their houses; and (iii) the time saved for getting water gives the women the
opportunity to carry out other activities.
25.           Institutional performance: On the institutional side, the project objectives were twofold: (i)
strengthen DNHE, the implementing agency, and (ii) put in place new institutional and financial
arrangements for the operation and maintenance of rural water points. The first objective was satisfactorily
achieved, thanks to the continuing education provided by the technical assistance team to the Project Unit
(CEP). The highly-qualified and efficient team of CEP remained on hand throughout the implementation
period.
26.           The second objective was more difficult to achieve and needed a sensitization program to
give the villagers full responsibility for operation and maintenance of the water points.  To assure
sustainabilitv of the water points, a three level system was put in place:
(a)    at the village level, 300 villagers were trained in repairing of hand pumps, 220 for
the Kita District and 80 for the Bafoulabe District, equipped with basic tools. The
water points users bought spare parts for a minimum of one year:
(b)    fifty artisans were trained, 32 for the Kita District, 10 for the Bafoulabe District and
eight for the health centers of these two districts. They were provided with tools and
motorbikes; and
(c)    at the DNHE Base, in Kita, a small team of three persons, including tvo handpump
specialists, is responsible for the supply of artisans and villagers with spare parts.
For that, an important stock of spare parts for hand pumps and of galvanized and
stainless steel pipes was constituted in Kita, for sale to the villagers. Its value is
about CFAF 30 million.
27.           This system has been working well for three years. However, the key element is the Kita
base, which needs Government funds to operate, because its revenue is only about CFAF 3.5 million a year,
and has an operating cost of CFAF 5.0 million. The Kita team will not stay there indefinitely, and it was
necessary to considerably reduce the administrative cost to the Government for maintaining the hand pumps.
Therefore, it was proposed to entrust traders with the task of handling the distribution of spare parts and
selling them to villagers. The price of spare parts has been increased, in order to assure their profit. This is
being implemented slowly, but one can be optimistic for the long term.
28.           Financial performance: The project accounts were regularly audited by an external auditor,
anud the reports were received (with some delays) by the Bank. In particular, the audits for the 1989-90 and
1990-91 periods were carried out together. The Bank received in July 1992 an audit report covering the
period from August 1. 1989 to July 31, 1991. This report showed that the accounts were not correctlv
prepared because there was no accountant: the auditor had to prepare the accounts prior to his audit review
(a procedure that is not in conformity with good audit practices) and, in spite of that, he was unable to
approve these accounts. There was some discussion, because several expenses were lacking justificative
documents (for a total amount of CFAF 15,810,000) and non-eligible expenses had been paid for from the
Project Account, as custom duties and taxes for an amount of CFAF 12,514,075, which was not consistent
with the fiscal conditions of the Project. Satisfactory explanations were given by a DNHE letter dated
October 5, 1992, and non justified payments were reimbursed. As a matter of fact, the accountant was a
member of the consultant's team and, on IDA's request, he left at the end of the main contract, in 1989. In
1990 and 1991, the consultant was in charge of the preparation of the follow up project, but the contract did



7
not include any accountant. Since 1992, the team has been complete, for the new project, and there is no
longer a problem.
29.           With respect to payment of direct contributions by the beneficiaries, a total amount of CFAF
83.3 million was actually collected, compared to a total of CFAF 45 million expected at appraisal. This
represents only 2% of the total cost, which is negligible. In many projects in Africa, 5% is required from the
population, without any problem. The training program to sensitize villagers to take responsibility for the
water points has been very successful: each village contributed CFAF 135,000, before drilling started,
toward the cost of the hand pumps and repair costs were borne entirely by the beneficiaries. These
contributions were easily collected after the sensitization campaigns and the signing of a village contract,
before the drilling works. It was much more difficult when the sensitization program was delaved and done
only after the drilling works, which happened in 1987, because of logistic and staffing problems.
30.           According to section 3.0l.c of the DCA, the Government was committed to contribute CFAF
325 million to project financing. The following table shows the commitments, year by year, and the actual
contributions, in CFAF millions:
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988        Total
Commitments                 55       55       75      95       45       325
Actual payments           17.5    57.5        80      45       95       295
On the whole, the Government almost met its obligations, but it reduced its contribution for FY 84 from 55
million to 17.5 million and proposed to fill in the gap by exonerating the fuel consumed by the drilling
operator from taxes, but this opportunity was not used by the contractor.
G. Project sustainability
31.           The project has had a significant positive impact in that it caused new institutional and
financial arrangements to be put in place in the rural water supply subsector, giving full responsibility to the
beneficiary population for operation and maintenance of rural water points, with oversight from DNHE, and
assuring cost recovery and hence the sustainability of the installed facilities. DNHE and the Government
need to continue their efforts in the area of private sector involvement in the distribution of spare parts. The
ongoing Second Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Project is expected to provide immediate
assistance on this aspect, but efforts need to continue.
32.           Project sustainability is closely linked to the standardization of hand pumps, because it is
easier to put in place a network of spare parts for 3,000 pumps than for 100 or less. The failure of most
rural water supply projects is due to the fact that each project has its own type of pumps. In the Kayes
Region, there are eight different types of pumps, with no possibility of finding spare parts. It is very
important that, after this successful project, new projects use the same tvpe of hand pumps, manufactured in
Mali.
H. Bank performance
33.           Supervision by IDA was relatively continuous, although four task managers worked on the
project. During implementation, a total of 14 successive supervision missions visited Mali, at the rate of one
per year, except at the peak of activities, where two missions visited Mali in 1986 and three missions in



8
1987. Some 164.8 staff-weeks were spent on this project over the entire project cycle. The details of staff
input and missions are given in Part III. section 8, tables 8.A and 8.13.
34.           IDA's performance was satisfactory.  The project was well prepared, appraised, and
supervised. IDA's efforts in the institutional and financial areas were effective, and this project represents a
rare success of Bank involvement in rural water supplv. It is worth noting the reasons for this success: the
project was focused on one sub-sector (rural water supply), one geographical area (two districts of the same
province), and one implementing agency (DN1HE). The SAR is very clear, concise and short (27 pages plus
16 pages of annexes). Since sector projects have been generalized, covering both rural and urban water
supplv, sanitation and environment, the SARs reach easily 150 to 200 pages (204 pages for the Health,
Population and Water Supply Project), including annexes. anid the rate of success is inversely proportional to
the degree of complexity of the Project
35.           One remark concerniig the use of disbursement profiles should be made: the implementation
schedule, anncx 4-4 of SAR, shows that the works would be completed by the end of 1989 but, to respect the
Africa disbursemilent profile for water supply projects. which at that time were spread out on a 8.5 vear
period (ieduced to 7.5 years at present), disbursements were estimated continue to June 30. 1992. Actually.
the implementation schedulc was respected anld actual disbursements were completed in 6.5 years. On June
30. 1990, US$1 1.28 million had beetn disbursed, and only US$0.6 million were disbursed after that date.
The graph on page 3. Part II, clearly shows that the project was completcd in June 1990. Since this date.
the rcmainiing Credit amount was partially used to prepare the Hiealth, Population and Water Supply Project,
but it wNould have beeni better to close the Credit at the end of 1990 and to grant a PPF for the preparation of
the new project. rather than to continue three vears for such a small amount, with a cost to IDA and the
Borrowcr ligher than the disburscd amount. In addition, most of the problems arose during this period
because thcre was no more leverage, less motivation and slack supervision. Therefore, the obligation to
follow the disburseimient profile shiould be questioned.
1. Borrower performance
36.           Owing to the high competence of its staff, the CEP turned in an excellent performance: the
bidding process progressed on schedule, with the bid evaluation reports prepared on time and the contracts
concluded wvithout any problem and below the appraisal cost estimates. Nonetheless, one exception should
be notcd: in 1992. the bid evaluation report for the drilling of 35 boreholes in the Kolokani District was only
subnlitted to the Bank onc vcar after the submission of bids, and it was too late to carrv out the works, even
though the closing date had been exteinded by one vear. The ministry was responsible for this delay and not
to CEP.
37.           Quarterly progress reports were submitted bv CEP to IDA in a timely manner up to March
1990. There have been no progress reports since then for the Project. but the first progress reports for the
follow ulp project covered the period October 1991-March 1992.
,. Project relationship
38.           IDA's relationship with DNHE on the prQject was very good.  Relations with the
Govcrinmcint also were good. Borrower-contractor relationishilps were also very good, and relations with the
consultants were excellent



9
K. Consultant services
39.           The successful completion of the works, on schedule and within the limits of the appraisal
estimate, would not have becn possible without the high quality consultant inputs received during project
preparation and implementation.  In addition, the consultants were successful in training the Malian
counterparts: the consultant's team was reduced from three to two, then to one, to give greater responsibilitv'
to the Malians of CEP. In particular, the Malian geophysicist was fully responsible at the end of the project
for the location of the borcholes, and the rate of succcss continued.
L. Project documentation and data
40.           The original documentation for the project was adequate and appropriate. Thc appraisal
report provided a usefiul framework for both IDA and DNHE in their review of project implementation.



10
PART II: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
41.           The steady decline in rainfall, which has gone on for more than a decade, has led to declining
water tables and premature drying up of creeks and ponds. The situation is having a dramatic impact on
many villages, especially during the dry season (November to June). To remedy the unreliability of the
traditional water supply system, at the beginning of the decade the Government of the Republic of Mali
embarked on a series of large-scale village water works programs. The districts of Kita and Bafoulabe in
Mali's Region 1, had never before benefited from any large-scale works of this kind. With the financial
support of the World Bank, the KBK Rural Water Supply (RWS) project has finally satisfied this need.
This first project covers the district (district) of Kita and part of the district of Bafoulabe.
42.           Under the initial contracts, the objective of the KBK RWS project was to construct 340
productive boreholes in the district of Kita and supply 355 hand pumps, of which 340 would be installed in a
series of threc nine-month campaigns, plus a possible fourth campaign, at a total cost of SDR 10.4 million.
The project has resulted in the construction of the following productive boreholes (with a capacity of I m3/hr
or more): 460 in the district of Kita; 157 in four sectors (arrondissements) of the district of Bafoulabe, and
I I to serve the Bafoulabe and Kenieba health centers. All these boreholes are equipped with India Mali
manual pumps manufactured at Sikasso. The construction of these works has almost totally resolved the
water supply problems of 205 administrative villages and 96 hamnlets of the district of Kita and 90
administrative villages and 27 hamlets of four sectors of the district of Bafoulabe, at a cost of SDR 10
million. Certain ancillary activities were also carried out. The undisbursed balance at closure was SDR
610,000.
43.           This report describes the activities conducted and works carried out from August 1984 to
June 1993, the closure date of credits 1431- and SF 7-MLI.
B. Project participants and responsibilities
44.           The works under the KBK RWS project were financed jointly by the World Bank, by means
of two credits, 143 I-MLI and SF 7-MLI (92 percent), and Mali (8 percent). The works were started in the
district of Kita in October 1984. The boreholes component for the Bafoulabe district were completed in June
1989 and the supplementary works and studies in June 1993. A number of Malian and international
cnterprises pooled their efforts to build these 628 work projects.
45.           The project principal is the former Ministry of Industry, Water Resources and Energy
(MIHE), nowv the Ministry of Mining. Energy and Water Resources (MMEH). The executing agency is the
National Directorate of Water Resources and Energy (DNHE). Through its Project Execution Unit (Cellule
dExecution du Projet--CEP), the DNHE delegated part of its authority to the German engineering
consultants DfWI, as delegated executing agency. The outreach/extension activities were conducted by the
Sanitation Development Project (Projet de Developpement Sanitaire-PDS), an agency of the Ministry of
Health, and the National Studies and Development Company (Sockete Nationale d'Etudes et de
Developpement--SNED). ODIPAC-DNAFLA staff participated in the outreach/extension activities in the
field. The borehole works were entrusted to the FOREXI HYDROSAHEL Group (Ivorian and Malian
enterprises). The pumps were manufactured at Sikasso by EMAMA and supplied first bv the Malian
company PIE (355 pumps) thcn in the later stages by the CEP (280 pumps). All these pumps were installed



11
by PIE and repair artisans trained during the project (55 repairmen). Audits were conducted at the end of
each campaign, first by the DIARRA firm (campaigns 1, 2 and 3) and later by the SARECI company
(campaigns 4, 5, 6 and 7). An evaluation mission, led by L. Hoffinan, at the beginning of campaign 3 served
to optimize the project activities. The World Bank participated in the form of regular visits. A water works
base was built at Kita by the SNTP company, supervised by SEMA. This base housed the participants
throughout the project. The project was prepared in 1981 and 1982 by the DNHE with the support of the
BRGM.
46.           The Kita district, which had never previously been the target of any large-scale village water
works projects, now possesses (June 1993) 460 hand pumps for a rural population of about 181,000 (not
including the city of Kita), providing one modem water point for every 400 persons or 25 liters of potable
water per person per day. In the case of the Kita district, the objectives of the Potable Water Decade can be
said to have been achieved.
47.           To ensure the durability of the works, a three-tier maintenance organization has been setup
(villagers, rural artisan, and Kita water works base). A total of 220 village water officials have been trained
and equipped with a small kit of basic tools. In addition, 32 repairmen have been trained and provided with a
tool kit and means of travel, enabling them to perform all repairs. These artisans also have access to a stock
of spare parts, either at home, in the ODIPAC stores or at dealers distributed around the district. In the case
of the Bafoulabe district, the 160 productive boreholes have been fitted with pump installations, about 180
village officials have been trained and 10 repair artisans have been equipped, trained and provided with
means of travel. Another eight repairmen have been trained and equipped for the Kenieba and Bafoulabe
health centers. The villagers have been given a set of emergency spare parts for each pump installed. These
spare parts stocks enable them to cope with all types of breakdowns that can occur during a minimum year.
At the third level, the Kita base, a small 3-person team, including an India pumps specialist, is responsible
for supervising and supplying the first two tiers. For that purpose a large stock of handpump spare parts and
galvanized and stainless steel pipes has been set up. This stock will be replenished annually as the needs of
the rural repairmen require. In June 1993 the value of the stock was over CFAF 30 million.
48.           This system has been operating for six years and appears to be well over any teething pains.
The presence of level 3, in the person of the Kita water works base technician, is however an essential factor.
In 1990, 1991 and 1992 sales of spare parts averaged CFAF 3.5 million a year. However, the operating
costs of the Kita team (technician's compensation, driver's and guard's wages, vehicle, and base maintenance
costs) came to CFAF 5 million. Spare parts marketing is thus far from a profitable proposition at this time.
It is true that few dealers maintain such a strong monitoring team. The Kita team will not remain in place for
ever, and provision needs to be made for transfer of the responsibilities at this level to the private sector. It is
noteworthy, however, that the 628 pumps installed are still operating four years after completion of the field
work and eight years after the first pumps were installed.
49.           Apart from this long-term maintenance aspect, a difficult one for the project to deal with, the
activities have been definitely successful. Many villagers were turned away during the last campaign. The
rural people, hesitant when the project began, came to understand the benefits it can bring them, and
applications poured in during the course of the campaigns.
C. Physical data
50.           The Kita district extends from latitude 12002 to 14021 N and longitude 8027 to 10024 W.
The Bafoulabe district lies between latitudes 12000 and 14020 N and longitudes 8027 and 10024 W. Kita



12
covers an area of 35,200 km2 and Bafoulabe 20,660 km2. Elevation ranges from 100 meters to 806 meters,
at the Guinea frontier. With the first rains many villages become inaccessible.
51.           The districts of Kita and Bafoulabe belong to the Kayes region (Region 1). In 1988 the
population of the Kita district was estimated at 240,800 and that of Bafoulabe at 148.700. Each district
(cercle) comprises eight sectors (arrondissements), which are in tum divided into administrative villages and
hamlets. The sector is the basic echelon, where the central administration is represented. The sectors range
in area from 1,500 to over 10,000 knm2 and in population from 10,000 to ovcr 30,000.
52.           Farming and herding form the base of the economy. Although monev incomes are low,, as a
rule the village inhabitants have experienced no major difficulty in raising the financial contributions
requested of them. For a village of 400 people, the quota of CFAF 135,000 amounts to CFAF 4,000 per
concession (about 12 persons), CFAF 2,000 per household (about six persons) and just over CFAF 300 per
capita. This represents a distinctly lower burden than other compulsory contributions. Moreover, the result
is something that is verv soon visible and usable.
D. Outreach and extension
53.           Village outreach/extension in the water sector encompasses all informational, sensitizing,
education and training activities geared to the local population. Outreach/extension work usually starts out
from needs expressed or felt by the population. The villages in a given area do not all have the same
capacity for organization or the same degree of motivation to deal with a given problem. Water supply by
the borehole and handpump method represents technological innovation. The people of a village need to
come to accept this innovation and progressively assume responsibility for it. The task of the extension
service is therefore to organize the village and create and foster in it the necessary conditions of mutual
involvement to make that assumption feasible. A major factor in this process is health education applied to
use of the water. A population's health is closely bound up with the quality of its water supply.
54.           Health programs can only be accepted. and understood by the populations if they are assured
of proper water supply. Its continuous supply depends on proper operation and maintenance of the pumping
equipment. and this is something for which the people themselves must assume responsibility.  The
outreach/extensioni activities were entrusted to the Sanitation Development Project (Pro jet de D6ve1oppement
Sanlhaire--PD^S). which conducted an important sanitary program (family health, health-care improvement
and communuity promotion) in the three districts of Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba.
E. Borehole location studies
55.           Borehole site locating takes place following a practically total geophysical study (less than
10 pcrcent of the boreholes were made following a simple morphological and photogeological study).
Electrical and magnetic methods were used in prospecting. On average, one electrical prospecting test is
performed pcr village, supplemented by electrical (1,000 m) anid possibly magnetic measurement trains. The
trains arc perpendicular to the fractures identified by photo-interpretation. The completion rate is around 30-
35 location studies per month. The geophysical study is not done at random but takes into account the
photo-interpretative study data. Measuremenits are preceded by a rapid geological and hydrogeological study
in the village.



13
56.          The personnel of the geophysical team varied over the course of time. Three successive
periods can be distinguished:
Campaigns I and 2, from October 1984 to June 1986. Team composed of the expatriate
geophysicist, the Malian geophysicist and either one or two drivers. The maniual workers
are recruited daily in the villages prospected. Two vehicles are used.
Campaigns 3 and 4, from October 1986 to June 1988. The two geophysicists (expatriate
11 and Malian) are present, supplemented for two quarters by a Malian operator. A team
of four manual workers is present throughout. Two vehicles are used.
Campaign 5, from October to June 1989. Only the Malian geophysicist is present,
assisted from January onward by an experienced Malian operator. The manual team is
present. Only one vehicle is used.
57.          For campaigns I through 4, the geophysical studies were performed using an expatriate
engineer and a Malian technician. The monthly cost of these campaigns was CFAF 4,035,000. A total of
1,087 borehole location studies were performed, in 36 months of field work (nine months per campaign), i.e.
about 30 per month. The cost per location study is CFAF 135.000. With an overall success rate for the four
campaigns of 70 percent, the cost of the location studies comes to CFAF 190,000 per productive borehole.
For campaign 5, costs fell sharply with the departure of the expatriate geophysicist and the use of a single
vehicle. The monthly cost of this campaign was CFAF 1,428,000. For this fifth campaign, 250 site location
studies were carried out. in eight months of field work, i.e. 31 per month, at a cost of CFAF 46,000 each.
This alternative, using a Malian geophysicist and an operator, will be adopted for the borehole location
studies, under the village water works project in the district, of Kenieba and Bafoulab6.
F. Execution of the works
58.           The drilling work was started on March 7, 1985 and completed on May 20, 1989. During
these five campaigns 907 boreholes totaling 59,566 meters were made. Of these, 628 (totaling 38,083 m)
were converted into operational boreholes. All these boreholes were equipped at the surface with a curb and
improved surround.
CAMPAIGN                 POS/NEG                POSITIVE               NEGATIVE
BOREHOLES              BOREHOLES               BOREHOLES
84/85                 104                      75                      29
85/86                 190                     133                      57
86/87                 193                     136                      57
87/88                 211                     136                      75
88/89                 209                     148                      61
TOTAL                       907                     628                    279
Success rate, by locality
- number of localities drilled      420
- number of localities equipped     414
- success rate                      98%



14
Success rate, by borehole
- number of boreholes               907
- number of equipped boreholes      608
- success rate                      69%
Success rate, by geological formation
- sandstone                         76%
- sandstone pelitic schists         62%
- argillaceous schists              46%
- dolerites                         64%
- mixed dolerites-sandstones-schists  67%
59.           The average capacity for the whole of the equipped boreholes is 8 m3/hr. The largest output
encountered exceeded 100 m3/hr. The 628 equipped boreholes have the following capacity distribution:
-             > IO m3Ihr:  21%
-             4-10 m3/hr:  29%
-             1-4 m3/hr:   44%
-             0.7-1.0 m3/hr: 6% (village having had several negative boreholes).
60.           The 907 test drillings total 59,566 meters, giving an average depth of 65.7 m. The 279
negative test dfillings total 21,483 m, i.e. an average of 77 m. Looking at potential return on effort, it was
decided, after having studied the zone during the first two campaigns, almost automatically to halt all
negative boreholes at a depth of 75 m. The fact is that in the sandstone and dolerites, positive boreholes are
rare beyond that depth and, save in exceptional cases, it is more profitable to go on to another test borehole
than to persist below 75 m with one that is yielding no water.
Depth                  Positive               Negative              Success Rate
(m)                  Boreholes              Boreholes                  (%)
< 45                     92                       7                      93
45<55                  160                     11                      93
55 < 65               145                      23                      86
65< 75                171                     131                      57
75<85                  28                      19                      60
85 < 95                29                      29                      49
> 95                       4                      59                       6
61.          Pumping tests were performed systematically on the projects classified as positive. A total
of 628 tests were done (four hours of pumping at different stages of increasing output, two hours of
recharge). The results of these tests confirm the quality of the aquifers tapped (good replenishment, low level
drops, few residual level drops).
62.          The laboratory chemical analyses (anions Cl, S04, HCO3, NO3, NO2, and cations Ca, Mg,
Fe, Na, K) covered most of the positive boreholes. They were performed on samples taken after two hours
and thirtyv minutes of pumping. The field measurements concerned temperature, conductivity, pH, limpidity
and taste. For most of the water samples studied, mineralization is within the potability normns. A high
proportion of waters have a bicarbonated, calcic and magnesian facies. Cases were found of water with an
abnormal content of dissolved salts, in villages located along the Bafing and the Senegal. In response to the
corrosion problems encountered at a number of sites with sandstone aquifers, the pumps were equipped with



15
a stainless steel pumping column. This corrosion problem boosted the cost by about CFAF 100 million
owing to the need to equip about 400 projects with stainless steel piping, not provided for at the start of the
works.
63.           At the end of the project, the 628 boreholes are equipped with curbs and improved
surrounds. The curbs are 2 m long x I m wide and 0.2 m high. The dimensions of the improved areas,
originally 4 x 4 m and 1.3 m high, were later changed to 3 x 3 x 1.3 m. Two openings are made. The ground
is covered with concrete slabs. A cemented gutter carries spilled water to a drain pit.
G. Pumping devices and maintenance
64.           The pump used is the India Mali type. It is manufactured at Sikasso by the Malian
Maintenance Company (Entreprise Malienne de Maintenance--E AMAM). It offers the advantage that it is
manufactured locally, at a competitive price. The pump without delivery pipe and rod, costs CFAF 125,000.
From 1985 to 1987 the pumps and spare parts were supplied by the PIE company, which was responsible for
installation. PIE ran into serious difficulty in delivering the pumps on schedule, claiming that EMAMA was
unable to supply. Beginning with campaign 4 (October 1987), the CEP took over responsibility for delivery.
EMAMA has met. all orders by the prescribed date. The stock of pumps and spare parts is kept at the Kita
water works base. As of June 30, 1993 the parts stock was sufficient to meet maintenance needs for about
five years. While this represents a large amount of idle capital (over CFAF 30 million), it ensures proper
operation of the 628 pumps installed.
65.           A three-tier decentralized maintenance network has been set up. At the Kita base, the
responsibilities of the DNHE technician are to order the pumps and spare parts from the manufacturer,
EMAMA; supply the ODIPAC stores, repairmen and dealers every six months; check the stocks of these
stores and supervise the maintenance system; visit the repairmen, and hold meetings with pump officials. At
the repairman level, the artisans, who have taken compulsory refresher training courses, are required to deal
with pump breakdowns at the request of village officials. In exchange, the village pays for the parts,
remunerates the repairer in accordance with a prescribed scale, holds a stock of wearing parts and alerts the
Kita base (via the sector health-center radio) if a serious breakdown occurs such as, for example, loss of the
pump and piping, at the bottom of the borehole. At the village level, the water point committee is required to
hold meetings, take the training offered, keep accounts of the maintenance fund, collect and safeguard the
maintenance money, maintain the water point approaches, lubricate and service the pump head, alert the
rural artisan if a breakdown occurs, hold a stock of wearing parts, keep a pump log (breakdowns,
inspections, etc.) and help the artisan with the repair work. While the villages have not all met their
obligations equally well, the overall result is positive.
66.           Training sessions have been held for repairmen. They have attended training courses, at
either the Kita base or the Mahina ODIPAC, supplemented in the field by pump installation exercises; each
repairman has installed 10 to 15 and taken out three to five pumps. As a result, by the end of the training the
repairmen are able to repair and maintain India pumps and are familiar with the repair tariff and spare part
costs and procurement sources. They have been supplied with maintenance logs and manuals, stock cards
and. issue vouchers but because of illiteracy make little use of them. Fliers have been distributed in the
villages concemning spare part selling prices and repair rates. The training for village officials has not been
very detailed. In principle the installers train the villagers when the pump is being installed, the training thus
lasts two hours at most and is quite inadequate. During the installation process the villagers are informed
about how the pump works, where to find spare parts, repair costs and the repairnan's name and address.
Training of other villagers has been given partly by the village extension agent. It is difficult to retain the
benefits of villager training; it is common for the people trained to leave the village.



16
67.           While the maintenance system set up and the training provided have developed over the
course of this village water works program. they are not perfect and need to be improved in many wav's The
following general ideas should be borne in mind in any future project:
-      the training component for repairmen and village officials must not be neglected; it
is thev who sound the alarm when a problem arises,
the repairmen need to be well trained; they should be identified from among
craftsmen already established in the project area who have good mechanical
experience (bicycles and light motor cycles);
to ensure adequate remuneration for their work, each repairman should be
responsible for a minimum of 15 to 20 pumps;
while each repairmani will have a clearly-defined set-vice area, it is a good idea to
encourage competition so as to avoid any monopoly in pump servicing;
trainilng, of the repairmen should take place well in advance so that they can act on
their own and assume responsibility for their areas as soon as the pump is installed;
in this wav, each repairman's efficiency can be monitored over the life of the project;
-      each repairman should be equipped by the project with technical needs (tools),
logistical needs (spare parts) and possibly means of travel (light motor cycle);
-      local repairmen should take part in the installation of new pumps  in their
respective service areas;
-      work by repairmen on new pump installation should be remunerated by the project
in accordance with the prescribed service charge scale;
-      the service scale should be set by the program; it must be sufficiently high to
motivate them to continue in the work;
-      the equipment supplied to the repairman is expensive (light motor cycle CFAF
250,000, tools CFAF 400,000., paras CFAF 150,000). All this must be paid for in
part (25 percent of cost) by the repairman in accordance with criteria to be defined
(rebate of 10 percent of the prices of parts sold, with 5 percent of this going to
reimburse the project for the equipment).
68.           Spare parts supply could be entrusted to private firms in order to relieve the DNHE of the
expense of spare parts management. It would be a good idea to have a dealer carrying India Mali pumps and
parts in eachi district.
H. Ancillary activities
69.           Upon completion of the borehole program in June 1989, despite the additional campaign for
the Bafoulabe district, a residue of about SDR 1 million (CFAF 330 million) remained.



17
70.           The Project Unit (CEP) proposed a number of activities for use of these funds:
(1)    Pumping facility surveys in the northern part of Region 1.
(2)    Preparation of bid call documentation for the Kenieba works.
(3)    Supply of equipment for the Kayes DRHE.
(4)    Hydrochemical survey, Region 1.
(5)    Rehabilitationi of 50 pumps in the Kayes district.
(6)    Construction of 35 boreholes in the Kolokani district.
(7)    Water supply to the Bafoulabe hospital.
71.           Activities (1), (2), (3), (5) and (7) went ahead without hindrance. In contrast, activity (4)
was rejected by IDA and activity (6) could not be implemented owing to sluggishness on the part of the
Malian administration. Credit closure, originally scheduled for June 30, 1992, was deferred to June 30,
1993 at the request of the Ministry of Finance to enable the residue to be utilized.  Despite this
postponement, part of the activities approved by IDA could not be carried out for lack of time.
Surveys in Northern Region I
72.           A water points rehabilitation and new construction study was conducted from October 1989
to March 1990 to determine the precise status of water supply in the villages of the Kayes, Yelimane, Nioro
and Di&ma districts.
73.           The surveys lasted six months and covered 747 administrative villages. They yielded the
necessary data for a report describing fairly accurately the status of the existing modern water points. They
showed that there were eight different types of hand pumps in use simultaneously in the four districts. This
helps explain the poor functioning of all these pumps: it was impossible to obtain the necessary spare parts.
74.           The surveys revealed that about 600 pumps need to be rehabilitated and about 400 modem
water points built to be able to supply 40 percent of potable water needs. Raising this target to 60 percent of
needs increases the water points deficit to 1,500.
75.           The conclusions of this study served as the basis for execution of a first rehabilitation
program, covering 50 pumps, in the district of Kayes, financcd out of Credit SF 7, and preparatory work for
rehabilitation of a further 500 pumps. The bid call documents have been prepared and issued. The works
are being financed by Credit 2217-MLI.
Preparation of Kenieba Documentation
76.           As part of preparation for the borehole works to be carried out under the Rural Health,
Population and Water Works Project, the documentation for preselection of the drilling enterprises was
prepared, submitted to the pertinent authorities (DNHE, Water Works Department, DGMP, World Bank)
and accepted. The preselection analysis resulted in the selection of five drilling enterprises.



18
77.          Next, the bid call documentation for the borehole and pump installation works, was prepared
and accepted by the authorities.
78.          As a result of these bidding proceedings, the Chinese enterprise CGC was selected to execute
the scheduled 385 productive boreholes and the Malian enterprise SETRA to supply the equipment and
install the 385 pumps.
79.          Supply of the hand pumps was not included in the calls for bids. The Project Unit preferred
to charge the India Mali pumps to the villagers' contributions; all of Region I South is thus equipped with the
India Mali pump.
Rehabilitation of 50 Pumps
80.          Before embarking on any large-scale rehabilitation program, the Project Unit decided it CO
would be a good idea to conduct a smaller operation, covering a limited number of water points, in order to
identify the problems posed by works of this kind.
81.          A call for bids was prepared, approved by the pertinent authorities and issued in February
1992. Two enterprises responded, in April 1992. Following many difficulties, execution of the works was
entrusted to SETRA in March 1993 (i. e. 11 months after receipt of the bids), whereas closure of the Credit
was scheduled for June 30, 1993. SETRA demonstrated great determination, and changing of the Bodin and
Mono pumps was completed on June 30.
82.          Unfortunately, this operation, which was to serve as a pilot project, was conducted after the
call for bids for rehabilitation of 500 pumps was issued. As a result, the lessons learned from it were not
taken into account.
Water Supply for Bafoulabe Hospital
83.          A call for bids was prepared, approved by the authorities and issued in February 1992. A
single enterprise responded, in April 1992. After consultation with the authorities, a contract was concluded
by direct agreement with the Malian enterprise EMTH. The works, which comprised installation of an
immersed electric pump on the Hospital borehole, laying of 400 meters of piping and remaking of the water
tower, were carried out in January 1993 to the general satisfaction.
Kolokani Boreholes
84.          It had been decided to construct 35 boreholes at Kolokani, in Region 2. A call for bids was
prepared, approved by the pertinent authorities and issued in February 1992. Four enterprises (FORACO,
CHIC, SONAREM and FORAFRIQUE) responded, in April 1992. Following many difficulties connected
with analysis of the bids, pressure from bidders and lack of perceptivity on the part of some of them, the
World Bank decided in March 1993 (i. e. 11 months after receipt of the bids) that it would not now finance
this activity, the time remaining before the closure date (June 30, 1993) being insufficient for the works to be
executed efficiently.
85.          As a result, about SDR 600,000 could not be used and was lost to Mali whereas the
financing was already assured and all that was needed was a decision to execute the works.



19
I. Financial and administrative data
Financial Data
86.          The project was made possible by two World Bank/IDA credits (1431 -MLI and SF 7-MLI)
and the contributions made by the Government of Mali and the beneficiary populations.
The distribution is as follows:
Origin               Scheduled               Executed                Residue
SF 7 (SDR)                    6,000,000              5,418,958               581,042
143 1-MLI (SDR)               4,400,000              4,370,635                29,365
Mali (CFAF)                 370,900,000            387,438,048          See next table
87.          Mali's share comprises the Government's contribution, the village contributions, receipts
from the sale of spare parts and the financial proceeds of term deposits in Malian banks.
88.          The balance on the village participation-, account as at June 30, 1993 is made up as follows:
Bank                  Current                 Term                  Available
Account                Account                 Funds
BDRM SA (CFAF)                 919,874                      0                919,874
BMCD (CFAF)                 15,196,219              15,000,000             30,196,219
SCPCE (CFAF)                   960,930                      0                960,930
Kenieba Fund                14,116,450                      0              14,116,450
Total                       31,193,473              15,000,000             46,193,473
89.          Part of the receipts (234 quotas, i.e. CFAF 31,590,000) and expenditures (purchase of 350
India Mali pumps, i.e. CFAF 42,467,925) concerns works in progress at Kenieba. The same bank accounts
and fund were used.
90.          The activities concerning the first phase of the Kita and Bafoulabe works have been
completed. The unused balance of the World Bank credit is relatively large. Despite the efforts made by the
DNHE Project Chief, utilization of this residue was prevented by inertia on the part of various decision-
making (organs. The available Malian bank funds allow effective monitoring of the pumps installed.
Administrative Data
91.          In addition to the actual execution of the works, (boreholes and pump installation), a number
of ancillarv activities were conducted over the nine-year period (1984-93):
-    training of government staff;
-    financial audits;
-    mid-project evaluation;
-    visits by World Bank experts;



20
preparation of the second K6nieba component;
start-up of outreach/ex-tension work for the second component.
92.           The DNHE assigned a number of engineers and technicians to the Project Unit (CEP). They
all demonstrated good know-how and keenness to perform the tasks entrusted to them efficiently. The team
was retained almost entirclv unchanged for the second project. Thanks are extended here to all these staff.
93.           An audit was performed at the end of each campaign to certify the use of the funds. The
audits for campaigns 1, 2 and 3 were performed by the DIARRA firm of Bamako, and those for campaigns
4. 5 6-7 and 8 bv SARECI. also of Bamako. For all the campaigns, the auditors concluded that the funds
allocated to the project had been used properly, apart from FYs 1989 through 1991, when irregularities were
noted by the auditors and subsequently corrected.
94.           A mid-project evaluation of the project activities was performed in December 1986-January
1987. The evaluation served to correct a number of minor errors and continue the activities on a sound
basis; the outrcach/extension agents found the comments of the evaluation staff particularly helpful.
95.           Throughout the project, a representative of the World Bank regularly monitored the progress
of the activities through one or two visits per campaign. These meetings facilitated compliance with the
specifications requested by the Banik and contributed to the high quality of the works.  The Bank's
representatives were of great assistance to the project and merit our thanks.
96.           Preparation of the second component of the Kenieba and Bafoulabe activities took place
during January-June 1987. This preparatory work was done under a separate contract for CFAF 39 million
against Credit 1431 -MLI. A report was submitted to the Administration containing all the recommendations
for the second componcnt. The results of this report have served as the basis for execution of the 150
boreholes at Bafoulabe during campaign 5 and for the Kenieba activities under way since 1991.
97.           Credit 2217, relating to the Kenicba wvorks, became effective in March 1992. The Kenieba
outreach/extension work. which had to be done six months in advance of borehole construction, began in
October 199 1. The Bank agreed to finance star-up of the extension work and borehole location studies
using the residue of Credits SF 7/1431. This wise decision made it possible to prepare a sufficient number of
villages (outreach/extension, collection of quotas and geophysics work) to provide a base of active support
for the drilling and pump installation enterprises as soon as they arrived in April 1992. When Credit 2217
cntered into effect the activities were continued with financing from that source.
J. General conclusion
98.           The village water works program, financed by the World Bank through Credits 143 I-MLI
and SF 7-MLI and managed by the National Directorate of Water Resources and Energy (DNHE), brought
potable water supplv to 400 villages and hamlets, with a total of about 228,000 inhabitants, in the districts of
Kita and Bafoulabe in Mali's Region 1.
99.           A multi-tier maintenance system was set up and monitored throughout the project. Pump
maintenance and spare parts supply are provided by more than 50 artisans and 30 stores. Parts supply has
been progressively transferred to the private sector, which is in turn supplied by either the DNHE base at
Kita (which has a spare parts stock of about CFAF 30 million) or dealers in Bamako.



21
100.         It can truthfully be said that the pumps in these two districts have an in-service rate above
the national average. The people are by and large part conscious of the improvement in well being that
comes from having a modem water point in the village and are making themselves responsible for proper
functioning- of the pump.
101.         The small communities (under 400 inhabitants) maintain their water point in an exemplary
manner, with 100 percent solidarity and sharing of responsibilities.  In contrast, in the large centers,
particularly along the Kaves-Bamako railway, the inhabitants do not look after the pumping gear. repair of
which is beset by many difficulties. Thus, the people do not assume this responsibility in the larger centers.
Village water supply based on1 the handpump is not an adequate response to the water problem in these rural
centers.
102.         Execution of site location studies, borehole drilling and pump installation proceeded without
hindrance. Each of the enterprises involved produced work of good quality and helped the project to achieve
its objectives.
103.         However, use of the residual resources of Credits SF 7- and 143 1-MLI posed a number of
problems which it was not possible to resolve. As a result, about SDR 610,000 was not disbursed. This
sum would have sufficed, for example, to execute 50 boreholes equipped with hand pumps. The 9 percent
interest that could have been eamed by depositing part of this money in term accounts in Mali would have
defrayed the operating expenses of a maintenance team (personnel, equipment and parts) in Region I almost
indefinitely.
104.         Because of the know-how acquired by the DNHE staff that participated in the work, the
second Bafoulabe and Kenieba water works project (Rural Water Works component of the PSPHR financed
by Credit 221 7-MLI) can be executed with reduced extemal intervention.
105.         In conclusion, the World Bank financing fully achieved its objectives through the supply of
good quality water in adequate quantity to population groups that previously lacked it.



2.2
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES, BY FINANCING SOURCE
I           DAIE             |      EXPENDIT                  SF7                 1431-NMUL              MAAU
In Hjnd             07/31189                     ,                              __                                   127,113,876
E3e3ioures         07/31/89                    4,0.45,772.444          2,112,400,000         1,6SS,l00,00O          245,272.444
Supply of pal and India pumpr; operrtion of Kita bae
0S,0 :89-07.3 191             51.895.020                                                         51,895,020
08/01!91-06/30/93             27,429,936                                                         27.429,936
79,324.956_                                                       79,324.956
Stdice, Audit*
SARECI              10/16/89                       1.5850                                            1,000
DIW/I               12131/90                       5,769.250                                                          5,769.250
SARECI             02/10/92                        2,200,000              21200.000
SARECI              02/10/93                      12400.000               12400.000
10 954,250              3,600,000             1,585,000            5,769.250
Supplaent.Lry works
DTl                10/31/89                      17.149.500                                     17.149,500
DIWI                I 1/30/89                      9.716.364                                     9,716.364
DIU/                12/31/89                       9.960,161                                     9.960,161
DIV/I               01/31/90                       9,453.626                                     9,453,626
D3IV                02128S90                       9.274,375                                     9.274.375
DIUI                03/31/90                       12,677,047                                   12,677,047
DIUI                03.31.90                       4.160,159                                     4,160.159
DIMI               06130/91                        35,975,000                                   15,975.000
hft1{               02110/93                       32,837,735             12.837,735
SETRA               06/30.93                      62.982.580              62.982.580
_  164,186,547             75,820,315             88,366232                  0
Second Project, atsrt-up, K&I&a
D3IV                12/31!91                      31,966,350              31.966,350
DIUI                12/31191                      23,S62,024              23,862,024
DIMI                03131,92                       9,93S,425              9.938,425
65,766,799             65,766,799
Purchaw of 300 pumps, K&xieba
42,467,925                                                         42,467,925
42,467,925                                                         42,467,925
TOTAL I            06130/93                       362,700A77             145,187.114            89,951,232           127,562,131
GRANTD TOTAL                                    4,408,472,921           2,1578597.114         1,778,051,232          372,34,575
PRu)ECT COST                                    4,437-500.000                     _         .                     3
Receipts, 07/89106/93
Sale of spare par and inter  89-91                                                                                    4.434.218
Sale of spare pat and intreat 91-92                                                                                   6.900.574
Sale of pr.- pat and interest 92-93                                                                                   3.716,936
234 village quotas ('ra6ip&tiocnu)                                                                                   31.590.000
_4i,641,728
REC APITUlATION                                                   Receipts                  |pe-aditum
Mali share                                      372.386,320Receips, Kita                      330.366,650 ExndLu Kits
Villages, Khidb| 31.590,(000 Recipts, Kdi&b                                                    42.467.925 Fdits Kdnida
Spare parts/nterest                              15,051.728 Receipts, Kit!
Total for Mali                                  419,028.048                                   372,834,575
Residue, Mali, 06130/93                          46,193,473



23
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related IDA Credits
Credit             FPurpose          Year of Approval           Status             Comments
Cr. 1282-MLI         Reiniforcement of           7/6/82        Closed on 12/31/88    PCR rating was
Power and Water      power lacilities and                                            unsatisfactor%
Project             xN ater master plan
_________   _ for Bamako
Cr. 1422-ML.         Programl of primary        12/6/83        Closed on 9/30/91     PCR rating ssas
Health Development  health care and                                                  unsatisfaclory
Project              constniclion of 21
lhcaltlh faicilities ill
wvesterin Mali
Cr. 2217-MLI         Construlction of 141       3/19/91        On-going
Second Health.      lhealth centers and
Population and Rural  389 Nsaier points
Water Supply Project  z ith siupply of iodine
modules in districts
ol'Kila. Baloulabe
and Kcniieba      _                     _
B. Project Timetable
Phase in Project Cycle         Planned Date              Revised Date                Actual Date
Identification         _   __           _             __                                 02/81
Prcparation                ____          __________   _    _,___ ___. _____ 06/80-03/82
Pre-appraisal _______                                 ___                                07/82
Appraisal                ___ .___             _            _                             10/82
Negotiations                                                                             10/83
Board Approval                                                                          12/20/83
Credit Signature       _                                                               01/23/84
Effectiveness           1         04/23/84                   07/22/84                  06/26/84 ___-
Project Completion      1         12/31/91                                             06/30/92
Credit Closing    _       ____   _06/30/92             _     06/30/93                 (06/30/93



24
C. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (USSmillion)
WB FY & Quarter             SAR Estimates           Actual         % Disbursed           Africa Profile
FY84   March 31. 1984           0.00                 0.00               0.00              0.00
June 30, 1984            1.18                0.35              3.18               0.(0
FY85   Sept. 30, 1984            1.41                0.42               3.88              0.16
Dec. 31, 1984            1.65                0.60              5.51               0.33
March 31, 1985          1.98                 1.46               13.34             0.49
June 30, 1985           2.31                 1.89               17.34             0.65
FY86   Sept. 30, 1985           2.90                 2.21              20.26              1.09
Dec. 31, 1985           3.15                 2.50              22.89              1.53
March 31, 1986          3.62                 3.05              27.94              1.96
June 30, 1986           4.09                 3.77              34.57              2.40
FY87   Sept. 30, 1986           4.52                 4.21              38.56              3.05
Dec. 31, 1986           4.96                 4.43              40.60              3.71
March 31, 1987          5.38                 4.90              44.90              4.36
June 30, 1987           5.80                 5.64              51.72              5.02
FY88   Sept. 30, 1987           6.18                 6.17              56.58              5.46
Dec. 31, 1987           6.56                 6.32              57.92              5.89
March 31, 1988          6.91                 7.37              67.59              6.55
June 30, 1988           7.27                 8.22              75.31              7.20
FY89   Sept. 30, 1988           7.60                 8.63              79.08              7.86
Dec. 31, 1988           7.94                 9.10              83.44              8.51
March 31, 1989          8.40                 9.81              89.88              8.95
June 30, 1989           8.85                 10.43             95.62              9.38
FY90   Sept. 30, 1989           8.96                 10.43             95.62              9.60
Dec. 31, 1989           9.07                 11.03              101.06            9.82
March 31, 1990          9.32                 11.03              101.06            10.04
June 30, 1990           9.56                 11.28             103.37             10.26
FY91   Sept.30, 1990            9.77                 11.29              103.52            10.47
Dec. 31, 1990           9.98                 11.29             103.52             10.69
March 31, 1991           10.16               11.29             103.52             10.80
June 30, 1991           10.34                11.29             103.52             10.91
FY92   Sept. 30, 1991            10.50               11.35              104.01            10.91
Dec. 31, 1991           10.66                11.35             104.01             10.91
March 31, 1992           10.78               11.59             106.21             10.91
June 30, 1992           10.91                11.59             106.21             10.91
FY93   Sept.30, 1992             10.91               11.60              106.29            10.91
Dee.31, 1992            10.91                11.60             106.29             10.91
March 31, 1993          10.91                11.60             106.29             10.91
June 30, 1993           10.91                11.79             108.03             10.91
FY94   Sept. 30, 1993            10.91               11.88              108.86            10.91



25
DISBURSEMENTS
1 2                                  .      . . ... . . . . . .
.:-   ..-   .......  ..:   . . . .,..... ..-. ......:                      :
1 0
0 8  -   ;   -   ....  ;  ;  ; ; .... |-+  SAR Estimates
........  --------------  .......----------    ----                  U------A  ctu a l
Xn                                 -.: ---:--                             .        ....                 -:       Africa  Profile
v 4 ;-.a-r   
2 L,l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 . .. . .  .         .   .   ;.;.;.;.i
i  -    s k~~    ~~. .. ..--- - . - '-'- - ..... --..          ..   ...    ....
-O   C)  (0   O   CN  u) X                           '            N-
Qu          s   N       N      )    C)    C)
Quarters



26
D. Project implementation
lInplementation Schedule
YEARS        1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992  1993
Drilling Campaigns                     .                .
District of Kita             ,,,,,,  ** **        *  *** *  ***
Districts of
Bafoulabe & Kenieba                  **                       ,**   **
Supply of Handpumps          ....            ---_
and Installation             ,,,,,,   ,,,,,*   *** *  *** *  *** *  ***
Construction of
Kita Base                      ***   ***
Additional Activities                                                   **   ******  ******  *
Technical Assistance
Hydrogeologist senior
*** ****** ****** ****** ****** ***
Geophysicist                                          -
** ****** ****** ****** ***
Hydrogeologist junior
** ****** ****** ***
Mid-project Review
,,**   *
Preparation 2nd Project
,,,   ***       ~**   ** **   **
Project Management                        _
,,*** ****** ****** ****** ****** ****** **
LEGEND:          Appraisal
Estimate                    Actual
Preparation                 Preparation
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............ .....
Construction                Construction
**-**-*-*-*



27
E Project Costs and Financing
1. Project Costs (CFAF million)
Component                   SAR Estimate            Actual Total             Difference
Drilling of Boreholcs                 2,373.6                 2,296.1                    77.5
Handpumps                               302.1                   602.0                  -299.9
Project Prep. (PPF)                     165.0                   165.0        _              0
Kita Base Construction                  298.5                   15 1.6                  146.9
Technical Assistance                    827.2                   924.3                   -97.1
Prep. 2nd Projcct                       147.4                   105.4                    42.0
Additional Works                        323.7                   164.2         __        159.5
TOTAL                                 4,437.5                 4,408.5                    29.0
2. Project Financing (CFAF million)
Initial Budget            Actual                  Balance
IDA Cr. 143 1-MLI                      1,735.0                1,778.0                     43
IDA Cr. SF-7-MLI                      2,332.5                 2.257.6  _         _       74.9
Government of-Mali                      325.0                   294.1                    30.9
Beneficiaries                            45.0                    78.8                   -33.8
TOTAL                                 4,437.5                 4,408.5                    29.0
N.B. The beneficiaries really contributed CFAF 83.295 million, but a palt
of this amount is still in bank accounts for use under the second project.



28
3. Credit Allocation (in SDRs)
a. Credit 143 1-MLI
Category      Estimate    Revised (7/84)  Revised (6/89)    Actual    Balance
1. Civil Works
a. Boreholes            0              0              0           0             0
b. Construction         0        600,000        320,000   319,531.35       468.65
Kita Base
2. Equipment        700.000        700,000      1.200.000  1,199,172.06      827.94
3. Consultant      2.100.000     2,100,000      2,535,000  2,507,077.38   27,922.62
Services, Studies
4. Refunding PPF    950.000        350,000        345.000   344,854.48       145.52
5. Unallocated      650.000        650,000             0                         0
TOTAL              4,400,000     4,400,000      4,400,000  4,370,635.27   29,364.73
b. Credit SF-7-MLI
Category         Estimate        Revised (6/89)      Actual           Balance
1. Civil Works          5.100.000         5,000,000      5,043,614.33       (43,614.33)
2. Equipment                    0           250,000        277,039.97       (27,039.97)
3. Consultant                   0           550,000         98,302.98       451.697.02
Services. Studies
4. Unallocated            900,000           200,000                            200,000
TOTAL                    6,000,000        6.000,000      5.418.957.28        581.042.72



29
F. Project Results
1. Development Objectives: Monitoring Indicators
Component               Objective                Actual                Rate (%)
Drilling of Boreholes
Kita District
no. of boreholes               750                    678                    90.40
productive boreholes           325                    460                    141.54
Success Rate (%)                50                     69                     138
Bafoulabe & Kenieba
no. of boreholes               45                     229                   508.89
productive boreholes           15                     168                    1120
Success Rate (%)                33                     70                    212.12
Hand Pumps                      355                     630                   177.46
Population Served              110,000                228,000                 207.27
2. Depth of Boreholes
Depth                Productive              Negative            Success Rate (%)
0-45m                            92                      7                      93
45-55m                          160                     11                      94
55-65m                          145                     23                      86
65-75m                          171                     131                     57
75-85m                           28                     19                      60
85-95m                           29                     29                      50
more than 95m                    4                      59                      6
Average: 65.7m                 60.6m                   77m
3. Production Capacitv of Boreholes
I borehole has a capacity superior to 100 m3/h
21 % of boreholes has a capacity of more than 10 m3/h
29% of boreholes has a capacity between 4 and 10 m3/h
44% of boreholes has a capacity between I and 4 m3/h
6% of boreholes has a capacity between 0.7 and I m3/h
4. Economic Rate of RetLrn
No economic rate of return was calculated in the SAR since benefits accrued from the project, including
mainly the improvement of health and living standards of the rural populations involved, are largely
unquantifiable.



30
5. Studies
a.    Final design of the Rural Water Supply Project                         Completed in January 1983
b.    Technical assistance for the supervision of works                      From 08/84 to 03/90
c.    Preparation of a Water Supply Project in Bafoulabe and Kenieba districts    Completed in June 1987
d.    Provision of a sociologist for a sensitization campaign                From 10/85 to 06/87
e.    Mid-term review                                                        From 12/86 to 02/87
f.   Institutional study for the rural water sub-sector                      Not carried out
G. Status of Covenants of Credit Agreements
Section            Description of Covenant           Compliance                  Comments
3.01.b.i    Government to open a Project Account (PA)    met         done
3.01.c.i   Deposit into PA CFA 10 million for opening    met         done
Deposit into PA CFA 45 million by 08/31/84    met         CFA 7.5 M deposited + tax exoneration
Deposit into PA CFA 55 million by 08/31/85    met         CFA 57.5 M were deposited
Deposit into PA CFA 75 million by 08/31/86    met         CFA 80 M were deposited
Deposit into PA CFA 95 million by 08/31/87    partially met    CFA 45 M were deposited
Deposit into PA CFA 45 million by 08/31/88    met         CFA 95 M were deposited
3.02      Employment of consultants acceptable to IDA    met         contract signed in August 1984 and work
!_________ ___________________________________________               carried out satisfactorily
3.04.b    Prepare and submit progress reports        met             done regularly
3.06     Sibmit budget for each drilling campaign    met             done until the end of drilling in 1989
3.07      DNHE to enter into arrangement with ODIPA   met            done
and DNAFLA to set up operational support
3.08      DNHE to enter into arangenients with       met             excellent participation of villagers
participating villages                                    obtained: 135,000 CFAF paid by water
point
3.09.a    NDHE to employ consultant to prepare 4th   met             study carried out in Dec. 1986
drilling campaign
3.09.b    Submit to IDA proposal for 4th drilling    met             done on time
campaign
4.0(l.b.ii  Submit to IDA audit reports of project   met             audits of all five drilling cammpaigns
accounts after each drilling campaign                     received



31
H. USE OF IDA RESOURCES
1. Staff Inputs (staff-weeks)
Year         LENP           LENA          LENN           SPN            PCR         TOTAL
1980                  12.2                                                                    12.2
1981                   8.7                                                                     8.7
1982                  11.8                                                                    11.8
1983                   9.7          29.6                                                      39.3
1984                                 4.2            5.9           4.4                         14.5
1985                                                              7.1                          7.1
1986                                                              6.0                          6.0
1987                                                             152152_  _  12     _1
1988         X        =    _                                      __12.2  _ X  XX          _12.2 _
1989                                -     -                       5.1                          5.1
1990                                                              9.7                          9.7
1991                                                              9.4                          9.4
1992                                                              7.3                          7.3
1993                                                              1.0                          1.0
1994                                                              0.3            5.0           5.3
TOTAL                 42.4           33.8           5.9          77.7            5.0         164.8



32
2. Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/Year       Days in          No. of            Specilizations
Field          Persons            Represented
Identification             02/80             14               4         E,I,F,S
Preparation 1              06/80             24               4         E,l.F,S
Preparation 2              09/80             3                2         E.I
Preparation 3              03/81             4                2         EJ
Preparation 4              06/81             10               1         E
Preparation 5              03/82             4                1         E
Pre-appraisal              07/82             11               4         E,I,F,F
Appraisal                   10/82            21               3         E,I,F
Supervision 1               12/83            7                2         E,l
Supervision 2              07/84             8                2         E,I
Supervision 3              02/85             8                3         E,I,I
Supervision 4               11/85            13               1         I
Supervision 5              04/86             14               2         I,F
Supervision 6               10/86            15               1         I
Supervision 7              03/87             12               2         1,F
Supervision 8              07/87             8                1         I
Supervision 9               11/87            12               2         I,F
Supervision 10             03/88             11               2         F,I
Supervision 11             02/89             13               1         I
Supervision 12             06/90             14               3         F,I,I
Supervision 13             07/91             6                1         F
Supervision 14             02/92             9                1         1
Completion                  10/93            7                1         I
Total davs on mission                       248
Kev to Specializations
E = Economist
F = Financial Analyst
I= Engineer
S = Sociologist






IMAGING
Report No:       15148
Type: PCR



