i ' _ 1PECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-7 MLI
DOCUMENTS
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                         3   , 1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NU9BER SF-7 MLI
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ,                23     , 1984, between
REPUBLIC  OF MALI   (the  Borrower      Mali) and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Fund
established with funds contributed by certain members of the
International Development Association.
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount  equivalent   to  four   million  four   hundred  thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000) (hereinafter called the
IDA Credit); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) The term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means    the  International  Development  Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement.
(b) The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively.
(c) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted.
(d) In Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund.
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Fund referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement.
(c) "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles.
(d) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA.


﻿-3-
(e) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as made applicable to
such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(f) "DNHE" means Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de
1'Energie, of   the  Borrower's Ministare de 1'Etat Charg6 de
1'Equipement.
(g) "ODIPAC" means the Borrower's Office de D6veloppement
Int4grd des Production Arachidieres et CAr6aliares, organized and
operating pursuant to Law No. 81-09 AN-RM of the Borrower dated
February 9, 1983 and the Borrower's Decree No. 88 PG-RM dated
February 9, 1983, both published in the Official Gazette of Mali
No. 703, dated October 12, 1983.
(h) "DNAFLA"     means    the   Direction    Nationale    de
l'Alphabgtisation Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique Appliqu6e,
of the Borrower's Ministry of Education.
(i) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(j) "Mali Franc" and     "MF" mean    the  currency of the
Borrower.
(k) "Drilling Campaign" means a campaign of waterpoint
drilling activities under the Project during a period of nine
months between October and June of each year.
(1) "Participating Village" means a village fulfilling the
conditions of financial and administrative participation in the
construction, operation   and   maintenance  of  the  waterpoints
included in the Project, as defined in arrangements entered into
between DNHE and a given village located in the District of
either Kita or Bafoulabg or Knigba.
(m) "District" means Cercle, the Borrower's territorial
subdivision.
(n) "BDN" means Banque de D6veloppement du Mali.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in
paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date
of this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.


﻿-5-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually    on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15,
1994 and ending August 15, 2033, each installment to and
including the installment payable on August 15, 2003, to be
one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DNHE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial,  public  utility
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section the Borrower shall: (i) open and, thereafter,
maintain a Project Account in MF at BDM on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Administrator; and (ii) allocate for its
fiscal year 1984 an amount of MF 110,000,000.


﻿- 6 -
(c) The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account:
(i) an amount of MF 650,000,000 to be paid in six installments.
The first installment of MF 20,000,000 shall be deposited into
the Project Account at the time of its establishment. The
remaining five installments of MF 90,000,000, MF 110,000,000,
MF 150,000,000, MF 190,000,000, and MF 90,000,000 shall be
deposited into the Project Account not later than August 31,
1984, August 31, 1985, August 31, 1986, August 31, 1987 and
August 31, 1988, respectively; and (ii) the proceeds of the
financial contribution by the Participating Village referred to
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Administrator, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The BGrrower shall furnish to the Admini-
strator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, repor-s, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their use in the


﻿- 7 -
Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals
all such information as the Administrator shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Fund Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, the Administrator may publish a descrip-
tion thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Administrator of their respective obligations under
the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Fund Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Administrator that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared and shall furnish to the Administrator, not later than
three months before the beginning of each Drilling Campaign,
a budget satisfactory to the Administrator for the upcoming
Drilling Campaign.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause DNHE to enter, no
later than April 1, 1984, into arrangements satisfactory to the


﻿- 8 -
Administrator with ODIPAC and DNAFLA to set up operational
support for the Project execution.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DNHE to enter, prior
to the drilling of each waterpoint included in Part A of the
Project, into arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator
with each Participating Village, in order to define, inter alia,
the financial contribution of each of the Participating Villages
to the construction of the waterpoints included in Part A of the
Project and to the operation and maintenance of the pumps
included in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause DNHE, during the
third Drilling Campaign, to employ an independent consultant to
carry out an evaluation of the activities to be included in the
fourth Drilling Campaign, it being understood that such consul-
tant shall be employed as provided in Section 3.02 hereof.
(b) The Borrower shall, three (3) months before the end of
the third Drilling Campaign, submit to the Administrator for its
review and approval the program of activities to be included in
the fourth Drilling Campaign, as proposed by the independent
consultant.
(c) Promptly upon receipt of the Administrator's approval,
t.he Borrower shall cause DNHE to take all appropriate and
necessary action to initiate the forth Drilling Campaign, taking
into account the conditions (if any) placed by the Administrator
on its approval.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
each Drilling Campaign audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors


﻿acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Adminis-
trator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such Drilling Campaign, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other
information concerning said accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, installations and facilities constructed,
improved, equipped or otherwise assisted under the Project in
accordance with appropriate administrative and technical prac-
tices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the pirpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, loan or credit (including the IDA
Credit) made to the Borrower for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan or credit (including the IDA Credit)
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) The Borrower has, for the Project, allocated for its
fiscal year 1984 an amount of MF 110,000,000;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c) the Project Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and the
Borrower has deposited MF 20,000,000 therein; and
(d) the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement have been employed in accordance with the provisions of
such Section.
Section 6.02. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Sectiua 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Special Fund Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund


﻿- 11 -
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist8re des Finances
Bamako
R6publique du Mali
Cable address:                  Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       972559
Bamako
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
C
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              5,100,000           92%
(2) Equipment                     -              100%
(3) Consultants'                 -               100%
services and
studies
(4) Unallocated                900,000
TOTAL              6,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower   on  goods   or  services,   or  on   the   importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
Category decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such Category as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph I above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator my, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving living and sanitary conditions of the rural population
in the Districts of Kita, Bafoulab6 and Knifba.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
?art A:
Construction of at least 325 waterpoints in the District of
(ita during Drilling Campaigns and construction of about 15
waterpoints during the first Drilling Campaign in the villages in
the Districts of Bafoulab6 and Knifba, all contingent upon
achieving a success rate of at least 50%.
Part B:
Acquisition and installation of about 355 handpumps, and
possibly acquisition and installation of other types of pumps.
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance to DNHE for 'the management
of the Project and for the carrying out of a geophysical survey
for well siting and promotional activities at the village level,
including the acquisition by the consultants of vehicles and
office equipment for the operation of DNHE's field unit in Kita.
Part D:
Carrying out of studies to prepare a follow-up project in
the Districts of Bafoulabg and Knifba.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 16 -
SCEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in S3ection
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in March 1977 (July 1980 edition) (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligi-
bility restrictions shall be stated in the tender or prequali-
fication documents for the procurement of such goods and civil
works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery


﻿- 17 -
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
inciuded.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
l.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Fund Credit Account in
respect of such contract.


﻿- 18 -
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the  al of the Association
thereunto the <T- day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


