Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13742
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 3306-JO)
DECEMBER 1, 1994
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Division
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 15, 1994)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$1                     =   0.70 JD
JD 1                     =   1.42857 US$
1 Swedish Kronor (SK)    =  0.09 JD   =  0.129 US$
1 Swiss Franc (SF)      =   0.49 JD   =   0.699 US$
1 Canadian Dollar (C$)    =   0.51 JD   =   0.724 US$
1 Luxembourg Franc (LUF) =  0.020 JD  =  0.029 US$
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mcm/yr = million cubic meters per year
ABBREVIATIONS
ERP           =     Emergency Recovery Project (project)
ICB           =     International Competitive Bidding
IMF           =     International Monetary Fund
JCCC          =     Jordan Commercial Centers Corporation (now JEDCO)
JEDCO         =     Jordan Export Development & Commercial Centers Corporation
MDA           =     Market Development Assistance (unit / program at JEDCO)
MOH           =     Ministry of Health
MOP          =      Ministry of Planning
MOPW          =     Ministry of Public Works
MOS           =     Ministry of Supply
PIU           =     Project Implementation Unit, MOP
PTC           =     Public Transport Corporation
TA            =     Technical Assistance
WAJ           =     Water Authority of Jordan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



THE WORLD BANK           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evduation
December 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jordan
Emergency Recovery Project (Loan 3306-JO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jordan-Emergency Recovery Project (Loan
3306-JO) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part n was prepared by the
Borrower.
The project was part of a multi-donor program to help meet the basic needs of nearly
400,000 Jordanians who returned to their country during the 1990-1991 Gulf War. The Bank helped the
Borrower prioritize areas of assistance, secure funding from Canada, Luxembourg, Sweden and
Switzerland, and coordinate program activities.
The project was successfully implemented and disbursed within the expected time. Factors
contributing to the quality and timeliness of implementation included: strong government commitment;
implementing agencies familiar with Bank procedures; a simple, flexible design which allowed funding
shifts across five core and four supplemental components; clear indicators and implementation plans; early
advice on procurement; strong Bank supervision; and excellent cooperation across donors and government
agencies.
The project achieved its immediate objectives of meeting incremental demand for social
services and physical infrastructure, and creating jobs. It helped line agencies strengthen their ability to
implement multi-donor efforts. Several measures also increased the capacity of the private sector to
provide public transportation and increase exports, thus establishing a solid basis for sustainable
improvements. The project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory, institutional development as
substantial and sustainability as likely.
The PCR provides a detailed review of implementation and an excellent discussion of lessons
learned. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface  ................................  i
Evaluation summary ................................. iii
I   Project Review From Bank's Perspective
Project Identity  ............................  1
Background .............................1
Project Objectives and Description  .......................... 2
Project Design and Organization ............................ 3
Project Implementation and Results .......................... 5
Overall Implementation ............................                         5
Social Sectors  ............................ 6
Infrastructure Sectors ............................. 7
The Expanded Project ............................. 8
Project Risks ............................  11
Project Supervision ............................. 12
Impact and Sustainability  ............................    13
Bank and Borrower Performance  ..........................  14
Findings and Lessons Learnt ............................   15
2  Project Review From Borrower's Perspective .17
3   Statistical Information
Project Data .24
Project Timetable .24
Loan Disbursements ................................. 25
Project Costs and Financing Plan  ..........................   26
Staff Inputs ............................  27
Field Mission Dates ............................. 28
Compliance with Covenants ............................   29
Attachments
I Key Indicators ................................. 31
2   Emergency Recovery Project, 1991-1993 ..................... 34
3  Comments of Cofinanciers .........  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PREFACE
1.             This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for an Emergency Recovery Project in
Jordan for which Loan 3306-JO in the amount of US$10.0 million was approved on March 21, 1991.
In addition, the Bank administered the equivalent of US$60 million in cofinancing from the
Governments of Canada (C$10 million), Luxembourg (LUF40 million), Sweden (SK60 million) and
Switzerland (US$40 million).1 The loan was closed on October 31, 1993, as scheduled; it was fully
disbursed with the last disbursement on December 28, 1993. Final withdrawals under agreements
with Luxembourg, Canada, Sweden and Switzerland were authorized on October 30, 1992,
July 23, 1992, June 23, 1993 and April 30, 1994 respectively.
2.             The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of Country Department
II, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), based on
the Memorandum of the President (Report No: P-5469-JO), loan documents, study of the project files
as well as the findings of a project completion mission to Jordan in December, 1993. The draft PCR
(Parts I and  o) was sent to the Borrower and cofinanciers on June 7, 1994 and comments received
by them have been incorporated in the report. The Borrower submitted an assessment which has been
incorporated as Part II.
./ Initial conuributions, totalling an equivalent of US$43.6 million, together with the Bank loan of US$10 million as well u
$6.4 million equivalent from the Government of Jordan, matched the initial project cost cstimatd at US$60 million.
Additional US$15 million financing made available from Government of Switzerland latcr enabled the project cost to be
raised. Upon completion, the Bank loan and grant contributions were fully utilized along with the Government expenditure
equivalent of SUSS.6 million, bringing the actual project cost to US$75.2 million.






Hii
EVALUATION SUMIARY
Introduction
1.           The attached Project Completion Report reviews the implementation experience of an
Emergency Recovery Project (project) designed to assist the Government of Jordan to provide for the
emergency basic needs of nearly 400,000 Jordanians who returned unexpectedly from the neighboring Gulf
states during the 1990-91 Gulf war. The project assisted the Goverrument of Jordan to quickly deliver critical
social service and infrastructure needs of returning Jordanians and help integrate them into the economy by
creating jobs associated with project expenditures.
2.           Jordan was the most seriously affected front-line country involved in the Gulf crisis and its
financial costs were steep - an estimated US$1 billion in 1990 and US$2.4 billion in 1991, as much as 30 and
60 percent of the GDP of the respective years. Given the higher fiscal outlays needed on account of returnees,
the 1991 budgetary deficit was estimated at about US$770 million equivalent, compared to US$720 million in
1990. In addition, productive sector outputs were facing severe declines as a result of, among others, lost
export markets. The combination of declining output and massive returnee influx nearly doubled the already
high levels of joblessness and providing essential social services for returnees began severely taxing an already
burdened public sector.
3.           By late 1990, Government had to hire teachers and classroom facilities to cope with an
additional 42,000 returnee children enrolled in the school system; medical supplies, already exhausted by the
earlier influx of about 800,000 third-country refugees that passed through Jordan, needed to be replenished and
intensive maintenance of hospital and medical facilities became critical. The returnees not only demanded more
from an already over-pumped water supply system, but also from the transport infrastructure which was
heavily damaged by a peak load of 3,000 vehicles per day as a result of refugee traffic. A third of the aging
bus fleet of the Public Transport Corporation had been written off as result of damage incurred in serving the
refugee reception camps.
4.           The response of the donor community to Jordan's crisis related needs was coordinated by the
Gulf Crisis Financial Coordination Committee to which the Bank provided technical assistance. A Bank
mission visited Jorao.n in November 1990 and helped prepare the Government's Emergency Response Program
(program). The program cost US$235 million and included nine high priority areas of assistance for returnees
- health, education, water, roads, public transport, exports, food, raw materials and loan guarantees.
5.           The Bank further identified five key areas among the nine, which could be implemented readily
over a two-year period, with the available financing. These components, addressing health, education, water,
roads and public transport needs costing an equivalent of US$60 million (and financed by the US$10 million
Bank loan, US$43.6 million cofinancing, and US$6.4 million government contribution) constituted the
Emergency Recovery Project as presented to the Board in March, 1991. The other four areas would constitute
the expanded project, should additional financing become available. After being declared effective, additional
financing of US$15 million was firmed up; US$5 million fully financed technical assistance for developing
exports to newer markets, and the remaining US$10 million helped start the imports of essential food and raw
materials. The last of the nine components, a loan guarantee trust fund scheme, was not implemented.



iv
Implementation Experience
6.           Overall project implementation was excellent. Project start-up was accelerated by expediting
procurement, after which, its implementation was continuously monitored with the help of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). A joint mid-term review was held with donors in Amman during March 1992 to
identify any corrections needed during implementation. The project was completed as scheduled, within twenty
eight months of effectiveness. It fully utilized the cofinancing and disbursed funds as rapidly as scheduled.
7.           The social sector assistance, needed most pressingly, was quickly implemented. By January
1991, teachers and health care staff were already on their jobs (some salaries were financed retroactively) and
contracts for school and medical facilities maintenance were quickly executed. The relatively problem-free
performance of contractors was supervised by the relevant Ministry staff as well as the PIU until completion in
June 1993. All supplies for these two components were delivered as planned by September 1992.
8.           Under other sectors, procurement by the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ) followed all Bank
procedures but additional supervision was needed because of complaints by some unsuccessful bidders. The
associated civil works utilized WAJ's force account; but road repairs were implemented under three contracts
as planned and were completed as scheduled, in spite of adverse weather. Procurement of essential raw
materials, sugar and spare parts for the Public Transport Corporation (PTC) was relatively simple and problem
free. Recruiting the first technical assistance (TA) team for export development required extensive Bank staff
inputs; subsequent contracts were implemented with decreasing supervision as the Jordan Export Development
Corporation (JEDCO) familiarized itself with Bank procedures.
9.           Project supervision was intensive and continuous. Over 60 staff weeks were spent, and eight
missions were carried out over a two year period. As the social sector components neared completion and road
works began, supervision focus was redirected towards finalizing the water supply equipment procurement and
for initiating the export component. Reallocations from public transport to the health components; from water
to the essential raw materials components, and the resulting rapid disbursements (over 50 percent by first year
end) confirmed that funds were being used expeditiously to meet returnee needs. The mid-term project
implementation review reaffirmed that the project was well on course of realizing its objectives, especially due
to the commitment of the Government.
10.          After the mid-term review, supervision focussed largely on the export component, which
included (a) the Marketing Development Assistance (MDA) program at JEDCO that developed its outreach to,
and in turn, the trust of, the private sector exporters; and (b) TA and cash grants provided to firms and
selected Jordanian private sector organizations which helped to generate high quality exports. Initial
supervision emphasized the private sector orientation of JEDCO; later the Market Development Assistance
(MDA) business plan was supervised to help focus on firm level requirements of TA; finally technical
specialists of the Bank ensured that TA outcomes were both institutionally and technically as desired. The
successful implementation of this component has enabled donors to continue supporting it.



v
Results
11.            The project, therefore, effectively translated the multi-donor grant assistance into goods and
services quickly restoring and expanding facilities and essential services to the Arnman-Zarqa-Irbid areas where
most returnees took up residence. Upwards of seven thousand man years of employment were generated by
procurement financed under the project - comparing well with over ten percent of the returnee generated
unemployment. This is beyond appraisal expectations of creating 1,600 jobs.
12.            The social and infrastructure components provided the needed assistance expeditiously.
Additional classroom spaces were rented, staff and shifts were increased and textbooks, furniture and sanitary
facilities were provided well in time for the 1991 and 1992 school years to start. As a result, no school-age
returnee child was denied admission in spite of the higher than anticipated number of returnees. Hospital
supplies, equipment maintenance, medicines and health care staffing provided for under the project enabled
adequate and uninterrupted health care delivery to a suddenly enlarged clientele. The Amman-Zarqa-Juweida-
Azraq roads, considerably damaged by third-country war refugee traffic, were repaired by April 1993, and
began carrying higher than pre-crisis volumes of traffic. Thirty public transport buses were repaired and made
road-worthy by spare parts financed by the project. Procurement of equipment to expand the water supply
rapidly by commissioning 21 new wells, was completed - the system now serves additional connections in
areas where most returnees took up residence. Furthermore, upwards of $15-20 million exports were
generated by the project till December 1993. This has raised both, the prospects for better long-term export
diversification and growth, and, awareness of new markets among exporters. As regards imports of food and
productive sector inputs, financing over the initial US$5 million each, did not materialize. The loan guarantee
trust fund scheme to provide collateral for loans to assist poor returnees was not implemented as it was not
funded.
Sustainability
13.            The project focussed on meeting immediate returnee-induced needs, for a limited duration, after
which broader economic adjustments being pursued by the Government were expected to support additional
fiscal outlays needed. The sustainability of project benefits, therefore, should be viewed in the context of how
well assistance to returnees is now integrated in the normal course of operations of the Government.1
Assisting returnees, however, still remains a government priority. High unemployment levels (near 25 percent)
induced by returnees, have reverted to around 15 percent, as prior to the Gulf crisis; however, the generally
skilled returnees are still facing difficulty in finding suitable employment as the economy and its service sectors
only slowly recover and expand.
14.            Following the east Asian and Korean models, JEDCO expanded the Government's outreach to,
and allied itself with private sector manufacturers. It continues receiving Swiss Government and European
I/ As regards health and education, most staff recruited with project financing have been retained by Ministries of
Health (MOH) and of Education (MOE). Timely contractual repairs of severely damaged Amman-Zarqa-Azraq-Juweida
roads avoided potentially expensive reconstruction; routine follow-up by the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) is expected
to maintain their condition in future. The need for expanding the Public Transport Corporation bus flet by 100 new buses
was initially deferred, and critically needed medicines were procured by re-allocating associated funds; finally this need was
obviated u private bus operators were allowed to ply publicly operated routes - a satisfactory arrangement, this is now
expected to continue. Regular water supply, service and maintenance that began servicing new connections on emergency
basis under the project continue under routine Water Authority operations.



vi
Union support to spur export growth further as it responds to needs of exporters. Further measures extending
the positive impact of intensive TA provided are being identified under a possible follow-up project. It is
expected to address the Government's request to help develop its export and investment promotion functions in
view of the successful experience with the project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
15.          The flexible program/project approach is a model for Bank operations, especially where donor
coordination is important. As an emergency operation, the project was one of a kind. It responded to an
economic shock, rather than a natural disaster or civil war, that came in the midst of macro-economic
adjustments. It served as a major catalyst mobilizing grant assistance from four donors - six times the loan
amount - to help the Government of Jordan address pressing needs of returning Jordanians. It also maintained
maximum flexibility to accommodate more assistance. Rapidly prepared, it was also rapidly implemented. It
closed on schedule, fully utilizing all committed funds by December 1993. The Government's commitment to
assist, resettle and reintegrate returnees in the economy contributed in large part to making the project a
success. Equally important was the flexibility with which donors, in turn, collaborated with the Bank and the
Government to implement clearly identified project components.
16.          The project design focussed on implementation using existing entities familiar with Bank
procedures. The simple and clear objectives of each project component were initially translated into actions
with help of the concerned agencies. This enabled a clear understanding of what needed to be done and
facilitated getting the project started flawlessly. During implementation this clarity and flexibility of objectives
allowed transferring funds between components (e.g. from public transport to health) and attending to needs
from outside the project (public transport needs were eventually serviced by the private sector).
17.          The Government's commitment, demonstrated by the high priority the Minister of Planning
personally assigned to overseeing project implementation, ensured efficient utilization of grant funds. Needed
re-allocations of funds, somewhat modifying the project mid-course, were jointly approved by the Bank and
donors at the Minister's request. The central project coordination by the high level government Task Force
through the Ministry of Planning enabled more critical needs of returnees to be met up front. The
Government, in turn, also developed its institutional capacity by coordinating project implementation centrally
through the PIU.
18.          Intensive and continuous supervision was also a key ingredient of success. Continuous
supervision by Bank staff also kept the rapid implementation relatively problem-free. In procuring water
supply equipment, more delivery time and additional supervision was needed due to UN inspections of cargo at
the port of Aqaba and suppliers' complaints; and even though such extensive procurement review was not
called for in the appraisal, it was nevertheless carried out by staff to avoid delays. For the export component,
managing technical assistance and building institutional private sector outreach capacity simultaneously would
not have been successful without close staff-borrower rapport established through supervision.
19.          Early involvement and continued collaboration with donors, throughout implementation, was
critical to the project success. Their involvement in supervision enabled them to assess the changing
circumstances and needs of the Government and returnees and therefore help redirect their assistance.
Furthermore, as seen in the case of exports, this mutual collaboration resulted in helping sustain the project
benefits.



1
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name                            Emergency Recovery Project
Loan No.                                3306-JO
RVP Unit                                Middle East and North Africa
Country                                 Jordan
Sector                                  Emergency Recovery
II. BACKGROUND
1.1             The 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait had a devastating effect on the Jordanian economy
when it was attempting to adjust and cope with the regional recession of the 1980s; after an initial
influx of third country evacuees, resettlement of returning Jordanians began stretching government
expenditures, while lost transit trade and remittances from, as well as exports to, neighboring
countries dropped sharply and unemployment rose to nearly 25 percent.1 An estimated 400,000
retrnees, equivalent to a sudden population increase of over ten percent, urgently needed
infrastructural and social services while the Government's fiscal capacity to provide for these
incremental returnee needs declined sharply.2 In the process of undertaking broad economic reforms
under an IMF supported program and an Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan from the Bank,
the Government requested financial assistance from the international community and technical
assistance from the Bank to assess critical and incremental returnee induced needs.
1.2             Under the "Special Program of Bank Assistance in Response to the Gulf Crisis," the
Bank assisted the Government to assess urgent priority needs of returnees and prepare an Emergency
Response Program (program), in December 1990.3 The Emergency Recovery Project (project) was
1/ Estimated based on the addition of 30,000 job losses due to output declines and 80,000 unemployed returnces to a 15
percent pro-crisis unemployment.
Z/ No more recent estimates have exceeded this planning figure; no new surveys have confirmed a lower figure.
2I Endorsed by the Executive Directors in October, 1990 this program envisaged providing: (a) assistance in designing
appropriate policy responses to the crisis; (b) creditworthiness permitting, expanded lending to deal with specific effects of
the crisis; and (c) aid coordination and assistance in mobilizing appropriate financing packages, including debt and debt-
service relief. The most immediately impacted countries, particularly Egypt and Jordan, were expected to experience the
greatest prcssure on national budgets. Expanded lending was, therefore, expected to address, inter alia, socio-economic and
infrastructural relief expenditures and investments. Bank loans were considered acceptable vehicles for cofinancing and
helping to focus financial assistance coordination.



2
developed as part of this program. The program/project concept allowed it a unique operational
flexibility whereby additional appraised but unfunded components from different sectors could be
added as financing became available. Of the program's nine components, totalling US$235 million,
five totalling US$60 million were initially approved as the 'core' project. Financing in parallel and
jointly with the Bank loan was provided by four donors - Canada, Luxembourg, Sweden and
Switzerland. The Bank administered the related grant and contribution agreements. Of the remaining
four program components, three were initiated later when additional financing was made available by
the Swiss Government. About $160 million under three program components remained unfunded.
m. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.3          Objective. The project aimed to support a set of core components from the
Government's program to help meet urgent, incremental, returnee-induced needs for essential social
services and physical infrastructure and to assist in integrating returnees into the economy by creating
jobs associated with these expenditures.
1.4          Project Description. The project was to provide financing for and implement the
following core components (appraised costs and actual outcomes provided for reference):
(a) Education. The provision of teaching/learning materials, classroom equipment and
furniture, building materials/equipment for sanitary facilities, maintenance services, rental
payments for space to serve as temporary classrooms, and salaries for additional teachers
(US$16.9 million appraised; US$16.6 million actual);
(b) Health. The provision of urgently needed medical supplies and drugs; salaries for
additional medical staff; and intensive maintenance services to cope with the incremental load
on physical plant and equipment (US$9.3 million appraised; US$14.4 million actual);1
(c) Public Transport. The replacement of about 100 of Greater Amman's aging fleet of 300
buses, which were badly damaged as a result of transporting returnees and refugees and their
belongings; and the procurement of spare parts and workshop equipment (US$5.8 million
appraised; US$1.1 million actual);
(d) Water Supply and Sewerage. The expansion of facilities to meet estimated additional
water demand of 26 million cubic meters per year, by financing new wells, increasing
pumping capacity, constructing new water mains, increasing home connections, reducing
water losses from leakage in the existing distribution system, and expanding waste water and
sewerage disposal systems to cope with the increased volume of effluent (US$20.5 million
appraised; US$17.5 million actual); and
I/ At the request of the Govenmuent US$4.7 million were transferred from the US$5.8 million allocation of the Public
Transport Corporation to procure more medicines.



3
(e) Highways and Roads. The provision of urgently needed rehabilitation and maintenance
for about 235 km. of main roads between Azraq in northeast Jordan and Amman that were
damaged by the extremely heavy refugee/returnee traffic (US$7.5 million; US$7.5 million
actual).
1.5          Scope for Expanding the Project. The design retained a key flexibility; the
following additional components were also appraised and prepared for potential implementation to be
financed by additional resources when available.
(a) Essential Food Supplies. Procurement of staple food products such as cereals, sugar,
meat and milk powder, which Jordan could not produce in adequate quantities and needed to
import, and which were required to meet the incremental demand generated by the influx of
returnees (US$66.5 million; US$4.5 million actual);
(b) Inputs for Agriculture, Industry and Construction. Financing for essential raw
materials, intermediate goods and spare parts to help restore output and employment in the
productive sectors and to help meet the incremental, returnee-induced needs (US$88.5 million
appraised; US$8.6 million actual);
(c) TA for Export Market Development. Promotion of export-oriented activities and
employment through technical assistance for industry-level market surveys; the establishment
of marketing services in designated countries to promote market/product identification and
export sales; and the product development efforts of individual exporters to help offset the
loss of the Iraqi and Gulf markets (US$5 million appraised; US$5 million actual); and
(d) Loan Guarantee Trust Facility. Financing to expand an existing loan guarantee facility
to enable returnees lacking collateral to obtain credit for starting new small businesses, and to
assist existing viable but collateral-scarce businesses to expand their operations and
employment. The facility was to be made available for a period of two years and provide
loan guarantees of up to US$100,000 (US$15 million appraised; not implemented).
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.6          The project was designed quickly to rapidly implement the first phase of the
Government's program. Its program/project design was meant to accommodate funding for additional
components as it became available. Though this increased the complexity in its scope, the
implementation aspects were kept simple, correctly addressing the key risk - borrower's
implementation capacity. It matched urgent needs with available external assistance, retaining
flexibility and not imposing major conditions. The design strategy was to clearly identify short and
medium term multi-sectoral recovery measures, targeting the expansion and/or rehabilitation of
schools, hospitals, water, transport facilities and related assets and services. No new agencies were
created to implement these; entities conversant with Bank implementation processes, such as the
Ministries of Education, Health, and Public Works along with the Water Authority, were selected to



4
implement core components. This strategy worked and succeeded in addressing another potential
risk, that of disbursement delays. These were considerably reduced by instituting a central PIU,
guided by a cabinet level steering committee, at the Ministry of Planning. PIU successfully
coordinated routine agency level implementation.
1.7             The above design strategy was also agreed to during the preparation/appraisal mission
in November 1990. It recognized the Bank's past experience with emergency lending and the
rationale, criteria and considerations laid out in the Bank's Operational Directive 8.50 as regards
emphasizing speed and adapting Bank procedures for disbursements, procurement and use of
consultants to fit emergency needs.1 It emphasized supervision, providing for necessary staff time
for refining design decisions that could only be taken after project start. Preparatory work during and
following appraisal clarified initial procurement arrangements for the import of bulk commodities and
other equipment and materials. For water supply equipment and essential foods (sugar), sample
procurement documents were also prepared and approved. Needed equipment, materials and services
(including some retroactive salary payments) for each sector were itemized by Ministries
implementing the program and reviewed extensively by Bank staff.2 Finally, donor preferences
were sought to identify components for grant financing.3 Two special accounts were initially opened
at the Central Bank of Jordan for disbursement of funds from the Bank and Sweden and one for
disbursement of funds from Switzerland was opened later, to expedite payments for the respective
components. Trust fund accounts were also set up in the Bank. Table 1.1 shows the resulting multi-
donor, multi-sectoral allocation of funds under the project as designed for implementation.
1/ See World Bank, Environment Depatment, Divisional Working Paper No. 1990-15: Kreimer A., Harth, A and
Quarantelli, Lessons Learnt From Emeraencv Lendinc, (Foreword, para. 5) for a succinct review of what has worked
well in past thirty years.
2 Although not explicitly stated in the President's Report, this design constituted indirect support relieving the government
from budgetary pressures. It was within the purview of the Bank's assistance to countries most immediately impacted by the
Gulf crisis. Furthermore, although employment generation was not the target objective, components were designed with a
view to increase associated employment opportunities. Key progress indicators of the project ensured expediting the
Ministry's emergency procurement, though the urgency with which this procurement was carried out rendered thcse
indicators not very useful after the first year of implementation [See Attachment U.
3/ Project files are replcte with records of numerous efforts by Bank and the Government, before and after negotiations and
subsequently in connection with Consultative Group meetings, to secure and match funding with preferred sectors of
assistance.



5
Table 1.1: Project Design and Organization
(US$ million equivalent)
Estimated Project Cost                                     Initial Financing Plan
1. Education Sector (MOE)                   15.3            1. Bank Loan                10.0
2. Health (MOH)                              8.4            2. Government                6.4
3. Water Supply (WAJ)                       17.8
4. Highway Sector (MOPW)                     6.5            Corunancing
5. Public Transport (PTC)                    5.0            3. Canada                    7.3
4. Luxembourg                1.3
5. Sweden                   10.0
Contingencies                                6.9            6. Switzerland              25.0
Total Project Cost                          60.0            Total Project Cost          60.0
Additional Program Cost                                     Additional Financing
6. Food Supplies (MOS)                      66.5            Switzerland                 15.0
7. Raw Materials (MOS)                      88.5                                        (5.0)
8. Exports, TA (JEDCO)                       5.0                                        (5.0)
9. Loan Guarantee Scheme                    15.0                                        (5.0)
Total Project/Program Cost                 235.0            Total Project Funding       75.0
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
Overall Implementation
1.8           Overall project implementation was excellent. The project met its dual objectives of
helping meet returnee needs and creating some associated employment; it was done rapidly and
utilized all available funding. It is also estimated that about 7,250 man-years of employment
(although some temporary), or about 10-13 percent of annual returnee induced unemployment, can be
associated with project expenditures, much higher than the 1,600 jobs estimated at appraisal.1 In
addition, private sector interest in its export market development component grew beyond
expectations, a substantial impact, germane to the longer term economic development strategy of
Jordan. From the institutional point of view, the Ministry of Planning has developed a more effective
understanding of coordinating donor financed assistance.
1/ This estimatc and other significant implementation results and experiences were discussed and agreed to in a joint
implementation completion meeting held in Amman on December 22, 1993. Highlights from assessments discussed at that
meeting form the bulk of what is reported in this section.



6
1.9           Partly as a result of the Government's commitment to implementation and partly due
to above norm Bank supervision, loan and associated grant proceeds were used in line with
understandings reached during negotiations1 and as covenanted by the respective agreements.2
Project performance, after start-up, was therefore rated a "1" throughout. A mid-term review, in
March-April 1992, conducted jointly with donor representatives in Jordan concluded, among others,
that the Government's commitment to the project was the key to its success. Excellent project
coordination by the Ministry of Planning as well as timely and efficient agency-level implementation
allowed savings under one component to be utilized by another-actions supported by donors. As a
result, no significant implementation delays (apart from some delayed equipment deliveries) were
encountered and over half the funds were used in the first year; all procurement was finalized and
road reconstruction completed by the second year after which only about ten percent of the funds lay
unutilized. These were finally disbursed for export related technical assistance and pending
equipment deliveries completed by the grant closing date of December 31, 1993. Attachment II
shows actual use of funds by sub-components. The following sections describe implementation under
different components.
Social Sectors
1.10          Education. Contracts for school rental, sanitary facilities maintenance and furniture
were pre-appraised and executed rapidly by the Ministry of Education which estimates that anywhere
between 60-80,000 returnee students - that is at least 50 percent more than appraised - sought and
gamed admission. The project financed increases in classroom shifts, renting additional space and
hiring of new teaching staff. Furniture and sanitary facilities, especially for girls' schools, were
refurbished and provided well in time for school openings. The project also provided for 8.6 million
textbooks/ workbooks at a cost of US$5.8 million and an equivalent amount in salaries (some
retroactively) for 2,350 additional teaching and administrative staff (2,200 man-years equivalent) hired
on an urgent basis by the Amman, Zarqa and Irbid area school systems and retained after the project
completion. Their retention after project completion was a particular concern that donor
representatives expressed during mid-term implementation review. No major implementation problem
was encountered.
1.1i          Health. Overall, the project assistance proved timely but somewhat insufficient.
Executed by the Ministry of Health, this component did not aim at providing permanent
improvements to existing medical facilities but only at providing for critical hospital maintenance,
medicines, medical supplies and equipment, staffing and facilities maintenance needs. But these needs
were somewhat conservatively estimated, in retrospect, especially for medicines. About US$8.0
million worth of medicines were procured finally, more than twice the US$2.7 million planned, to
enable health care facilities in returnee populated areas to deliver adequate services.3 In addition,
150 man-years of general and equipment oriented maintenance, totalling US$2.0 million was
contracted and US$4.4 million in staff salaries was provided for nearly 1,770 new-hires
1I For FY93 supervision utilized some 30 staff weeks, over twice the departmental portfolio average, largely to support the
Bank's trust fund arrangements with donors.
ZJ See paras. 4.07, 4.16, 4.18 and 6.01 of the Memorandum of the President (Report No: P-5469-JO).
3/ A mum of USS4.7 million were transferred at the request of the Govemment from the public transport component to help
pay for this more critical need.



7
(approximately 1992 man-years) under the project. They too have been retained by Ministry of
Health after project completion.
Infrastructure Sectors
1.12         Roads. As appraised, approximately 235 Km of roads connecting Amman, Juweida,
Azraq and Zarqa needed upgrading and repaving with bituminous overlay in critical sections damaged
by evacuation of war refugees. An expected 600 man-years in contractual short-term employment
was expected to be generated by this component costing US$7.5 million. However, three contracts
totalling an equivalent of US$8.9 million were signed for refurbishing about 177 Km of sections of
these highways and an estimated 750 man-years of short-term employment was generated. The works
were completed in a twelve month period in spite of adverse weather conditions. These timely repair
works avoided more expensive road reconstruction which would have resulted due to the heavy
maintenance backlog being experienced by the Ministry of Public Works (MOPW). The emergency
works quickly reduced traffic congestion and the accident rate and enabled higher than pre-crisis
traffic volumes to be handled by the key road sections of populated areas. Works on some remaining
sections of the roads are now scheduled under the ongoing maintenance program of the MOPW,
which bore the extra cost of the three contracts.
1.13         Public Transportation. The project proposed to restore the service capability of the
severely deteriorating fleet of the Public Transport Corporation (PTC), after it was further depleted
by war evacuee and refugee exodus. Procurement of 100 buses at a cost of $4.7 million, and spare
parts and workshop equipment, totalling another US$1.1 million was planned. As implementation
began and upon the understanding that buses would be procured through the government budget, the
Bank agreed to transfer funds allocated to this component to procure urgently needed medicines under
the health component at the request of the project steering committee. Thus only spare parts, worth
US$1.1 million were procured under this component, and 30 buses from PTC's own fleet were
reconditioned and made road-worthy during 1992. Before buses were procured by the Government,
PTC was successful in leasing out some of its operations to private sector operators. Approximately
240 medium sized (22 passenger) buses began plying on greater Amman area routes during 1992.
These were supplemented by 110 more as of September, 1993. The role of the high level Task Force
in implementing Government's proactive and pragmatic approach to privatization of public services
was instrumental here; emergency needs with potential to be addressed by the private sector were
recognized as such. Moreover, the project design did not restrict more crucial needs to be attended
to, mid-course, from outside the project scope.
1.14         Water Supply and Sewerage. The project financed equipment for drilling and
connecting 20 new wells to supply an estimated 10.3 mcm/y to returnee populated areas urgently; and
upgrade system capabilities to test, monitor and reduce water loss and pollution etc. In addition,
some equipment was provided for maintenance. The design of this component assumed that any
supply increase would go to alleviate some of the pressures created by increased returnee induced
demand burdening an already strained pre-crisis level of supply.
1.15         The component was well implemented. It entailed substantial procurement, and WAJ
was quite conversant with the relevant Bank procedures. In fact, the technical annex to the
Memorandum of the President (para. 4.11) did not envisage any prior review of contract awards once
standard bidding documents were cleared by the Bank. Nevertheless, extensive monitoring was



8
required to resolve bidder complaints and avoid related delays as WAJ's efforts were already subject
to some delays due to the UN sponsored international inspection of goods at Aqaba port.1
1.16           WAJ utilized equipment in stock to accelerate its expansion program for returnee
populated areas, relying on force account implementation which proved a useful route to adopt.
Overall, approximately 21 new wells were commissioned providing nearly 12 mcm/yr against 10.3
mcm/yr appraised.2 About 20 ICB contract packages were awarded. Their values ranged from
US$10,000 to US$4.5 million and involved over fifty suppliers.3 This was done efficiently. As
result, over US$3.0 million was saved under this component and subsequently reallocated to meet
urgent essential raw material import needs. The prompt approval by Swiss authorities, of the PIU's
request for re-allocation, exemplifies donor-Bank-borrower collaboration.
The Expanded Project
1.17           Export Development. This modest and catalytic component was designed to reorient
post-war exports to limit output and employment losses while reviving foreign exchange earnings - a
top priority for the program. Jordan Export Development and Commercial Centers Corporation
(JEDCO) was identified to implement this component. It designed and implemented the Market
Development Assistance (MDA) program composed of product, market and institutional development
activities in conjunction with extensive Bank supervision.4 These activities were carried out at the
institutional, private sector and firm levels and aimed at improving quality, production efficiencies
and capabilities required in exporting to newer markets. They were monitored by a Steering
Committee.
1.18           In implementing MDA, JEDCO played more than the catalytic role intended by the
project and surpassed the expectations of the Government, private sector and its own staff enabling it
to extend its original mandate of trade protocol administration to include also export promotion. A
small MDA unit was created within JEDCO to implement the component in a more private sector
style and pro-active way by reaching out to private sector exporters. Its outreach gained their support
and helped realize exports to new markets in excess of three times the grant allocation of US$5
million to this component. JEDCO is now the single most active export related organization in the
country and its experience is worthy of replication for export and investment promotion activities
being considered under a new project at the request of the Government.
I/ Closer supervision was especially required after one bidder complained that inadequate testing capabilities of WAJ, inter
alia, resulted in another bidder being awardod a USS4.8 million contract.
I The broader issue of how over-pumping from new wells may affect supply characteristics of the aquifer rrmains to be
addressed by ongoing water sector operations.
3/ Of a total procurement of US$17.5 million, drilling equipment accounted for USS 1.3 million, pumping equipment for
US$1.6 million, pipes and distribution equipment worth US$6.2 million and water meters worth US$4.7 million.
4/ A number of prior economic and sector work recommendations of the Export Incentives and Technological Capabilities:
An Outward Looking Strategy for Jordan (Report No: 10228-JO) were implemented under this pilot program eg.: raising
awarencss in local manufacturers; learning by doing through technology transfer and technical assistance; general
enhancement of product quality. In depth supervision entailed translating this strategy by conceptualizing, business
planning, formnulating the terms of reference for, and monitoring the daily progress of an MDA unit and the JEDCO
Steering Committee overseeing its operations.



9
1.19           As regards institutional activities, TA was central to the MDA program. It was
implemented for three sectors - textile and apparel; light engineering goods; traditional goods; and
one service sector - printing and packaging at a cost of US$2.9 million.' International consultants
recruited collaborated extensively with both private firms, JEDCO staff and foreign buyers. In
developing their terms of reference, textile and industry sector specialists from the Bank were
involved to ensure that the rapid and intensive deployment of this technical support would yield the
desired impact of demonstrating that exporting to new markets could be successful. In addition a
Chief Technical Adviser was hired to assist JEDCO/MDA management realize these results more
directly. A large part of Bank supervision, therefore, focussed on expediting procurement and
mobilization of the nearly 120 man-months of TA involved. Another supervision emphasis was on
ensuring MDA staff worked closely with consultants to learn requisite skills necessary for JEDCO to
continue MDA type work after the project.2 The TA also complemented the firm level assistance to
exporters and private organizations in their marketing activities. This interaction bought about a very
high level of local awareness of product quality and export related business standards required by
western markets - the single most important impact of the technical assistance.
1.20           As regards private sector activities, the project financed broad market development
activities of export related establishments in most industry sectors (including trade, construction and
agriculture). These were carried out with the help of eleven private organizations, including non-
commercial NGOs such as the Young Muslim Women Association, Queen Alia Fund, Nour Al-
Hussein Foundation and Save the Children Foundation involved in developing women's artisanship
and gearing products for exports. The focus here was to help prospect out new markets through
studies, trade fair participation and organization as well as develop promotional materials and export
related information systems. These organizations, representing the interest of some 300 companies,
utilized US$0.8 million to carry out 10 market studies, training for 70 employees (13 overseas),
participation in industry fairs, exhibitions, export missions and seminars. At project completion,
exports of about US$0.4 million by organizations (especially women's) to eleven new markets already
were attributed to this assistance.3 In association with this about 700 employment opportunities are
estimated to have been generated.
1.21           The matching cash-grant assistance to firms generated a very substantial amount of
private sector confidence in the Government's program to develop exports, especially in terms of
product quality and markets. The MDA unit initially advertised the available assistance and then
followed it up with field visits to elicit proposals for exploring new export market/products. Initially,
firms were reluctant since they perceived this more as interference rather than as assistance.
1/ The first contract was signed with Messrs. Fielden House Ltd., (US$1.3 miUion and 48 man-months) onc year aftcr the
project started on June 3, 1992 for the garment and leather apparel industry sector; second on March 14, 1993, with W.S.
Atks (US$0.7 million and 39 man-months) for the mechanical and electrical engineering goods sector; third on April 28,
1993 with RDH (US$0.4 and 20 man-months) to develop traditional goods and handicrafts; fourth on May 6, 1993 with
PIRA International (US$0.5 million and 22 man-months) to develop the printing and packaging sector respectively.
2 Bank supervision report did not rate performance of TA primarily because its implementation began late and was short
lived.
2/ During implementation, the Steering Committee recommended, and the Bank agreed, to double the grant limit for
women's organizations.



10
Gradually, the payoffs associated with TA, especially apparel exports related, started being recognized
and this scheme expanded. Over time, about 125 firms, of which one-fifth exported for the first time
and a third to new markets, utilized about US$1 million under this scheme, benefitting simultaneously
from institutional TA at JEDCO as well as work done by private organizations. A large number
attended trade fairs and participated in selling missions targeted to new markets. The international
consultants also helped arrange "inward missions" of foreign buyers in their sectors of assistance - a
very successful and useful approach. This resulted in a good technical understanding of the market
and products by the firm, and in turn, the needs of the firm by JEDCO.
1.22         As a result of the MDA activities, exports of over $15 million - first time and/or to
new markets - have been generated already and conservatively estimated, 1,000 man-years of
employment were created or regenerated, in related activities. While JEDCO has been able to
practically assess what is needed to enhance the export capabilities of Jordanian producers, the private
sector awareness of foreign markets has also grown markedly and demand for relevant JEDCO-type
export related services is on the rise. This development has brought JEDCO the mandate to further
the national export strategy in a more coordinated and allied way with its private sector clientele.
1.23.        Essential Food and Productive Sector Inputs. The returnee influx was expected to
clearly exacerbate Jordan's food supply problems. Incremental amounts of staple food-stuffs were to
be procured since consumption patterns were not expected to change. The staples (e.g., cereals,
sugar, meats, milk powder. etc.), which Jordan could not produce, for an estimated US$66.5 million,
needed to be financed. At appraisal, Bank staff reviewed lists of key essential commodities,
incremental amounts of which could be financed under the project. The essential food commodities
being imported amounted to US$256 million out of a total food import bill of over US$700 million in
1990; similarly, essential inputs for agriculture and the industry/construction sectors were estimated at
US$44 million and US$338 million respectively prior to the Gulf crisis. On the assumption that
productive sector activities would decline, agriculture by 25 percent and industry/construction by 9
percent, these requirements were reduced appropriately. A fraction, 13 percent, of the reduced
requirements were presented for donors as the incremental financial support justifiable under the
program. This was a very conservative presentation of the needs. First, these declines were actually
short lived and less than forecast: manufacturing declined by 2.5 percent in 1991 only, to revert to a
strong growth of 14 percent in 1992; agriculture, likewise declined by 13 percent in 1991 only to
revert quickly with strong growth.
1.24         Approximately 15,000 tons of sugar (equivalent to six weeks' needs) valued at
US$4.5 million was procured under the essential food import component; the remaining US$0.5
million, together with about US$3.0 million saved under the water component were rapidly utilized
together with US$5.0 million allocated to finance a total of about US$8.5 million worth of essential
raw material imports. Over US$140 million remained unfunded under these two components using
the conservative 1991-92 criteria; this would be much more if 1993-94 data are considered. To the
extent that these needs were not met, the pressure on the import bill was not reduced but only carried
forward to date.
1.25         Loan Guarantee Trust Fund. This component, appraised for US$15 million, aimed
to provide collateral for financing for returnees to set up new businesses, but remained unfunded and
was not implemented. It was expected that returnees would be collateral poor and would need
assistance to start entrepreneurial ventures. Although an existing loan guarantee mechanism at the
Industrial Development Bank was available, it was felt that it would be insufficient. Nevertheless,



11
experience bore out that this need was not urgent and critical since returnees repatriated savings but
preferred to invest in real estate related construction activities. Moreover, even though donor
financing was not readily available, its mobilization would have required counterpart funds, which
were not easily identifiable.
Project Risks
1.26         The key risk identified at appraisal was the institutional capacity of the five
implementing agencies involved in the project to carry out their activities in a timely and effective
manner. A second project risk was the possible delays in quick disbursements required under the
project. To help contain these risks, project components incorporated simple designs built around
existing schemes and operations already established in Jordan. The preparation mission recognized
these risks and planned for them by developing key monitoring indicators (Attachment II) specifying
actions to be taken by each project entity. During project launch missions procurement and
disbursement specialists explained, clarified and initially coordinated what needed to be done by the
different agencies. Two special accounts were also set up and their operating procedures were
discussed and clarified with the relevant agencies. After effectiveness, another special account was
opened for disbursing Swiss funds to JEDCO beneficiaries. As the PIU became more operational
these key risks began to be progressively minimized.
1.27         The basic implementation strategy to work with agency-level project units familiar
with Bank procedures and coordinate them centrally through the PIU worked well. Day to day
administration of the social services components was well handled by the Ministries of Health and
Education. These retroactively financed staff salaries and maintenance contracts - administration of
which was not problematic as they were ongoing expenditures. Procurement of medicines and
textbooks etc. was relatively straight-forward also. As a result, funds from Canada and Sweden were
fully utilized by these components by September 1992 and June 1993 respectively. Once funds from
the public transport component (allocated for new buses) were transferred to pay for medicines, PTC
utilized the allocation for spare parts quickly. Bank loan disbursements, therefore, also kept ahead of
their forecast pace. Since road works involved three civil works contracts, their award and execution
was expedited by the MOPW and monitored by the PIU to ensure completion within the stipulated 12
months. As regards water supply, WAJ was well versed with the Bank's requirements and proceeded
with implementing its emergency water supply plans for returnee populated areas using its own
equipment in stock. Thus, in spite of deliveries being somewhat delayed due to UN inspections at the
Aqaba port and procurement monitoring by the Bank, implementation was not affected. As a result
85 percent of funds from Switzerland were disbursed by September 1993.
1.28         The export component became operational relatively late and JEDCO was new and
inexperienced with Bank procedures. At its start, it was anticipated that a large volume of small
disbursements would be required for numerous cash grant recipients early on. A special account was
opened with an initial deposit of US$800,000 in January 1992. In fact, this requirement emerged
much later after technical assistance contracts began complementing the cash grant scheme and
JEDCO increased its outreach. So, the special account facility was drawn on more towards the end
of the project. However, by March 1993, after the third replenishment of the special account,
recovery of paid invoices was initiated by the Bank, and the following seven replenishment requests
could only be approved for progressively lesser amounts. This constrained JEDCO's attempts to pay
invoices as payments from Switzerland also experienced delays. An unforeseen eventuality, this



12
situation was remedied, to the extent possible, by continuous supervision and intensive working level
collaboration between the Bank, JEDCO and Swiss counterparts.
1.29          However, there was another anticipated risk - the restricted availability of external
funding - that was addressed by the program/project design of the operation. While funding did not
materialize for full implementation of the four components of the expanded program, this did not
harm the integrity of the basic project. The essential imports components were very conservatively
costed yet the import needs eventually remained unmet; the export component ultimately needed more
funds than anticipated, to retain its positive momentum. The project also accommodated the changing
priorities of returnees by re-allocations of funds for medicines from buses; from water supply to
essential imports. It is in these areas that Bank-borrower entity-donor collaboration worked best in
practice, to mitigate the unforeseen eventualities, during implementation (see Attachment III). Thus
the overall project risks were minimized by simplicity and flexibility of design as well as by
implementing it with intensive and continuous supervision.
Project Supervision
1.30         During appraisal, Bank management was informed that the project would require
intensive supervision. It did; over 60 staff weeks were expended in eight missions every four
months. To ensure rapid start-up, continuity and effective supervision, the task manager for
processing the project continued supervising it through the first year of implementation. Additional
expertise was contracted to intensively supervise procurement. As implementation of core
components and equipment deliveries neared completion, supervision focussed on managing
disbursements, the multi-disciplinary and multi-donor aspects of which could not have been efficiently
conducted without significant travel and communications costs. Finally, the industry specific
expertise for textile/garment was de3loyed to ensure emerging global trends in the sector were
translated for impact on the ground. Overall, Bank management emphasized regularly supervising
the direct impact of emergency assistance as well as the long-run sustainability of benefits from the
export component.
1.31         The export component therefore received intensive supervision. First, an explicit
understanding was reached with the Minister of Industry and Trade that without a change in JEDCO's
style of operation it could not influence a quick turn around in export markets. Next, to achieve this,
it was clarified that actually implementing technical assistance to generate exports rather than long-
term institution building of JEDCO, was needed. Its business plan was supervised to this effect. To
implement the component and simultaneously address longer term institutional needs, a Chief
Technical Adviser was also recruited to assist JEDCO with strategy development, seminars, training
and data base development as well as routine management duties. The supervision approach of
delegating and internalizing management of international TA and MDA activities within JEDCO,
succeeded. The MDA unit experienced a fast learning curve and it successfully executed the
traditional products and printing/packaging TA contracts with practically no direct Bank supervision.
As result, JEDCO now has a much more clearly defined set of institutional development needs and its
implementation capacity is far stronger than when it started implementing the component.
I/ Three independent missions by a Bank senior tcxtilc specialist enabled a thorough review at the firm level to ensure that
performance of intemational consultants at JEDCO was as required under the tcrms of refcrence. This model of appraising
consultants' work was then used by JEDCO staff to evaluate other sector TA.



13
1.32         The one key issue during implementation related to managing disbursements from the
largest contributor to the project - Switzerland. As per agreements with the Government of
Switzerland, financing for the project was managed by the Swiss Federal Office of Foreign Economic
Affairs, Balance of Payments Assistance and Debt Reduction Unit. Disbursement against a
withdrawal application, say in JD, was normally approved for payment by the Bank staff, to the Swiss
Federal Office. Project related funds were, however, managed by a separate office. This delayed
payments. The arrangement also complicated reconciling accounts in JD, US$, and SF maintained in
Amman, Washington and Berne, especially when final payment advice to the Bank remained pending.
Based on this experience, contribution agreements for future quick delivery operations may strive, to
the extent possible under donor agreements, to require that funds be retained in trust at the Bank, as
was done with other cofinancing under this project.
1.33         Although the overall supervision effort of some 60 staff-weeks in eight missions was
very high, it was anticipated. In turn, it ensured timely delivery of urgent assistance in collaboration
with the cofinanciers. Accordingly, all supervision reports were shared with cofinanciers and aide-
memoirs were found to be particularly useful in sharing implementation issues. The mid-term
implementation review proved useful in increasing donor participation, strengthening collaboration
and coordinating project actions with donors. The regular auditing and reporting of project accounts
was efficiently carried out by the PIU. In particular, its multi-donor currency recording was
instrumental in keeping an efficient track of project funds flow. At times, both Bank staff and donors
relied on the PIU accounts to reconcile their respective disbursement records. A final implementation
review with donor and government representatives discussed and agreed to the "on ground'
development impact this project had.
VI. MPACT AND SUSTAINABELITY
1.34         The project was an emergency operation with a two-fold purpose: (a) providing for
urgent returnee-induced needs; and (b) creating employment associated with the project expenditures.
Therefore, its impact and sustainablity need to be viewed in the context of ongoing adjustment
measures and the overall country assistance strategy of the Bank, in particular helping to mobilize
external assistance. In this the project had the desired impact and was successful. The longer term
sustainability of project benefits was to be deferred to ongoing adjustment operations designed to
broadly enable the reintegration of returnees into the economic mainstream.
1.35         As regards physical infrastructure, the assistance proved timely and adequate. It had
the desired impact of helping the Government bring back the water, roads and public transport
systems to their pre-crisis service levels with upgrades financed by the project. These will be
maintained by concerned departments using normal budgetary allocations in future. WAJ will also
continue receiving Bank assistance to address the issue of water scarcity and over-pumping as part of
future Bank operations. Only short term employment was generated in association with infrastructure
components, but this was anticipated. In social sectors, sustained employment prospects of health and
education staff whose salaries were financed by the project, are better since the Government has



14
expanded its programs. Teachers and health care staff, recruited under the project, will continue on
the regular staff rolls of the education and health ministries.
1.36         The export component generated strong private sector response and has the most long
term prospects. This is demonstrated by the private sector's: (a) eagerness to continue and retain TA
provided; (b) enthusiasm for exploring and entering new markets and products; and (c) strong
reception of product enhancement and technology upgrading recommendations of the TA. Also, the
Government: (a) wishes to expand this pilot and replicate it for investment promotion; (b) plans to
deepen financial sector mechanisms to enhance exports; and (c) is developing its comprehensive
national export strategy based on Bank economic and sector work and experience under this project.
The donors continue financially supporting JEDCO's MDA style operation and have also expressed
support for a coordinated and comprehensive export strategy with a longer term private sector slant.
VII. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.37         The Bank and the Government collaborated well in quickly identifying returnee needs,
designing the operation, rapidly delivering the needed assistance and efficiently using external
assistance. Bank performance, however, needs to be assessed in the context of managing the design,
supervision and related disbursements; the Government's performance, more on the ground, needs to
be viewed in terms of its commitment, implementation and coordination.
1.38         The Bank's overall assistance strategy was developed for all borrowers affected by the
Gulf crisis; the most immediately impacted countries were to be assisted by quick disbursing
operations. Accordingly, the Bank staff worked exceedingly fast with the Government in preparing
the project. In accordance with the Bank's policy on emergency recovery assistance ( Operational
Directive 8.50 ), the preparation focussed on restoring needed assets; relying on areas of the Bank's
comparative advantage; briefer processing; and compact documentation. It was processed and made
effective in a very short time.
1.39         Every attempt at keeping the implementation and supervision simple was incorporated
by Bank staff designing the project. Supervision at the agency level focussed on coordination, except
for exports where intensive involvement was needed initially; very quickly Bank staff delegated
decisions regarding hiring of TA and increased the upper limits for the JEDCO steering committee to
approve cash-grants. 1
1.40         The Bank also coordinated project implementation and supervision very effectively
with donors. At the project management level, it used its procurement, reporting, disbursement,
auditing and implementation guidelines in administering donor funds and contracted in additional
resources whenever necessary to ensure compliance with them. At the field implementation level, the
Bank staff supervising the project regularly apprised donor representatives of project progress, as
I/ The private style operation required by JEDCO was furthered tremendously by this delegation and the MDA unit
appreciated this operational flexibility.



15
during the mid-term project review. Similarly, in managing disbursements, working level
collaboration with the Swiss Government was extremely valuable in delivering project assistance
rapidly.
1.41         The Government's commitment to implementing the project was central to its success.
This commitment, personally driven by H.E. The Minister of Planning, was also noticeable at the
entity levels. The implementation units of the implementing agencies understood the potential
alternate uses of available grant assistance, were it not efficiently deployed by their respective sub-
components to meet returnee needs quickly. The commitment was reinforced when the efficient WAJ
procurement unit afforded some funds to be freed up for re-allocation. JEDCO, which planned and
initiated its component, later also succeeded in fully utilizing funds allocated to it, completely
reversing Bank's expectations at project start.
1.42         There was also very good central coordination and the PIU managed project accounts,
reporting and disbursements well. This too in a multi-sectoral multi-donor context. This experience
proved to be very useful for Ministry of Planning staff concerned with aid coordination activities. In
addition, the coordinated efforts of staff in line ministries, departments, schools, hospitals as well as
their contracted suppliers needs to be viewed in the context of Bank's processes. Unfamiliarity of
local suppliers with Bank requirements, detailed record keeping required by the Bank, and the
intervening budgetary and administrative systems of government departments all contributed to
making the work of the PIU as much as a separate project component. Without this central
coordination, donor commitments could not have been efficiently streamlined into action. In
retrospect, PIU should also have been better resourced with computers, project procurement and
disbursement management software, etc., along with required training. This role cannot be
underestimated and, in the future, needs to be strengthened centrally in Jordan.
VM. FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNT
1.43         The following is a summary of lessons learnt from the project:
*     Very high degree government commitment is crucial for a successful emergency
operation.
*     Project preparation and design should be as simple and flexible as possible - the
connections between borrowers' administrative mechanisms and Bank procedures
should be made as simple as possible.
*     In multi-sector multi-donor emergency operations, coordination by a central ministry
is essential. This central coordination of multi-faceted emergency operations should
be more specifically resourced and emphasized.



16
*     Disbursements for all donor funds administered by the Bank, to the extent possible,
should be made directly by the Bank. In cases where funds are disbursed by donors,
appropriate administrative procedures need to be in place early on.
*     Flexible implementation plans help to delegate decision making to implementing
entities. This facilitates on ground actions.



17
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prepared by: Mahmoud Rawashdeh
Project Coordinator
Reviewed by: Boulos Kefaya
Director, Projects Dept. II
January 1994
Project Implementation Unit
Ministry of Planning
Amman
Acknowledgement
The Ministry of Planning in Jordan would like to extend its deepest appreciation and
gratitude to the World Bank and the donating countries: Canada, Luxembourg, Sweden
and Switzerland, for their support to Jordan during a hard time and unique circumstances.



18
COMMENTS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
WORLD BANK
1.   The Bank Staff were prompt and cooperative, and they did not spare any effort at
all stages of the project: in designing, appraising, preparing, contacting the Donors,
implementation, and follow up. The supervision missions worked hard with the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to implement the project according to the time
schedule and to achieve the project objectives. The project design and resources
allocation was very successful.
2.   The Bank Management was cooperative and flexible in some main issues and
policies like procurement and disbursement procedures which reflected on the
implementation of the project and supported the Implementing Agencies to do their
work fast and smooth.
3.   The World Bank is commended for its effort in contacting and working with the
donors on behalf of the Government of Jordan and solving any problem related to
this project.
4.   The Bank staff supported Jordan in selecting experts, appraised and evaluated their
work especially in Marketing and Export Promotion Component.
5.   Officials from the disbursement division in the Bank visited Jordan twice and
conduct a seminar to train and guide accountants from PIU and Implementing
Agencies. This resulted in improved handling of the project accounts.
6.   The World Bank follow-up and monitoring of the flow of Withdrawal Applications,
payments, evidence of payments and exchange rates, from Donors' Banks to the
Central Bank of Jordan and other Beneficiary Agencies' Banks, were slow and not
at the expected level, therefore, some differences appeared between the accounts
of PIU and the World Bank, and took considerable time to be reconciled.
COMMENTS ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
BORROWER
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established in the Ministry of Planning: to
coordinate with the World Bank and Implementing Agencies. Functions of the PIU are
follow-up of Project's implementation, and handling the project's accounts.
The PIU consisted of a Director, coordinator, accountant and secretary.



19
The PIU staff worked very hard and closely with the World Bank Staff and
concerned agencies to complete the Project within the time schedule and to achieve the
objectives of the project.
The PIU assisted the Implementing Agencies in solving any problem related to
procurement of goods and services, disbursement, and other administrative problems.
The PIU played the role of a counterpart for the World Bank Missions, and provided
all possible support to them, and made arrangements for the meetings and seminars during
the implementation period which lasted from 1991 to 1993.
The PIU checked and processed all Withdrawal Applications, handled the accounts
of the project, delivered all necessary information to the Auditor for the preparing of the
Audit Reports.
The PIU also prepared the Quarterly Reports which included implementation
progress and financial statements. Those reports were forwarded to the World Bank.
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
1.    Education
This component consisted of: Provision of school furniture, textbooks,
construction of sanitary facilities for schools, school maintenance, teacher salaries
and school rental. It was financed by the Government of Jordan, Canada, Sweden
and the World Bank, at a total cost of US$16.5 million. The needs of about
80,000 returnee students were met, with suitable facilities and more than 2000
teachers were recruited to teach them. The Ministry of Education will keep these
teachers in their jobs because their services is needed.
2.   Health
This component consisted of hospitals' maintenance, procurement of
medical equipment maintenance and spare parts, medical staff salaries, and
provision of medicine. This component was financed by Government of Jordan,
Canada, Sweden and World Bank, at a total cost of US$14.4 million. The
incremental medical needs for about 400,000 returnees were met by recruiting
additional medical staff (about 1700 doctors and nurses), procurement of the basic
and urgently needed medicines, the additional burden on the medical equipments
resulted in additional need for maintenance and spare parts. The project's support
in this field was very fruitful.
3.   Water Supply



20
This component consisted of the construction of 20 new wells and the
provision of equipment and materials required to:
a) exploit new water resources
b) increase pumping capacity
c) improve the water distribution system
d) increase the efficiency of operations of the Water Authority
e) improve the sewer system and wastewater treatment facilities.
This component was financed by Switzerland and Luxembourg at a total
cost of US$17 million.
The main objective of the Project is to assist WAJ in providing water and
wastewater services to the returnees and to enhance the quantities of water in
order to meet the unexpected sharp rise in demand.
Nearly all the project's components, with minor modifications, were all
accomplished. WAJ, through this project, was able to enhance the quantities of
water available by an additional 11.85 MCM. These additional quantities were in
no way sufficient to meet the minimum expected demand. Nevertheless, the
Project has provided the only means to tackle such challenging task.
Twenty wells were drilled using WAJ's own limited resources. The Project,
however, has provided most of the materials needed for the completion and
utilization of these new wells. The Project has also provided some equipment for
maintenance to ensure, to certain extent, the continuity of the services.
It is estimated that 400,000 returnees, have directly and indirectly benefited
from this project. Yet the supply deficit incurred by the returnees demand have
forced WAJ to further over pump the scarce water resources consequently
affecting the characteristics of the groundwater aquifers.
4.   Roads Reconstruction and Maintenance
This component consisted of the provision of funds for the maintenance of
the following roads: Amman-Zarqa, Azraq-Zarqa and Jwaideh-Azraq, and
reconstructing some parts of these roads as needed. This component was financed
by the Government of Jordan and Switzerland, at a total cost of US$7.5 million in
addition to US$1.4 million were spent by the Ministry of Public Works to complete
the project. The total length of the above three roads is 1 77 km.
The operation conditions along these highways were upgraded which
resulted in reducing traffic congestion on them. Consequently, the total number of
accidents was reduced considerably, and the project provided 750 job opportunities
of various capabilities and qualifications for one year of implementation.
The Ministry of Public Works is planning to maintain the remaining sections
of the said roads and looking for more support to do that.



21
5.    Public Transport
This component consisted of the provision of spare parts for buses which
were used to transport the Jordanian returnees and other evacuees from the Gulf
Area to their countries, these buses were badly affected, and the project supported
the Public Transport Corporation to put more than 30 buses in operation after
appropriate maintenance, at a total cost of US$1.1 million from the World Bank
Loan.
6.    Food Supplies
The returnees' need for food supplies was very large, and because of
resources' limitation, the project was able to finance only a small part. About
14,000 tons of sugar were procured by the Ministry of Supply costing US$4.5
million and financed from the Swiss Grant.
7.   Imports of Raw Materials and Intermediate Goods
This component was aiming at supporting the productive sectors
(Agriculture and Industry) in order to help these sectors to absorb the returnee
manpower. The project provided about 10% of the estimated need US$88 million
by financing imports of raw materials amounting to US$8.5 million.
8.   Technical Assistance for Export Promotion
JEDCO (MDA)
Project Rationale
Loss of Traditional Markets. Increased Unemployment. Change in Market
Demands. Need to enhance Quality, Delivery, Design, Packaging and Acceptability.
Lack of Private Sector experience in Export Marketing.
Project (MDA) Strategy
-     Improve Quality, Production, Efficiency and Transfer of Technology to
Jordan.
-     Assist Jordanian Manufacturers in identifying new markets and support their
efforts to penetrate them through marketing activities.
-     Create New Exporters and generate more employment opportunities.
-     Promote Jordan as a supplier of high quality exports. (Goods and Services)
-     Develop JEDCO to become an effective Export Promotion Agency.



22
Implementation and Results
US$15 m. Exports, 1100 Man-Years Employment, 34 New
markets/products.
Export Development/Marketing Activities
A)   Development of Export Sectors:
Garment and Leather: (T.A. 47.5 Man-Months, Cost $1.3 m, Product
Development, Test Marketing, Outward/Inward Missions, Trade Fairs, Export
Enquiries $4.5 m.).
Mech. and Elect. Engineering: (T.A. 39 Man-Months, Cost $0.74 m.,
Product Development, Test Marketing, Inward Mission, Export Enquiries
$3.5 m.).
Printing/Packaging: (T.A. 22 Man-Months, Cost $0.5 m., Product
Development).
Traditional/Handicrafts: (T.A. 20 Man-Months, Cost $0.42 m, Product
Development, Test Marketing, Outward Mission, Trade fairs, Export
Enquiries $550,000).
B)   Trade fairs/Exhibitions: France (14 Companies Co.s), Germany (18 Co.s),
Korea (11 Co.s), Tunisia (9 Co.s).
C)   Promotional Publications: Export Directories for (1) Clothing, Textiles,
Leather & Footwear, (2) Food & Beverages, (3) Medical, Pharmaceutical &
Veterinary, (4) Agriculture & Horticulture, (5) Handicrafts & Giftwear, (6)
Chemicals & Raw Materials, (7) Household, (8) Industrial & Commercial, (9)
Services, Brochures for JEDCO, "Investing in Jordan" and Documentary
Films "Jordan By Video".
D)   Market Studies:
CIS Countries (All Sectors). U.K. (Dead Sea Minerals & Cosmetics, Carpets,
Industrial Valves, Handicrafts, Rockwool, Electrical Switches, Sockets,
Circuit Breakers, Drip Irrigation Equipment). Netherlands (Dead Sea
Products, Investment Promotion, Tourism Promotion). African Markets (All
sectors).
E)   Institutional Development:
Chief Technical Advisor helped core MDA Staff, Staff Training,
Database/Market Profiles, Export Seminars, Data Network, and Development
of Strategies.



23
II.    Cash Grant Scheme to Private Companies:
(1 24 companies, in all sectors) 1 7 new markets, 27 first time exporters, 24 market
studies, 22 Co.s in selling missions, 372 new employment opportunities generated.
Ill.   Cash Grant Scheme to Private Organizations
(1 1 Organizations, in all sectors), 1 1 new markets, 10 market studies, 9
organizations in selling missions, 735 new employment opportunities generated.



24
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
I. PROJECT DATA
RVP Unit                              Middle East and North Africa
Sector                               Emergency Assistance Operation
Borrower                             Government of Jordan
Executing Agencies                    Ministries of Planning, Health, Supplies,
Public Works, Education, Water Authority
of Jordan, Jordan Export Development &
Commercial Centers Corporation and
Public Transport Corporation
Fiscal Year of Borrower              January 1 - December 31
II. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                 Date Planned                   Date Actual
* Identification (EPS)                 10/29/90                      10/29/90
* Preparation                          11/17/90                      11/17/90
* Appraisal Mission                    01/07/91                      01/07/91
* Loan Negotiations                    02/25/91                      02/25/91
* Board Approval                       03/21/91                      03/21/91
* Loan Signature                         NA                          05/14/91
* Loan Effectiveness                   05/30/91                      05/30/91
* Project Completion                     NA                            NA
* Loan Closing                         10/31/93                      10/31/93



25
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
None
m. Loan Disbursements
($ Million, Cumulative)
FY91    ------FY92-----    ---FY93---           --FY94-
IV       II       IV        II        IV        II       IV
Appraisal                    3.0       6.0      8.0       9.5      10.0    10.0
Actual                       0.0       3.3      8.1       9.8      10.0    10.0 a
% Disbursement Target         0        55       101      103        99       100
Memo: Associated Grant
Disbursements
Luxembourg                   0         0        1.3
Sweden                       0         4.5      6.7       8.3       9.5
Canada                       0         2.1      8.7
Switzerland                  0        0       11.4      23.5       32.2    37.6       40.0 b
/a A final sum of S15,864 was reconciled and disbursed on 12/29/93.
/b A final withdrawal application will disburse the reconciled balance of the Swiss Grant.



26
IV. Project Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Costa              Appraisal Cost Estimates           Actual Expenditures
Local    Foreign    Totalb     Local    Foreign       Total
-----------(US$ million)------------    -----------(US$ million)---
1. Education Sector                  8.4       6.9      15.3        8.5        8.0         16.5
2. Health Sector                     4.6       3.8       8.4        6.2        8.0         14.2
3. Water Supply and Sewerage         0.0      17.8      17.8        0.0       17.5         17.5
4. Highway Sector                    2.2       4.4       6.5        3.6        3.9          7.5
5. Public Transport Sector           0.0       5.0       5.0        0.0        1.1          1.1
Total Base Costb                    15.1      38.0      53.1
Physical Contingencies               0.5       3.8       4.3
Price Contingencies                  0.7       1.9       2.6
Expanded
6. Essential Food Supplies                                                     4.5          4.5
7. Essential Raw Material Imports                                              8.0          8.8
8. Exports (Technical Assistance)                                              5.0          5.0
Total Project Costb                 16       43.7       60.0       1,                      75.2
/a Exclusive of taxes and duties.
/b Totals may not add up due to rounding.



27
Financing Plan                       Appraisal Estimates                      Actual
Local    Foreign    Totalb        Local      Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)---- - -     -----(US$ million) --
Bank                               4.2        5.8        10.0          4.3       5.7         10.0
Switzerland                        0.8       24.2        25.0          2.9      37.1         40.0
Sweden                             5.0        5.0        10.0          6.5       3.0          9.6
Canada                             0.0        7.3         7.3          0.0       8.7          8.7
Luxembourg                         0.0        1.3         1.3          0.0       1.3          1.3
Govermment                         6.4        0.0         6.4a         5.8       0.0          5.6
Totalb                             16.3      43.7        60.0         19.5      56.2         75.2
/a Including local taxes and duties of US$2 million equivalent.
/b Totals may not add up due to rounding.
V. Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
'Preparation                     62.5
'Appraisal                        11.3
'Negotiations                      5.0
'Supervision
FY91                             9.7
FY92                            18.1
FY93                            29.7
FY94                             3.8
'Completion                       10.0



28
VI. Field Mission Dates
Month/Year        No. of      Days in    Perfonnance Rating
Persons      Field             Status
*Appraisal                           Nov.-Dec. 90           8a          15                NA
'Disbursement Mission                May 91                 1            6                NA
'Supervision
(1)                                June 91               2b            5                 2
(2)                                Aug. 91               2             18                 1
(3)                                Dec. 91               2c             5                 1
(4) Implementation Review          March 92              3cd           15                 1
(5)                                July 92                2c            2                 1
(6)                                Sept. 92               1d           10               NA
(7)                                March 93               id            8               NA
(8)                                April 93               IC            9                 1
'Project Completion                  Dec. 93                1           20                NA
/a Task Manager, Economist, Transport Economist, Urban Planner, Country Officer, and Agriculture Economist.
/b Task Manager and Procurement Specialist.
/c Task Manager and Operations Officer
/d Textile Specialist to supervisc TA.
Le Task Manager with Disbursement Officer and Analyst.



29
VII. Compliance With Loan Covenants
Original
Section    Status     Date          Description of Covenant             Comments
L.A.       OK       5/14/91   Government will appropriately  Full compliance.
3.01(a)                       implement the project.
L.A.       OK       5/14/91   A project coordination unit    The PCU has been
3.01(b)                        (PCU) will monitor progress and   especially successful in
coordinate implementation; a   coordinating and
high-level task force will provide   monitoring numerous
general oversight and policy  implementing agencies and
guidance.                      expediting project-related
payments.
L.A.       OK       5/14/91   The Government will maintain   The PCU maintained and
4.01(a)                        adequate project accounts.     regularly updated project
accounts.
L.A.       OK       5/14/91   The Government shall (i) have  The first audit report
4.01(b)                        project accounts audited by    covering the period to
independent auditors; (ii) furnish   December 31, 1991 was
the audit report within six months  due on June 30, 1992 but
of fiscal year-end to the Bank;    forwarded to the Bank on
and (iii) furnish any other    September 1, 1992.
relevant information as requested.  Although 3 months late it
covered accounts till June
30, 1992, well ahead of
the requirement. The
second report forwarded
on June 19, 1993 covered
accounts until April
30,1993. The last is not
due till June 30, 1994.
L.A.       OK       5/14/91   The Government will maintain   The March, 1993 mission
4.01(c)                        reliable and adequate supporting   reviewed documentation
documentation to support claims   supporting the statement
for withdrawals from the loan  of expenses and found
account.                      them to be accurate and
reliable.






31
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
Key Indicators'
Appraisal Pan                        Actual
Project Coordination Unit
Quarterly progress reports to the Bank           October 15, 1991      October 15, 1991 (A)
January 15, 1992      January 15, 1992 (A)
April 15, 1992        April 15, 1992 (A)
July 15, 1992 
October 15, 1992      October 15, 1992 (A)
January 15, 1993      JEDCO progress reports; PIU accts. (A)
April 15, 1993        JEDCO progress reports; PIU accts. (A)
Annual audit reports                             April 1992            September 1992 (A)
April 1993            June 1993 (A)
December 1993         Due June 1994
Semi-annual review meetings                     January 1992           ----
June 1992             July 1992 (A)
January 1993          December (A)
Project Completion Report                        December 1993         March 1993
Water Authority of Jordan
Procurement Timetable For New Tenders
Bank review                                   September 15, 1991    Done
Advertise/issue documents                     September 30, 1991    Done
Bid opening                                   October 30, 1991      November 23-December 3, 1991
Evaluation                                    December 15, 1991     November 19922
Awards                                        January 10, 1992       November 1992
First payment                                 March/April 1992      May 1992
Final payment                                 August 1992           April 1994 (A)
Ministry of Education
Procurement Documents and Service Contracts for Sanitary Equipment and School Maintenance
Preparation of appropriate documentation      September 1-15, 1991   Done on schedule
Transmittal of information to the Bank        September 20, 1991     Maintenance contracts awarded; first
(procurement methods used, target dates,                             payment October 1991
disbursement estimates)



32
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
Appraisal Pan                        Actual
Target Dates for Furniture
Information on delivery dates and disbursement   September 15, 1991  Delivered September 1992; first payment
estimates submitted to the Bank                                      January 1993
Ministry of Health
Awards of Equipment Maintenance Contracts
Disbursement of $700,000 to RSS for service      August-October 1991    $642,850 disbursed
contract
Direct contracts to be awarded for spare parts for    October 15, 1991  March 1992 (A); first payment January
10 X-ray units; two Gamma cameras, and                                 1993
computer system at the Supplies and Stores
Department
Tenders issued for maintenance and spare parts for   October 15, 1991  March 1992 (A); first payment January
the linear accelerator in Al Basheer Hospital; 15                       1993
steam boilers in the Ministry hospitals; laundry
and kitchen equipment in hospitals/nursing
institutes
Transmittal of information to the Bank on the    October 20, 1991      Final report April 30, 1993 (A)
actions taken and amounts disbursed or to be
disbursed
Tenders issued for maintenance and spare parts for   December, 1991    January 1992 (A)
electronic, dental, medical laboratory, and
photocopying machines
Transmittal of information to the Bank on the    December 5, 1991      Final report April 30, 1993
actions taken and amounts disbursed or to be
disbursed
Ministry of Supply
Estimated Procurement Schedule
Bank review                                   September 9, 1991      October 1991
Advertise/issue documents                     September 15, 1991    January 15, 1992
Bid opening                                   November 12, 1991      February 1, 1992
Evaluation                                    November 5, 1991       February 5, 1992
Award                                         November 10, 1991      February 15, 1992
First disbursement                            November 20, 1991      March 1992
Final disbursement                            January 1992           May 1994'



13
Attachment I
Page 3 of 3
Appraisal Pan                         Actual
Ministry of Public Works
Estimated Procurement Schedule
Bank review                                    September 7, 1991      September 1991
Advertise/issue documents                      September 15, 1991     October 1991
Bid opening                                    November 1, 1991       November 1991
Evaluation                                     November 25, 1991      December 4, 1991
Award                                          November 31, 1991      January 1992
First disbursement                             December 1991          March 1992 (A)
Final disbursement                             February 1993          March 1993 (A)
Public Transport Corporation
Transmittal to the Bank of the delivery dates and  September 15, 1991    In progress report January 5, 1992; first
disbursement schedule for spare parts                                    payment March 1992 (A); last payment
($1.1 million)                                                           December 1992 (A)
Jordan Commercial Centers Corporation
Steering Committee approves policies and                                 December 19, 1991
procedures
Executive Committee and MDA Unit become                                  December 20, 1991
operative
Wide advertisement of project grant facility on                          January 15, 1992
radio, TV and in journals/newspapers
Submnit a comprehensive progress report to PCU                           January 7, 1992
For later targets, plans and actions refer to periodic progress reports of JCCC.
1/ In order to facilitate reconciliation of Swiss Grant accounts, PIU proposed and Bank accepted the arrangement to
partially disburse against an eligible application approved on April 30, 1994, but which has been kept open for complete
disbursement of the final remaining amount after reconciliation with Swiss Government.



3 
JORDAN                       ATTACHMENT II
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT. 1991-1993
Iin US $ 000's I
Finaced by:
Project
Govt.   Switz.   Canada   Sweden        Lux.  W.Bank          Total
Core Project Comoonents
Education
Furniture                      772                         1,158                            1,930
Textbooks                                        5,849                                     5,849
Sanitary eqp.                                      147     1,002                            1,150
Maintenance                     93                           438                             531
Teacher salaries               575                         2,453               2,782        5,810
School rental                 1,310                                                         1,310
2.750              5.997     5.051               2.782       16.579
Health
Maintenance                    654                         1,158                            1,812
Maint. supplies                                               16                               16
Health salaries                436                         2,461               1,461       4,358
Medicines                                        2,440       916               4,683       8,039
1.089              2.440    4.552                6.144      14.225
Water Supply Equipment                  15.632                         1 287                16.919
Road Reconstruction           1699      5.785                                             7L484 1/
Public Transport Spare Parts                                                    1.099 1099
Sub-tota:        5,538    21,417     8,437     9,603     1,287    10,025      56,305
Expanded Project Components
Food Supplies                            4.457                                               4.457
Raw Material Imports                     8.642                                               8,642 2/
Exgort Related T.A.                      5.000                                               5 000
Unallocated                      105      484 2/   256                                        845
Sub-total          105    18.583       m                                      182944
Total Proiect                  5,643   40,000      8,693     9,603     1,287    10,025      75,249
USD 40m  1C$0r m SEK60Or.L$,.4Q0nr   USPIOM
Notes:
1/Ministry of Public Works expended additional $1.4 million to complete road repairs.
2/Final balances, to be determined after reconciling Swiss Grant, World Bank and PIU accounts
with payments in process, are proposed to be utilized for essential raw material imports.
Source: mission estimates, November 15, 1993



35
Attachment III
COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS



a8. JUN '4 ' 3: IL SID4 REN- 46 8t 3 3              46 8 152273
36
16 June, 1994
Asia & Middle East Secretariat
J L6vkrona
Barbara Kafka
Chief, MN2IE
World Bank
Washington
Your ref.                                    Our ref.
Re: Jordan Emcrgencv Recovery Project - Project Completion
Report
Dear Ms Kafka,
Thank you for the excellent report on the Emergcncy Recovcry
Project in Jordan. It was indeed very interesting reading.
The project seems to me a very successful cxamplc of what
gooddonor coordination is worth. Once again we are reminded
of te importance of local Government commitment in
combinlation with donor flexibility and early involvemcnt.
Best rega ds,
4tteAndersson
Head of Asia Secretariat
MENA-CD2
Lndustry and Emv
Ln/Credit No.___
Project ___
P.sigrnc. . :2   c     
COPY t0:  L         -
S 195 25 STCU'KHOLM. ZWCttFN   idg.4gzlcr OI  N.,  3J723 51 t50  do  r 573 21 41   1 Ig - 9
,nt t4E,6 d7i  00



1': 4J    BAW. ENTWICKLUNGSDIENST -   -_ '7 37  16':1                    b&2. L82    ;
37
Telefax
M,ENA-CD-
Federal Office for Forei6n FWIomic Affairs                     Lidusri ar.d Energy,
Developnmit Puicy Service / Flxianaal Seetion I                      -  - .:t27
Bundeshaw Ost / EMngerstrasw 113                    LniCr dit N.:).:     
3003 Bene                                           t-me:
Berne. June 24, 1994                                .oC'd:      K<J   LK,..
292  0041-31-322 26 39                             j.-vi -ned to:
Fax  0041-31-322 48 86                     The W        Ic"ank Di.ision C.ef
attnM .    ai s            
Your ref.:                                 Washin ton          EsINA Files
USA   IWton:
Our ref.: 3/5/10 -de do
Nuumber of pages: 1
(including cover sheet)                    Fax no. l 2l202 477-16W 91i
Jordan - Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Tribhuwan
We thank you very much for having sent us the above mentioned report. Based on our
conmnents (our discussion by phone on June 23, 1994), we think that the report is most
useful for us and includes a very good overview for what kind of purpose the Swiss
contribution in the cofinancing of the JERP was used and what kind of effects resulted
out of it. I do appreciate the existing links and follow up, based on the initiative and work
of our Embassy in Amman and the use of the counterpart fund in local curTency (out of
debt reduction), among others, for JEDCO.
We therefore thank you also for having facilitated the comrnunication and for your
openess in this regard.
Yours sincerely
Roger Denzer
Financial Section II
cc: Embassy in Amman



JUN -1 '94 01:2p-  .m W`I1E                          215 PO1      P 2'
a  0  AgRmAnce canadienne de    Canadban International  Nombre de pes
ti fopPement internsuonal Development Agency  betR o     1
200. owomenae cw Poraoe  200 P   .nwce du Peto:oe
HUlL (OX,Oct      H1LUI oueec
CANAOA            CANADA
K1A OA            K1 A 0A4
to (IW&V   -cw et
1994-6-21                                        f r,taP, ea
T&ACOPIN  //1  FAX BFE316
A  BARBARA IKATJA, C-IEP INDUSTRY   ENERGY DIVISION
tOd  TRIBHUWIW  NARAIN, OPERATIONS OFFICER, WORLD BANX
T F'copieur-Fax (1-202-0 %)
DE  PIT-E P   HEROUX                    9
fPt  fIDA BFE
T6I1;.-Tel. (819) 997-2274      T61copieur-Fax (819). 994-0251
SM la  JQlAN  RGRIIQCY RECOVERY PROJXECT - COMIPLETION REPORT
Further to your fax of June 7, I have read the completion
rpport and I agree with it.  It was pleasing to see in the
zeport that the Ministry of Planning had developed a more
eiffective understanding of coordinating donor financed
a.o2taflVG.
I' would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Bank
for its  ole in thie project and its collaboration.
ierre a roux
uiior Project Officer
North Africa and Middle-East Program
ritca az4 MiddJle East Branch
819-997-2274
Canaa



39
June 1-, 1994
Ms.Barbara Kafka
Chief
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department II
Middle East & North Africa Region
Re. Jordan Emergency Recovery Project - Project Completion Report
Dear Ms. Kafka,
I thank you very much for having sent me the project completion report for
the above mentioned project, which I can fully endorse. I will send this
report to my authorities to Luxembourg to inform them about the most recent
developments.
Sincerely 
Jer6me Hamilius
Assistant to Executive Director



