FILE Copy                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2213-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENPATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
BUKIT ASAM-COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION-ENGINEERING PROJECT
ApriL 24, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Rp
US$1           =  Rp 415
Rp 1           =  US$0.0024
ABBREVIATIONS
PNB        -   P.N. Batubara, the state coal enterprise.
PJKA       -   Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the
Indonesian State railways
PLN        -   Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, the electric
power authority
PANN       -   National Fleet Development Company
PMG        -   Project Management Group (KP5BA)
PSC        -   Project Services Contractor
MW         -   Megawatts
BAPPENAS   -   National Planning Council
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                US$10.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                 Repayable in 10 years, including 3 years of grace,
through semi-annual installments with interest at 7.5%
per annum. The loan would be refinanced under any
later loan or credit that the Bank or the Association
might make to implement the Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transportation Project (the Project).
Prolect Description:  The engineering project will:   (i) establish the tech-
nical and economic viability of the Project in terms
of substituting coal from the Bukit Asam mine for oil
at competitive cost to be used for electricity genera-
tion at Suralaya; (ii) determine the optimal mining and
transport system; (iii) recommend the institutional
arrangements and training required for executing the
Project and strengthening the various operating
entities; and (iv) complete the detailed engineering
and procurement documentation for the Project. The
engineering loan will resolve the outstanding questions
regarding the economic viability of coal substitution
and prepare for the implementation of an integrated
coal mine - transportation expansion project, which
will ensure the delivery of approximately 2.5 million
tons of coal per annum from South Sumatera, to a
dual-fired (coal/oil) power plant to be located
in Java, with a power generation capacity of 750 MW,
thus substituting for 9 million barrels of oil per annum.
An Indonesian Project Management Group (PMG), assisted
by technical and legal specialists, will represent and
coordinate the participation of the power, mining and
transport operating entities, and will supervise the
Project Services Contractor (PSC) employed to evaluate
and engineer the Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost Estimates:        The estimated costs of the proposed engineering project
are as follows:
Local   Foreign    Total
----- US$ million
Project Management Group (PMG)       1.86    0.25      2.11
Technical Assistance                 0.21    0.98      1.19
Legal Assistance                        -    0.05      0.05
Project Services Contractor (PSC)    0.66    6.90       7.56
Physical Contingencies               0.13    1.00       1.13
Price Contingencies                  0.11    1.07      1.18
Total Project Costs            2.97    10.25     13.22
Financing Plan:                                 Local      Foreign     Total
------- US$ million -------
Bank loan                -     10.00        10.00
Government            2.97       0.25        3.22
Total            2.97     10.25        13.22
Estimated Disbursements:                           Bank FY     1979   1980
(US$ millions)
Annual                              4.90   5.10
Cumulative                         4.90   10.00
Appraisal Report:          There is no separate appraisal report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
engineering loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of
$10.0 million to help finance the preparation of a feasibility study, and the
detailed design and engineering required for the Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transportation Project (the Project). The loan would have a term of ten
years including three years of grace with interest at 7.5% p.a. The loan
would be refinanced under any later loan or credit that the Bank or the
Association might make to implement the Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:     Recent Develop-
ments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND) described the
recovery of the economy from world recession and the financial troubles
of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some of the important
development issues which the country faces in the next few years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74),/2 the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed.
Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after
years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural
output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of
modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period,
the annual rate of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and
investments also rose rapidly.
4.         With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and public
concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first two
years of the Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
/1  This part is an updated version of the one contained in the President's
Report No. P-2257-IND, dated March 15, 1978, for the Small Enterprise
Development Project.
/2 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



- 2 -
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. Foreign
bank credit became more restrictive with the onset of world recession.
Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the
financial obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the
Government stepped in and assumed the oil company's obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
5.        In most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis
well, and the following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) witnessed a substan-
tial improvement in the balance of payments and the Government's budgetary
position as well as a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation. During
1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly (following improvements in
the world economy), and rose to a higher level than anticipated. Imports
continued to increase rapidly but the rate of increase of import prices
slowed down, and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. These trends continued
into 1977/78, and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange
reserves, which have averaged over $2 billion (or about four months of
imports) in the early months of 1978.
6.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exoorts and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while the current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 10%.
7.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.5 trillion (or about
$6 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 22.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; economic growth in the first four years of
Indonesia's Second Development Plan (1974/75-1976/77) has, in fact, been
slower than that in the First Plan period. The world recession, slackening



- 3 -
agricultural output and domestic inflation (which made some domestic industries
uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on the growth of the
economy. In addition, public investments in recent years have been concentrated
on relatively capital-intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with
long gestation periods. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from
investments in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc.,
depends on the growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth
of the rest of the economy, mainly the private sector, which has failed to
provide the necessary momentum to growth. The indications are that private
investments rose only modestly in recent years for a number of reasons,
including the Government's attempts to control domestic inflation and to
encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors, and the uncertain state of the
world economy.
8.        Reliable data on recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate close to 1.2 million persons a
year, but the current level of unemployment and the extent of underemployment
are not known. However, there is no indication that the labor market has
tightened or that the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace
with domestic inflation. Labor productivity and wages remain extremely low,
particularly in Java. On the other hand, the Government's efforts at family
planning appear to have yielded impressive results. Preliminary estimates
from an inter-censal survey in 1976 indicate that the birth rate in Java and
Bali has significantly declined since 1971. Nevertheless, population pressure
continues to increase on Java where an expanding work force, combined with a
limited supply of arable land, has already resulted in fragmented farms with
very low labor productivity, which has made farming a part-time activity.
Viable transmigration programs to open up new areas outside Java and programs
to create off-farm rural employment in Java are essential both to provide job
opportunities to new entrants into the labor force and to improve the produc-
tivity for the majority of the currently employed.
9.        Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years, and one with
important long-term implications, is the slackening in the rate of growth in
agricultural production, particularly of rice. Over the 1975-77 period, rice
output failed to rise appreciably; for 1977, rice production is estimated at
15.2 million tons, down 4% from the previous year, and over 10% below the
second plan target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept
stable only by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports
amounted to 1.6 million tons and in 1977/78 they are expected to reach 2.6 mil-
lion tons, or over 15% of domestic consumption and 30% of total world trade in
rice. The stagnation in rice output over the last two years, while reflecting
a complex of institutional and policy constraints, is primarily the result of
successive droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation.
The Government is taking steps to remedy the bottlenecks in the supply of
agricultural inputs, but may have to further adjust the price ratio of rice
to fertilizer to encourage fertilizer use. However, long-term expansion of
food crop production and a substantial reduction in rice imports, require
prompt assessment of available land and water resources, accelerated construc-
tion of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration in land settlement
and transmigration programs based on food crop production and, most impor-
tantly, expansion and deepening of agricultural support services.



- 4 -
10.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1975 and 1976 has raised the level of debt
service, which is now projected to reach $1.6 billion in 1978 or more than
18% of projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does not take
into account the $255.8 million settlement in the dispute over the hire -
purchase contracts for tankers, which is to be repaid in four equal annual
installments in 1977-80, interest free. However, a large cash loan made by
a syndicate of private banks in 1975 to help resolve the Pertamina crisis
was recently rolled over on more favorable terms. This provides an indication
of Indonesia's improved creditworthiness rating on international capital
markets and should also help reduce Indonesia's debt service ratio to under
15% by 1980. The Government has continued to exercise prudence in undertaking
new foreign commercial debt, and total external borrowing in 1977 remained well
within the limit of $2 billion that had been recommended in the last Bank
Economic Report. At the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
(IGGI) in April 1977, aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources
were made. The likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did
not pledge, from the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European
countries should raise the total of official development assistance to
$1.5 billion.
11.       Net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline from
$1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about $640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5%
to 1% of GNP. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that crude
oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 million
barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although the
Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
12.       The implication of recent developments for imports, net foreign
exchange earnings and future capital inflow requirements are currently under
study, but indications are that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer
over the coming years, Indonesia would be able to finance essential imports
of consumer, intermediate and capital goods and still meet its debt service
obligations. However, the relative decline in oil revenues will have serious
budgetary consequences. In order to maintain the relatively high rate of
domestic investment already reached, the Government would need to raise
substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming years. The Government
has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not
appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in fact, rise



-5-
in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in
Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of
which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's efforts
to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is likely to
be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
13.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and will make them the focus of
the Third Development Plan which is now under preparation. In the meantime
the Bank is undertaking a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia, covering in depth such issues as domestic and foreign resource
mobilization, as well as trends and outlook for agricultural growth, popula-
tion, employment, and income distribution. This review is expected to assist
the Government's deliberations and preparation of the Third Plan; the final
report will be ready towards the end of 1978.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
14.      As of March 31, 1978, Indonesia had received 38 IDA credits
totalling $601.8 million and 31 Bank loans amounting to $1,526 million. At
that date, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end
of 1976 was about 6% and the share of debt service, less than 1%. By 1978,
these ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments
as of February 28, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide inputs and advice to farmers and to promote
agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group. More
recently, a major effort to aid the Government's transmigration program has
been initiated. In the industrial sector, the major thrust has been on
expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and
on establishment and improvement of development finance institutions. The
main emphasis in education has been on improving primary and secondary
education and manpower training as well as on expanding non-formal education.
In the social sector, the Bank Group has also financed urban development,
through neighborhood improvement programs, urban water supplies and family
planning and nutrition. A major portion of Bank Group financing has been
used to rehabilitate and expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure,
particularly in the power and transportation sectors as well as in tele-
communications and tourism. Finally, the Bank Group has assisted the Govern-
ment's efforts to prepare and formulate its development programs and projects
through four technical assistance credits and a loan for a natural resource
survey and mapping project.



- 6 -
16.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA credit in 1968
for irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on loans and credits, which were slow in the early years,
are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian authorities have also become
increasingly aware of the cost to the country of delays in project execution,
caused by cumbersome procedures, and the need to establish an effective
control system in Bappenas (the National Development Planning Agency). At
the Government's request, the Bank arranged in 1974, for assistance under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring
and control system which is now in operation and which should lead to
improved project implementation not only of Bank Group-assisted projects but
of development projects generally.
17.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work opportun-
ities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and which will increase agriculture production particularly of food
crops. Major efforts are needed to increase employment through programs
directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and their living standards;
these are expected to be the major focus of the Third Development Plan
(1979-84) which is now under preparation. To assist the Government, the Bank
Group has undertaken a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia (mentioned above, para. 13). This review should help the Govern-
ment formulate policies and programs to expand food production, further
reduce population growth, and expand nonfarm rural employment, particularly
in Java. While some of these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank
Group financing, it will be some time before they are ready for implementation.
Meantime, the Bank Group proposes to finance a number of already prepared
projects and project components designed to increase non-agricultural employ-
ment in rural areas and small towns. These include small enterprise
development and integrated rural development projects. With respect to
agriculture development, projects are being prepared which would improve and
expand agriculture credit, research and extension services, rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut
plantations, and develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java
for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the population
program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of particular
importance for Bank Group assistance will be improvement of urban services
through construction of urban water supply systems and further expansion of
neighborhood improvement programs, and improvement and expansion of higher
education particularly of technicians, accountants and agriculture specialists,
as well as primary and secondary education. Finally, Bank Group financing
continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastructure
rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which will
continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development.
18.      Between 1968 and 1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA
terms. Following the rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled
Indonesia to borrow on less concessional terms, it was decided that all
lending to Indonesia after June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms.    Since 1974,



- 7 -
the Government has saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil
revenues and greatly expanded its development expenditures which are expected
to reach about $6 billion in 1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above,
it now appears, however, that both the budgetary and balance of payments
situation is again likely to become more difficult in the years ahead. Thus,
while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance on concessional terms on
grounds of its low per capita income ($240 in 1977) and the quality of its
economic management, such terms are now also necessary to enable it to
maintain a high level of investment without impairing its ability to service
its external debt. The Bank has accordingly informed the Government that
from now on it will provide a portion of its lending on IDA terms.
19.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to time,
DP=t of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time , the Government
is attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employment-
creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture and the
social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency. The Bank
Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall develop-
ment effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects, and future Bank Group financing will, therefore, include increasing
amounts for local costs particularly in the case of projects designed to
create nonfarm employment, provide social services and raise agriculture
production.
20.      The proposed loan is the fifth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $239 million. Projects for rural credit, irrigation
and nucleus estates and smallholders are expected to be ready for presenta-
tion in the next several months.
PART III - SECTORS AND SUBSECTORS
The Energy Sector
21.       After the sharp increase in oil prices in 1973, oil became
Indonesia's largest export earner. Recently, however, the oil reserve/output
ratio has tended to decline and is causing increasing concern as the
limits of the Indonesian oil reserves have become bet'ter known. Meantime,
starting from one of the lowest per capita energy consumption levels in the
world, Indonesia's domestic fuel consumption is increasing at 17-20% per
annum. Currently, 80% of the electricity produced in Indonesia is based on
oil-fired facilities consuming approximately 14'imillion barrels of oil per
annum. The prospect of declining oil exports as a result of stagnating oil
production and rapidly increasing domestic consumption poses a serious
challenge to Indonesia's development planners, and calls for a restructuring
of the use of domestic energy resources.



- 8 -
22.       The Government has begun to address the implications of these
developments and there is increasing concern with the optimal use of
Indonesia's several alternative sources of energy - oil, natural gas, coal,
hydroelectric and geothermal. The hydroelectric potential is estimated to be
large (31,000 MW), of which only 1.5Z is presently utilized. With few
exceptions, however, the unfavorable location of the potential hydroelectric
sites and the long gestation periods involved limit hydroelectric development
in the near future. A small pilot geothermal plant (30 MW) is to be set up
in Java in collaboration with New Zealand; if successful, it could lead to
the development of an important nonfuel energy source in Java, Sumatera and
Sulawesi. Current production of oil is about 1.7 million barrels per day
while annual production of natural gas is about 20 billion cubic meters,
mainly for export in liquified form, but also for domestic production of
fertilizer and petrochemicals.
23.       So far the Government has not developed an overall energy policy,
however, and many complex questions need to be examined in the framework of a
comprehensive long-term energy strategy to utilize optimally the vast and
diverse domestic sources of energy. These include fuel diversification,
setting of fuel prices to reflect their economic cost, incentive systems to
guide energy suppliers towards an evolving national least-cost system,
increase of energy supply in rural areas and for rural industries, and
conservation measures to avoid wasteful consumption. The Government has
recently requested Bank assistance in studying some aspects of the energy
sector and the Bank intends to look into them.
24.       One element of an emerging energy sector strategy is the Govern-
ment's decision to use coal as fuel for domestic electricity generation,
whenever economically feasible. Coal is Indonesia's main potential oil-
substitute; mineable coal reserves are estimated by the Indonesian Department
of Mines to be about 2.6 billion tons, but indicated reserves are up to
10 billion tons. The rehabilitation and expansion of the Bukit Asam coal
mine is the first project designed to substitute coal for oil to be used at
the first major dual-fired power plant in Indonesia. Although an overall
energy policy for Indonesia is lacking, this project is likely to represent a
viable component of any such policy if proven to be economically feasible.
At present, P.N. Batubara, the only major supplier-of coal, operates unprofit-
ably and needs financing to expand production rapidly. Actual coal production
has fallen from 2.0 million tons in 1940 to under 200,000 tons in 1977. The
project will also enable the Government to examine realistically the economics
of substitution and the operational decisions necessary to start the use of
coal for electricity generation. This experience will provide a basis for
formulating general energy policies and for implementing further coal mining
projects and coal-fired power plants.
25.       In the course of project preparation, a series of questions
arose regarding the variability of coal quality, the recoverable reserves,
the reliability and efficiency of the different transport systems to deliver
the coal to the power plant, and, hence, the most likely cost for delivered
coal and the economic viability of substituting coal for oil (at competitive



- 9 -
cost) for power generation at Suralaya in order to supply the Java power
market. Previous studies proved to be insufficient to answer precisely these
questions and to define the optimal configuration of the mining and transpor-
tation systems. In addition, the successful implementation of the Project
requires close coordination of the activities at several public sector agencies
and ministries, covering the power, mining and transport sectors. The complex-
ity of the organizational and contractual arrangements during the preparation
and implementation of the Project demands careful organizational design, tech-
nical assistance, manpower planning and training. The proposed engineering
loan will therefore be concerned with establishing the economic viability of
coal substitution, determining an optimal mining and transport system, and
with strengthening and coordinating the various operating entities in the
power, mining and transport sectors to achieve an effectively operating
integrated system.
The Power Sector
26.       The public power sector is managed by Perusahaan Umum Listrik
Negara (PLN), a Government-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Mines and
Energy, which is statutorily responsible for all generation, transmission,
and distribution of electricity in Indonesia. The Bank has assisted PLN with
three credits and four loans to rehabilitate and expand its power generation
and distribution facilities. Due to inadequate and unreliable public power
supplies, approximately 50% of the country's power output is currently being
supplied by small, uneconomical, privately owned diesel generating stations.
In 1977/78 Indonesia had an installed electricity generating capacity of
approximately 3,000 megawatts (MW) L1, of which about 80% was based on
oil-fired facilities. If the engineering project determines that coal can be
economically substituted for oil for power generation at Suralaya, this will
be the next generating facility to be developed. Together with other power
generating plants to be constructed by PLN during 1978-85, the Suralaya plant
is expected to meet the bulk of the overall growth in power demand and to
increase PLN's share of the market to about 80% by 1985.
The Mining Sector
27.       Government mining policy, as implemented by the Ministry of Mines,
recognizes that the country's mineral potential cannot be quickly     realized
without a substantial contribution by foreign capital and technical know-how.
The Government encouraged the activities of large foreign mining companies in
Indonesia during the 1970s, and a number of contracts of work have been
signed with such groups. Exploration contracts covering over one half
million square kilometers, or more than 25% of the country's total land
area, have been let by the Government. New discoveries include extensive
lignitic coal deposits in Banko and surrounding areas of south Sumatera.
However, market constraints relating to coal quality and lengthy project lead
times have so far limited the development of these resources.
/i Including an estimated 1,500 MW of captive plant.



- 10 -
28.       P.N. Tambang Batubara (PNB), the state-owned coal enterprise, was
formed in 1970 and presently operates two coal mines: the Ombilin mine in
west Sumatera, and the Bukit Asam mine in south Sumatera. The Bukit Asam
mine is PNB's most important operation with present production at 150,000 tons
and a planned output of 2.5 million tons annually after completion of the
Project. PNB is party to a production sharing contract with Shell Mijnbouw
N.V. of the Netherlands which resulted in a substantial exploration program
in south Sumatera and the delineation of major new coal fields in the area.
The development of the Shell concessions is presently technically less
advanced than Bukit Asam, and the company recently deferred plans to develop
a major mine awaiting sales contracts to provide steam coal to Japan and
other Asian markets and to other domestic power plants presently in the
planning stage. The proposed expansion of PNB's Bukit Asam mine will
be the first Bank Group-assisted project in Indonesia's mining sector.
.he Transport Sector
29.       Railways.  The Indonesian State Railways (PJKA) operates an exten-
sive railway system in Java, where most of the railway traffic is located,
and three separate systems in Sumatera, of which the one in South Sumatera
has the longest routes currently in operation (about 650 km). In addition to
coal, the south Sumatera system carries considerable quantities of construc-
tion stone and petroleum. There are good prospects for freight traffic
increases based on a large cement plant currently under construction at
Baturaja, and on stepped up agricultural production in the south part of the
island. The railway will also serve the inflow of transmigrants to settlement
areas in Southern Sumatera. The proposed engineering loan will include a
careful assessment of the transportation needs of the Project and the region
as a whole to ensure that, despite the severe management and financial
problems experienced by PJKA in recent years, the South Sumatera railways
system will be able to move coal as needed at reasonable cost and that PJKA
will have available to it all the technical assistance required for this
purpose.
30.       Maritime.  The Directorate General of Sea Communications supervises
shipping and ports. Depending on which rail-sea route is found to be more
economical, the Project will include the rehabilitation of a coal loading
installation near Palembang or the building of a new facility near Panjang.
It will also include the strengthening of shipping operations to transport
coal in barges from Sumatera to Java.
PART IV - THE ENGINEERING PROJECT
Project History
31.       In 1976 the Bank was requested by the Indonesian Government to
assist with the preparation of a project to mine and transport coal from
Bukit Asam in South Sumatera to a dual fired (coal/oil) electricity generation
facility to be located at Suralaya on the western tip of Java. Since that
time the Government of Indonesia has undertaken a number of studies to define



- 11 -
the coal reserves and to select the ideal mine and transport configuration
for the Project. While drilling has indicated the probable existence of
sufficient coal reserves for about 25 years of production at the proposed
rate of 2.5 million tons per annum, there are nevertheless certain issues
relating to the determination of the coal reserves and coal quality variations,
the selection of a mining system, the delineation of a mining plan, and the
choice of the optimal transportation configuration that have not yet been
satisfactorily resolved. Resolution of these issues is necessary to determine
the economic viability of using Bukit Asam coal for electricity generation at
the Suralaya power plant. Consequently it has been agreed with the Govern-
ment that further work is required to resolve these issues and to prepare a
deta4.ied feasibility report before the Project can be appraised by the Bank.
The proposed engineering project is designed to resolve the outstanding
-.estions and to prepare the Project for implementation.   The appraisal
mission for the proposed engineering loan visited Jakarta during November
6-20, 1977. Supplementary project data is given in Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C., April 4-9, 1978; the Government Delegation was
headed by Mr. Abdulrachman, Director of Planning, Department of Communications.
Project Description and Purpose
32.       Preliminary studies suggest that the use of coal for domestic
electricity generation is likely to be competitive with oil. The proposed
engineering loan would finance the cost of consulting services to establish
more precisely the economic viability of the Project and its optimal configura-
tion, and to complete other preparatory and detailed engineering work. The
consultants would: (a) determine the financial and economic viability of the
Project by defining the recoverable coal reserves and coal quality variations
at Bukit Asam and whether coal can be delivered to Suralaya at a cost competi-
tive with the cost of equivalent thermal units of oil; (b) determine the optimal
configuration and the capital and operating costs of the Project; (c) recom-
mend the institutional arrangements, including staffing and training,
required to execute the Project; and (d) complete the detailed engineering
and procurement documentation needed to implement the Project.
33.       While the precise definition of the Project will have to await the
completion of the proposed engineering studies, it is anticipated that it will
consist of: (a) an expansion of the existing mining operation at Bukit Asam
from 150,000 tons per annum to approximately 2.5 million tons per annum; and
(b) rehabilitation, expansion and/or building of new transport facilities to
carry coal from the mine over the South Sumatera Railway and then by a tug
and barge system across the Sunda Strait to Suralaya. Two possible rail-sea
routes are available and will be examined by the consultants. They are: (a)
the eastern route of approximately 160 km ending adjacent to Palembang on
the Musi River, and (b) the southern route of approximately 320 km ending
on Lampung Bay. The coal would supply the fuel requirements of Stage I of
the proposed Suralaya dual-fired (coal/oil) power plant to be constructed
by PLN at Suralaya on the western tip of Java. Stage I of the power plant
would consist of two 375 MW units which would become operational in early
1984 and 1985, respectively. The power plant will be built under a



- 12 -
separate but coordinated project, with possible Bank financing (a proposed
Eighth Power Project). Further development of the Suralaya power project to
a maximum capacity of 3,000 MW will be subject to the growth of Indonesia's
long-term power requirements.
34.       It is estimated that, without the Project, the power sector would
absorb 43 million barrels of oil in 1985, or 6% of the country's present oil
production. The successful implementation of the Project and the first two
units of the proposed Suralaya power project would enable Indonesia: (a) to
utilize approximately 2.5 million tons of steam coal, which is not ideally
suited for export, for power generation thus reducing annual domestic oil
consumption for power by approximately 9 million barrels per annum in 1985;
(b) to develop rail and maritime infrastructure which could provide the basis
.,r the future expansion of other mining concessions in the vicinity of
Tanjung Enim, and the further use of coal for power generation; and (c) to
lower the future economic cost of electricity in Indonesia.
Project Organization
35.       Prolect Management Group (PMG).   The PMG, charged with carrying out
the ongoing project, would coordinate the participation of the various
ministries involved and would supervise the activities of the consulting
engineers employed to evaluate and engineer the Project. It would also
coordinate the work of the operating units in the development of the Project
and reconcile their individual interests in the context of overall Government
policy. The exact role of the PMG in the implementation of the Project will
be determined on completion of the studies. The PMG will be staffed with
professionals seconded from PNB, PJKA, PLN and the Department of Communica-
tions. The PMG will provide guidance to the consultants. Major policy
decisions resulting from the consultants' proposals will be referred, with
recommendations for action, by the PMG to a Steering Committee for resolution.
The Steering Committee consists of senior representatives of the various
ministries that will be affected by the Project. Its Chairman is the Secre-
tary General of the Department of Communications. Both the PMG and the
Steering Committee have been established by Government decrees.
36.       Technical and Legal Assistance.   As all the specialist skills
required to coordinate and evaluate the activities of the consultants are not
available within the Indonesian organizations supplying staff to the PMG, the
PMG will require both technical and legal assistance to enable it to:
(a) review the proposals submitted by the consulting firms
prequalified to carry out the terms of reference of the Project
Services Contractor (PSC) (see para. 39), and negotiate the contract
with the selected firm;
(b) review the technical aspects of the PSC's reports; and
(c) review the organizational aspects, training and contracting
arrangements for the Project, as proposed by the PSC.



- 13 -
37.       Technical assistance will be provided by a consultant firm which
has been selected with the agreement of the Bank. A senior engineer repre-
senting the selected consultant firm should commence work in Jakarta by early
May 1978, and would then be joined by other specialists as required by the
PMG. Approximately 35 man-months of consultant time will be required to
June 30, 1979, which is three months after the PSC has submitted the study of
the optimal Project configuration. Further technical assistance will be
needed by the PMG during the 12 months to June 30, 1980 during which time the
detailed engineering and procurement documentation would be prepared by the
PSC. The exact scope and financing of this further technical assistance will
be agreed with the Bank prior to June 30, 1979 (Section 3.03 [b] of the Loan
Agreement), at which time the PMG would have received the preliminary recom-
mendations of the PSC on the appropriate organization for the Project.    It is
estimated that an additional 55 man-months of technical assistance will be
required by the PMG in the period July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1980. In addition
to general technical assistance, legal assistance will be required to help
the PMG in negotiating contracts with the PMG's technical advisory firm and
with the PSC.
38.       As the PMG will not have contracting powers, the Government, on
behalf of the PMG, will sign contracts with the organizations providing
consulting services. These contracts will be administered by the PMG.
39.       Prolect Services Contractor (PSC).   The PSC will be responsible for
the evaluation and design of the Project. The PSC will sequentially carry
out the following specific tasks:
(a)   review all the basic data and findings incorporated in all of
the existing consulting studies, to analyze the results of the coal
exploration program which should be completed by June 30, 1978, to
assess the probable cost at which approximately 2.5 million tons of
coal per annum can be delivered from the Bukit Asam site to the
proposed power station at Suralaya (with precise indication of the
thermal quality of the coal in oil equivalent), to provide PLN with
sufficient coal quality data to initiate the design of the power
generating boiler facilities, and to assure PLN that coal reserves
will be sufficient for the assumed 25-year life of the power
station. This information, determining the technical and economic
viability of the Project, is required by September 30, 1978.
(b) based upon the studies already undertaken and any additional
investigations which may be necessary, the PSC will: (i) recommend
the optimal production level of the mine in view of coal quality
characteristics and power plant requirements; (ii) develop and
design the optimal mining system; (iii) determine the optimal
transportation system to deliver coal from Bukit Asam to the power
plant at Suralaya, taking full account of projected non-coal and
passenger traffic; (iv) recommend in outline the proposed organiza-
tional structure of the Project. This information will be made
available by March 31, 1979.



- 14 -
(c) review the existing organizational, financial, and operating
procedures of the mine, railway, and shipping operations and
recommend any changes, training efforts, or new proposals considered
necessary to create a system which will operate efficiently both
during the construction and operation of the proposed facilities.
The recommendations will include proposals for the pricing of coal
and its railway movement, materials handling and sea transport.
Preliminary recommendations are required by March 31, 1979 and in
detail by September 30, 1979.
(d) finalize the detailed engineering, as well as capital and operating
cost estimates, and prepare contract documents consistent with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and a detailed implementation
schedule. While the completion of these tasks will be staggered
over time, the procurement documentation will be completed no later
than June 30, 1980, which is the scheduled date for the implementa-
tion of the Project.
40.       Five prequalified consulting firms, all having intermodal project
management design and construction experience, have been invited by the PMG,
with the agreement of the Bank, to submit proposals to act as the PSC. It is
expected that the selected consulting firm will start work in Indonesia no
later than July 1, 1978. It is estimated that approximately 1,400 man months
of consulting time would be required to complete the PSC's assigned tasks.
41.       The prequalification and selection of the PSC and of the firms
to provide technical and legal assistance to the PMG are being carried out
in accordance with the Bank's policies for the recruitment of consultants
and the terms of their contracts will be subject to Bank approval
(Sections 3.02 (a) and 3.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement).
42.       Cost Estimate.   The estimated costs of the proposed engineering
project are.
Local   Foreign    Total     Total
----- US$ million ----- …
Project Management Group (PMG)       1.86      0.25      2.11      16.0
Technical Assistance                 0.21      0.98      1.19       9.0
Legal Assistance                        -      0.05      0.05       0.4
Project Services Contractor (PSC)    0.66      6.90      7.56      57.2
Physical Contingencies               0.13      1.00      1.13       8.5
Price Contingencies                  0.11      1.07      1.18       8.9
Total project costs           2.97     10.25     13.22    100.0



- 15 -
43.       The above cost estimates are based on an examination of consultants
submissions to act as PSC and,to provide technical assistance to the PMS and
an estimate of the time-and skills-Erequired.-to complete the tasks-enumerated
in the.consultants' terms of reference. Technical-.assistance to the PMG.is
estimated to require approximately-90man-months of expatriate consultant
time at a cost per, man-month of about $8,\900 which includes salaries, overheads
and overseas allowances. Approximately 1j,4,0Q man-months of consulting time.
will be required by the PSC;at a cost- per man-month of, about. $7,300 for
expatriates and $1,400 for local consultants and staff. As the initial.
studies carried out by the PSC. may indicate the need-,for additional mine
drilling, a breakwater at Lamp.ung Bay-, aniexpanded marine facility at Suralaya,
or oLher engineering work not included in the basic scope of the PSC's terms
of reference, a provision for physical contingencies has been included in the
ist estimate. Such modifications to the scope of the engineering project
would-be agreed-with t-he Bank before implementation by the PSC (Section.3.09
(d) (iii) of the Loan Agreement). Any cost overruns associated with the
proposed engineering project would be financed by the Government (Section
3.01 of the Loan Agreement)-.
Finance and Disbursement
44.       The proposed loan of $10.0 million would finance 76% of the
total cost ,of the ongoingjproj,ect.- which. is equivalent to the.estimated
foreign exchange-,cost excluding t-he foreign .travel-costs of the Indonesians
employed by the PMG.l The pr-,oject's foreign exchange costs include up to.
$225,000 for technical, and legal assistance to,the PMG which will be incurred
prior to loan signature, and,it is recommended that this be financed by the
Bank retroactively.  Disbursement will b.e made.,against: - (a) 90% of the
total.costs associated w-ith the PSC;- and (b).100% of the foreign costs
associated with the provision of legal assistance to the PMG and technical
assistance to the PMG and PNB. The foreign cost of the PSC's contract is
estimated,at approximately 90t of the total contract-,cost.. If the PSC
effectivelyi used local consultants to a g,reater extent than presently anti-
cipated, the Bank would be financing,some local,costs.; the amount of local
cost financing would be small, however, and would be appropriate in order to
avoid,discour-aging the PSC from using local consul-tants to the maximum
feasible. extent.
45.       The loan would be made.to,the.-Rep.ublic of:Indonesia, and would be
repayable in 10 years including,3 years of grace through,semi-annual install-
ments.with interest,at 7..5% per annum.  The- Government would finance
the remaining costs esti.matied to be apprioximately $.3..0 million.  T-he Bank
loan.would be refinanced under any later loan or credit that the Bank Group
might make for the Project-
Benefits and Risks
46.       If the Project proves feasible, the main benefits,which will result
from its completion will be a lowering of the economic cost of producing
electricity in Indonesia and the substitution of approximately 2.5 million
tons of coal not ideally suited for export for approximately 9 million
barrels of oil per annum that would have been required to produce 750 KW of
electricity. Suralaya would be the first coal based electricity facility
operated by PLN.



- 16 -
47.       Previous studies have left unresolved a number of questions as to
the exact definition of the recoverable coal reserves at Bukit Asam and a
drilling program is underway to answer these questions. It is expected that
the PSC will develop the necessary information by September 30, 1978, in time
for the appraisal of the Suralaya power project. If it is determined at that
time that the coal reserves at Bukit Asam are not suitable, or, if coal
cannot be delivered to Suralaya at an economically competitive cost, the
consultant services would be terminated and approximately $8.5 million of the
loan would be cancelled. In this event, another scheme for power generation
would be substituted for the proposed Suralaya power project. If, by
October 31, 1978, uncertainties still remain regarding the viability of the
Project, consideration would be given to allow the PSC to undertake
further investigations in order to obtain a definitive conclusion. Such
'drther work would need to be agreed with the Bank (Section 3.02(d)(ii) of
the Loan Agreement) after an examination of the repercussions that such a
delay would have on the implementation of the Suralaya power project. In the
event that further study proved that the Project was not viable, all con-
tracts would be terminated and the balance of the loan cancelled.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
49.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the follow-
ing features are of particular interest:
(a) the employment by the Borrower of the PSC and the consultant
providing technical assistance to the PMG are conditions of effec-
tiveness (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement);
(b) conditions of disbursements would be: (i) for disbursements for
work of the PSC and related technical and legal assistance after
October 31, 1978, that the Borrower and the Bank agree that the
Project is technically and economically viable; and (ii) for
disbursements for such work after June 30, 1979, that the Borrower
and the Bank agree that the Project configuration proposed to be
implemented by the PMG, on the basis of the recommendations made
by the PSC, is optimal. If no such agreement were to be reached,
the funds allocated for further studies would be cancelled (para-
graphs 4(b), 4(c), 7 and 8 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 24, 1978
Washington, D.C.






AINEX I
TABLE 3APae1o                                                       4pgs
INOONESrA           -    SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                          Page 1 of 4 pagee
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -   -       INDONESIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1904.3                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      263.8                       1960      1970    ESTIMATE          BANGLADESH     INDIA          PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     90.0 *    130.0*    240.0 */a            a0.O       100.0*      230.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           94.7      117.6     135.2 /a             70.8      547.6        36.9
POPULATION OENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       50.0       62.0      71.0 ja           492.0       167.0       123.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       337.0     419.0      476.0   a          730.0       306.0       375.0
VITAL STATTSTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.0       45.9      42.9                50.3       41.0        44.2
CRUDE DEATH kATE (/THOU.AV)          25.4       20.6      16.9                22.9        19.0       13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)       125.0         ..        ..                  ..         ..        8t.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       47.5         ..      48.1               43.2        47.2        55.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8 6      3.2       3.1                 3.1        2.9         3.3
POPUL:TION GROWTH RATE ()2
TOTAL                                 2.1        2.0       2.4                 2.8        2.2         3.0
URBAN                                  *-        2.7 Li    4.1                 6.2        3.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           14.9      17.1 /b    19.2                6.4        19.8       27.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.1 L     44.0      43.9 L                ..       41.6        45.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       15.2 4     52.5      53.6 a                *-       55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.6 4a     2.5       2.5 a                          3.1         2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.0        6.9        0.9                 ..        0.8         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4        ..        1.3L /              ..         i.'  Li    1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..     259.3 5  6796.2 /C               *-    14585.0       320.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        34600.0         ..   44200.0 /b         22300.0    218000.0     12400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (5)         75.0         ..      69.0 A             71.0        69.0        s5.0La
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            1.4        ..               d            ..         ..         7.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_______  --     --_ _ ___
S OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..      33.73/e             16.7 /a    25.0 lb
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..      52.0/              42.3 a      S3.1 
LOWEST  20% Of HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..       6.8 7              7.9         4.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..      17.3                19.6 "     13.1          *-
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OMNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           40.0 /b      ..         ..               24.0.b        .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           2.0 /       ..        ..               10..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            413B0.O/26830.0     16930.0              7600.0 /C  4890.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON             ..   7770.0   O        / f IL     72030.0 7    5220.0 /CI
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1370-0/b 1670 0      1430.0       8       120.0 o   1610.0       850.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (S OF REQUIREMENTS)         09.0       91.0      98.0                a6.0 /     93.0        93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              43.0       43.0      43.8                  ..       53.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         IS.O/d-    14.0      16.6                           16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        6.6
EDUCATION
AOJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       67.0      68.0       79.0 lR             90.0       65.0       113.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      6.0       12.0       19.0               15.071        ..       49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12-0      12.0                10.0       12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     20.0       29.0      32.0                 1.0        6.0 8       6.0 .b
ADULT LITERACY RATE (5)                47.0 /a    59.0       62.0 /h              *-        23.0*
HOUSING
PERSONS PL. ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..        1.6 /b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        76.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
To ELECTRICITY (5)                     ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..         7.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           7.0         .      39.0                 B.0        21.0       72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0       2.0       3.0                 0.4         1.0        B.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            15.0      20.0      26.0                20.0       114.0      235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2       0.4       0.4                 0.1         0.3         2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Paeg 2 of 4 pages
SAL
Unless otherwise noted, data fw    1960 refer to any rest between 1959 end 1961, fOr 19-70 between 1966 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate betwee
1973 and 1975.
GCi?P per capita date an baed on the World Bank Atlas .ethOdolOg         (1974,76 heasis).
- The PhilLppinan has keen selected as so objective counotry for its geograpbicei si"milrity sod because of its apparent advance acage of aconoic
dve-lop-sot.
DMO       A     !96    L.   Excludes Weat trian;     lb  1962;     le. 1931-56;     /g  1961-63;    LI   10 years and over, ability to read end write,
in either Latin or notiLetifl characters.
1970    J.   1961-71;     Lb  1971;    I. 1968-70;      LA  lncluding nuree-nidvives.
MOST! IICUa EsfTAf:        La  1976;     ab  19fl;     La  1968-73;    Ld  Mostly imneloped workes seaking their first job;          Le  Inca"e
recipiente;     Lf  Inclueing sidwive;      LI lPst nerollssnt;      Lk  tO year   and over, ability to reed and
write inL either Latin or non-Latin characters.
BAICLAIEMS     1970    a,196-67;         /b  196748;     a, Registered, not all precticiog In the country;        4.d  Govermneent hospital establiahento
________  -         ~only;     /s  Average 1969-71;     /f  Apprzmnte enrollnsnt as percentage of population Ltc 6-10 sod 11-15 ago groups
reapsotively.
hDA    1970     /sRatio of population under 15 end 63 end ousr to labor force age LS and over;          a, 1967-68;      a,   Including nidwives;
Li  1967.
-HItLIPPtliES  1970    La   AS PerCentage Of aWinpl11uet      Lb  Hot  includLin private vocational schools.
RIB, January 26, 1979
owulils oP SXciL UDICA1K
I  rs(thou ~ b2)                                                                  oulto     ost  ureie  ean       euel      iIe     ynMar or practicing
'd-Total Surface are   cOoprialog teed are  and island wetere.                       ees4faegeuas                a, 'trained' or "certified' oursee, and
orte.  M- Motrcatetimate of       triculturel ens used teeponraily Or peia-              euniliary peronnel wick trainig or aepsriancs.
neotly for crops, psetura, aerket & kitchen grdena or to lie fatly.                  hn11IIIsPar.±    l8iMl.       Pod-  pulation divided by n.ber of hospital beds
aneilablinpublin; Leand private gemerel sod aPocilisend hoepital and
CR?  et  sola  (03)  GCNP Per capita estimates at curren t nerket prices,          rehabilitation  cnters; eCludsa nursing hoses and sstsblinhesnte to.
cacltdby am   conversIon, osthod as world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basin);             cutedinl and Preventive cere.
1960;, 1970 end 1975 data.                                                           PerT caita ewol, of calories   % of reomirsemntsl - COopoted fie_ energy
equivalent of net food supplies avaiabls incmustry per caia      e day;
-4 yi-I  cati.tic!  ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~    ~     vilbl    sppis     nrlsdostecl productIon      Loporca lees. Po...ta  and
Ponualn     mdyareit              sof Juyfirst:    if not available, average             Changes in sock;    c-sppIlsS aexlude anima food, seeds, quanrtit  usaead
of tue end-ear estimaes;116.0. 19700and 1975 data.                                    in food processing and loose  in distributIon; requireast, wer estivnetd
by TAO based on Physiological naeed for nornal activity end health cuMied-
!oowltien density- oar     a-o uatsb - Mid-year pepliation per aware bilosseter          erieg soirivoatal tnpsPebote. body weights, age and see distrIbution     of
(100 h..ct_e) oftotaL area,.                                                           population, and Allowing 1in for waste at boesehold level.
PruLott1ou densit   - net snun    ho of eerie, Land - Ctopnotd es above for             Ner csit   ecl     feoel       r     e    l - Protin naneso   of per ceplce
agrlcoturel l ndoLy.                                                               Mat supyo       fodprdy     ntapl       t food is defined So show; equir--
nenta for el1 coontries established by USDA Econosic leaserch Servion
Vinta  eteistice                                                                         Provide for a  iniesse ailowance of 60 growa of total protein per day, and
Crda birth    rat  et thousnd    avrses - Annual lIve birtha per thouaand of              20 gras of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gross should be anIma
old-_a   popltIon; te-e       r, _ri Leti  averages endin  In 1960 and 1970,           prtotin; th"es atendards an lomt then th-os of 75 greas of total protein
and fiv-y-r a-.t-S. ening In 1973 for net reMat estiasa.                                ean 23 gras, of animal Protein es an avorgs for the _orld, proposed by fAC
Crude death rate   net thousand. yavas, - Annual deaths pot thousand of nid-pear          In the Third World Pond Survey.
population; tn.-year erittestis enr-aes ending In 1960 end 1970 and fiv-             Par   caia   orti    so    finel aniMal and roles - Protein wepply Of fond
year averag  endi.g in 1975 for nest tenatesia,                                        derive  finr elol andlm  pulses in grans per day.
Infet  nrcaiyrats  f/thou) -Annual daotho of infaent under as year of aSs.           et     a   fto)   se    -   Anual deaths per th-ouad L. age group lJ"
po t t   Soue   lIebirths.                                                             yastocildrn in              S.-  g  grow; ..Suggstd aanindictoCr of
Lif.   xscan      ec birttth  (viey  vra geA-S  Wober of pears of life recaicing at      seloutrition.
birth; usually five-year enrages ending in 1960. 1970 and 1P75 fot davelop-
log countries.                                                                       edusatbo
Ir-on  reoroduetion  rats - Average ousbor of live daughters a wan will beer            Adjusted  enrollen   Iei      tmey   sho - tErollmet of all eges as per-
in her Mcoral rerdc     Ieproafse          xaioe       rsn     g-pecfcc-antga of poiayatol-g                         poultion; includes Children aged b-tl years
fertility rtate; uausIly fivs-yur averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975               hut edjetsd for different lengtha of primary education, for ctoutries sith
for dov.PAloi  countries.                                                               universal education, enrollment ney sneed 1001 Since a_   pupls era hol_
ponultion styd  rte CZ) - totall - Cospound annual grwtb retus of e-pee7-r           or above the official school age.
pouoinfr1950460. 1960-70 sod 1970435.                                         Adutd     erlmn       ei      so   r   scoo    Couputad es  beys: se.osdery
Povoati    nwcruc   rate 1)    uba -.COnputed 1LIb  grnrth rats of total                   dctm     reies1intforpasof approved priory Inatruotion;
pouation; diffrn     efntosf  I    urbmanenes ny affect anparability of              provides general, vocational or teeher treinlog Inatructiell, for puils
date aft   cmmntrien.                                                                   of 12 te 17 yeara of age; ceorsapondenas cournes an generally eo-lodd.
Urba  mnpletin  C of total) - satio of urbani to ntotl population; differen         er     fshala        rvdd    (ist   adeaeoevi)          sai years of
defisitl     . o ur6n   nam" mey effect coparebility of data auag coantrias.             bseln;      a   eee,     lvl,vctos          srsinm        e perCially ac
sompletely exucluded.
Ass  strtturo  o.ert -a oebdren (0-14 pears), weting-age (15-68 years)             Vocatio-alenolmet It Of- scondar       - Yanetbosel leatiuttoes InLude"
and re2tired f(Alpeasadoe)a           ecnae       fmdya5euetn                            tno.  cs..  ied,astr.s or ohr progres which oera-te indepadenly or an
Ass   deend...y  ratI - Rati  of populaion under 15 snd 65 and over to cheat              depeoteents of secondary Institutions.
of ge  15 through 66.                                                               Adult literacy  rata  (11 - Literat  adnlts (able to read sd wits) aso per-
Eoononic  deosodency  ratio - tatio of popuietos todst 15 sod 65 and ovr to                . cantos of total adult population. aged 15 yers and over.
che labor tarts in age group of 15-64 year.
rentlo    lnnn       ca.outors  iceSulative.thou) - IseLative  -boer of acc..pporr      Jjfljjs
of bit-otoldvcsuder auspice              ofntoa      taiypanning progre               Perona    strm     uan-Aaeensr of prersn             per rom  in occpied
sinc  Inception.                                                                       conve    tioa  dwllgn in urban area; dwellings seclude non-pemnast
Faniln eI.La.is-ues       f of  nettle  wane  - Peroantagas of earnied woen of            structures and unoccupied parts.
child-hearing age(15-44 years) hj     e  birth-control devices to eli earned          Otct  e    wlio       ihu    sod   wtr   I)-Ocpedcnetoa             oise
eas, in eas age group.                                           ~~~~~~~~~in when sd rural ays withou  InsIde or otsid  pipedtcaca dtaillta,
as Percentge of all occupied dwellIngs.
onoloneant                                                                              Access  t Oelectricity (1 Of ait dwsllinesl - Conventional dwellings  ith
Ioa   labor  foc    ousand) - Econneica11y active persona, Lncluding atnd               eleCtricity Ln living quarters es percrrt of tor1 dwellings to urban and
fore    n    oolydht Secluding housewives, students, ertc.; definitions                 rrlaes
In various counItries an not cotnpareble.                                             tural dontline  cntocted  to elaciricity Mt - Cteputd as above for rural
Lbrforce in aeiutr       M   - Agricultural labor force (in feosiog, forestry,         dwelling  only.
bunting and fishing) en peroontage of totel labor force.
V-S.newavd   Ct of lsbar force) - Unepoy*d are usualy defined as persona who            C~Oapentoa
are  ble and wilingta    ak  a job , out of a job on a given day, mescmed out        Radio   reCeiver  (ear thou  one) - All types at receiloer f.r radio broedoasco
of aob, sod wseiegtwortk forolm a- speciftied silems perod not seconding one            tognrlpblIc per thound Of population; onClInd unlinensed raenivrer
wea, may nor be cusparebla between countriss due to different definitluns             in cosentries and in peers uhan registration Of radIo sets -a in sffst;
of onnployad and source of data, e.g., neployeent off inn Statistics, ~smPIs            date for recent pear say not be oearaabl    siocs wes cOuntriss abolished
..tV-ys, co-pulsry unamploywent inauranc.                                               lIcensing.
ess.ne     Arsca  (ear tbsu  see) - PFass...  crcopIs   noise care sealing
in-sAJ.rbtig-Par'ontge of privete incas (both in cus              end bind)               les  thn   iht penono; includes aboleos, heense. and       ilitarv
recevedby rchet  t. richest 207. poorest 20,ad poorest AOl of house-               vehlclsa.
holds.                                                     glectrinity   (kwh/vt~~~~~~~~~~~k  -Dtca - Asns1 conasuptton of industr.Ial.  -mrctsl
pulcadpiat electric Ity in klI-Ltui  hours per capIta, generally
DIls tiltouto  Of land -nnerohi  - Presoteges of lad  nnd  by esetthist 101              beed on production dats, eithouc lt     ec  for boossa In gride but allo-
and poorest 101 of lend onners.                                                         tug for teotpate end soporta of electricity.
iseworit  (a/vt set cas - Per ospit. steua1 tn.-sption, in kitagras,
Ileelfm  en"d  Nutrritio                                                                  esiaedfn         asat   productIon plus eat Imports of newprint
pp Lato  oa ohvsician - Population, divided by noer of practicing
physician  qslifiad Imes a nedical sahool at oiniveaty lawe.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 nages
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC D(DICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197^                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Nil        %                       1960 -65          1965 -70          1971-75
GNP at Market Prices          28,146      100.0                        1.9               4.9                7.1
Gross Domestic Investment      6,891       24.5                        3.3              11.5               17.1
Gross National Saving          5,634       20.0                        5.8               5.1
Current Account Balance       -1,257        4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          4,738       16.8                        1.5               7.8                6.5
Imports of Goods, NIS          5,533       19.7                        0.2              10.9               27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
1/                     2oce
Value Added 7                Labor For2/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Nil       %Mil _               _U
Agriculture                    4,221      44.8               30.5      69.0                 138         65.0
Industry                       1,915      20.3                3.0       6.8                 638        300.0
Services                       3,279      34.9                8.3      18.8                 395        185.0
Unallocated                      -         -                  2.4       5.4
Total/Average
9,415     100.0                                              213        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                          % of GDP
1976/77*       1975/76                 1975          1974
Current Receipts                   2,904          2,201                  18.1          17.0
Current Expenditure                1,613          1.247                  10.2          10.2
Current Surplus                    1,291            954                   7.8           7.7
Capital Expenditures               2,070          1,425                  11.7           9.8
External Assistance                  784            492                   4.0            2.4
* Provisional estimates.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1971         1972        1973        1974        1975        1976
(Billion Rp outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                     469          695         987       1,452        1,995       2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector              387          333         357         412       1,637       1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector             317          500         908       1,163       1,353        1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as t of GDP          12.8         15.2        14.6         14.8        16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 - 100)    642          807       1,028        1,370       1,640       1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         2.6         25.7        27.4         33.3        19.7        14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                ..         tl4.0         7.2         15.4       297.3         7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector               *-          57.7        81.6         28.1        16.3        24.9
NOTEs All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 - US$1.
2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
November 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PADEENTS AND CAPITAL FLWW.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973.75)
1974     197     1976                                               US $ MAl    %
(Millions USS)    Provisional
Exports:                      4351      4738     6033               Oil (net)                       1897      50.4
Oil (net)                   2169      2921     3650               Rubber                           416      11.0
Non oil                     2182      1817     2383               Timber                            602     16.0
Imports                      -4220    -B533    -6297                Palm oil                         132       3.5
Resource gap                 131    - 795    - 264                Tin                              138       3.7
Factor service:              - 210     - 462    - 781               Coffee                             99      2.6
Interest                   -  64    - 178    - 354
Investment income          - 146    - 284    - 427               All other commodities             483      12.8
Balance on Current Account   -  79    -13257   - 1045                   Total                       3767     100.0
Di r-c Foreign Investment      462      497      432             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
b.ct MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               664     2395     2365                                                       Us s kil
Amortization              -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                    584     2073     1930               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          10,140
Capital Grants                  62      ..       ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          - 126    -2250    - 205               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            - 214    -.46     -j3fl.
Increase in Reserves (+)       689    - 983      737             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)     1473      590     1494                                                         %
Net Reserves   (end year)     1472      489     1226               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        4      120      152
of which:  Petroleum         1      116      146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2169     2921      3650       IBRD/IDA LENDING; (December 31, 1977) Million USS
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                    IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed            402.2        4,55.7
____uahJuLyl971    since  August 1971             Undisbursed                      1,012.5        106.1
Rp 1000    = US$2.67           Rp  1o00  = US$2.41            Outstandin  ingl. Undisbursed   1,414.7         561.8
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
December 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                             Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                   Undisbursed
Number      Year                     Purpose                       Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
Fourteen Credits fully disbursed                                             155.9      0.0
195          1970         Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                     18.5      0.1
220          1971         Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5      0.3
246          1971         Seeds                                                7.5      0.9
259         1971          Tea                                                 15.0      2.6
260          1971         Second Highway                                      34.0      0.6
288          1972         Second Education                                     6.3      0.3
289          1972         Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.5      0.7
300          1972         Population                                          13.2      5.5
318          1972         Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                   8.5       2.1
319          1972         Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.0      3.3
334          1973         Second Electricity Distribution                     40.0      1.7
355          1973         Beef Cattle Development                              3.6      0.9
358          1973         North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.0      0.8
387          1973         Third Education                                     13.5      5.4
388          1973         Third Highway                                       14.0      1.3
399          1973         West java Thermal Power                             46.0      6.3
400          1973         Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.8      6.7
405          1973         Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0      4.7
428          1974         Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.5     10.6
436          1974         Private Development Finance Co.   of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                 10.0      2.8
451          1974         Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.0      3.1
479          1974         Bali Tourism                                        16.0     12.6
480          1974         Fisheries Credit                                     6.5      2.4
514          1975         Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0     26.5
1005        1974          Railway                                  48.0                 8.6
1040        1975          Jakarta Urban Development                25.0                 4.9
1049        1975          Five Cities Water Supply                 14.5                11.8
1054        1975          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                           50.0                 4.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                             Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                   Undisbursed
Number      Year                     Purpose                       Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
1089        1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion             115.0                 3-3
1100        1975          Sixth Irrigation                         65.0                56.2
1127        1975          Fourth Power                             41.0                15.7
1139        1976          Fertilizer Distribution                  68.0                 5.0
1179        1976          Agricultural Research & Extension        21.5                20.8
1197        1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping       13.0                12.3
1236        1976          Fourth Highway                          130.0               117.6
1237        1976          Fourth Education                         37.0                35.4
1250        1976          Second Shipping                          54.0                52.7
1254        1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion               70.0                22.9
1259        1976          Fifth Power                              90.0                85.6
1267        1976          National Food Crops Extension            22.0                20.3
1268        1976          Seventh Irrigation                       33.0                27.3
1318        1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                            30.0                22.8
1336        1977          Second Urban Development                 52.5                36.4
1337        1977          Tanjung Priok Port                       32.0                27.2
1363         1977         Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                             15.0                14.2
1365         1977         Sixth Power                             116.0                98.4
1373         1977         Nutrition Development                    13.0                13.0
1433         1977         Teacher Training-Fifth Education         19.0                18.5
1434        1977          Eighth Irrigation                        63.0                62.8
1435        1977          Ninth Irrigation                         35.0                33.7
1437         1977         Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                          40.0                40.0
1472         1977         Second Population                        24.5                24.5
1486         1978         Non-Formal Education                     15.0                15.0
1499         1978         Nucleus Estates and Smallholders         65.0                65.0
1513         1978         Seventh Power                           109.0               109.0
Total                                               1,526.0    560.8    1,118.6
of which has been repaid                              2.3      0.0
Total now outstanding                               1,523.7    560.8
Amount sold                                  26.9
of which has been repaid                   0.0       26.9      0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                    1,496.8    560.8
Total undisbursed/b                                 1,090.4    102.2    1,192.6
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Excludes a small enterprise development credit (785-IND), signed on April 7, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                       Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                10.6      2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                    Textiles               2.5      0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles               2.0      0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable                 2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles               4.5       1.5         6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism               11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                5.4       0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles               2.0      0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics            0.9        -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.         -        0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles               2.4       0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                5.0       1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                 -        1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles               0.3       -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles               1.4      0.1          1.5
Total                                          50.8      10.5        61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            25.9       1.7        27.6
Total held by IFC                              24.9      8.8         33.7
Undisbursed (including participants' portion) 0.8          -          0.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                Page
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434                4
and 1435)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,              6
405, 480, Ln. 1318, and 1499)
Agriculture Support Services (Cr. 246, Ln. 1179, and 1267)              8
Education (Cr. 288, 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           9
Energy (Cr. 334, 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                           11
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                              12
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                           13
Development Finance Companies                                          13
Bapindo (Ln. 1054 and 1437)                                    13
PDFCI (Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)                                   13
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                      14
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                   14
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                14
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                     15
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                   15
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                16
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                       16
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                    17
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                          17
17
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)
18
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works ex~ecution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is about 98%
disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Overall project completion is expected by about September 1978,
about 3 years years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay -
difficulties in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations,
heavy rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation
rates and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The project is now essentially completed with
97% of the Credit disbursed. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about twice
the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19 pages
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. About 70% of the works are finished
and completion of the project is expected by March 1979. The Credit is
about 92% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project have been
concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved. The remaining contracts are expected to
be awarded in the next 6 months. Based on bid prices for the first contract
and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the total
project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100    Sixth Irrigation:   US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems is
beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance has been provided
under Loan 1434-IND to expedite this work through the use of local consultants.
Critical review of the program for benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1268    Seventh Irrigation Project:   US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. The project is slightly behind schedule in the North Sadang and
tertiary development areas. The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434    Eighth Irrigation Project:   US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1435    Ninth Irrigation Project:   US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is on schedule and progressing satisfactorily.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons or 25%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting in early 1978. Technical problems exist
in processing and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill
will be accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will
also be provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satis-
factory, while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the
course of the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project.(NES I -
Loan 1499-IND) PNP X is participating in both the NES I project and the
Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The January 1977 review mission's
recommendations, which included major changes in project scope and objectives,
were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. These amendments
reflected a change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef
cattle for export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale
as draft and breeding animals. The project was reveiwed in November 1977 and
the mission found the state of ranch development and management satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19 pages
Credit No. 358    North Sumatra Smallholder Development:   US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
olantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:   US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated and are about a third of
appraisal estimates. This is due to fewer than anticipated credit applica-
tions mainly because smallholder tea price has been higher than anticipated
at appraisal, which reduced the need for subloans. Also private estates have
been slow in joining the project because of their difficult financial posi-
tion, which made them ineligible for subloans and because of difficulties
in establishing land ownership titles.    The Project Management Unit (PMU) is
now considering two alternatives: completion of planting by 1980/81 extending
the project period by two years to achieve 80% of appraisal estimates; or,
achievement of 53% of appraisal estimates by 1978/79. The project spin-off
and training have been excellent; about 2,300 ha of tea were replanted or
rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program but still under the
influence of the PMU. Over 3,000 farmers have been trained in training
centers and village level courses. A marketing study indicates that tea
consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically.
Credit No. 405    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:   US$50 Million Credit of
Jund 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is on schedule and about 75% completed. The Joint
Sugar Projects Unit is efficiently supervising the procurement and installa-
tion of machinery and equipment. The two PTPs which are involved in the
rehabilitation process are both in a weak financial position and this
problem requires attention. Consultant services are gradually being phased
out as planned except for the sugar research station which still requires a
major input.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project has generally been progres-
sing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318    Transmigration and Rural Development Project:    US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
In 1976 the first 416 families moved as scheduled from Java to
Baturaja, Village 1. During 1977 some 200 ha of food crops and 318 ha of
rubber were planted, and an additional 149 families were settled in Village
2. Houses were completed for another 100 families who will be settled early
in 1978; 50 more houses are under construction and the remaining houses
should be started soon. Physical layout plans for Villages 3 and 4 have been
completed and will be reviewed with the Bank in January. Project progress is
generally satisfactory. Continued improvement is expected in project adminis-
tration following the appointment of consultants to the Project Management
Unit in mid-1977.
Loan No. 1499    Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:    US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date:    January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective on January 12, 1978.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 246   Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971; Effective
Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
At Sukamandi 1,600 ha have been developed and it is planned to
develop an additional area of 400 ha in 1978. Significant results as of
1976/77 season, expressed as percentages of appraisal estimates are:
(a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of rice seed -
2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed - 4,900 tons (42%).
Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one seed
multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at appraisal, has
been developed. Total area developed so far is 250 ha of a total estimate of
500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production continues to be high
and it is not commercially viable even with increases in production. The
Corporation will need continued financial support from the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project having suffered initial delays is about one year behind
the appraisal report schedule, but is now progressing satisfactorily.
Architects for civil works construction have now completed schematic drawings,
a contract for provision of technical assistance for research is under active
implementation and an agreement with FAO for technical assistance in extension
of agricultural information was signed in October 1977.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The construction and procurement programs, after a somewhat slow
start, are now on schedule. Staff appointments are on schedule with the
exception of some supervisory staff and subject matter specialists outside
Java. The new extension methodology has been adopted in all project provinces
and is being gradually applied. The coordination of extension services between
the five directorates general in the Ministry of Agriculture has not been
finalised; this matter is being closely followed. Improvements in project
management, and accounting are also being sought.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 31 million books for 1977/78, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19 pages
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 370,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition
specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO. The
Government is presently seeking additional technical assistance in publishing
and paper procurement. Disbursement has improved and is now 91% of the
appraisal estimate as against 69% a year ago. The Government is planning a
major review of the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Govern-
ment textbook projects and to overall future needs for production of
instructional materials.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially a ten-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance and slow site selection. However, since January 1977,
no further delays have occurred and good progress is now being made in
implementation. Cumbersome implementation procedures in the Department of
Manpower are still a potential source of delay for that Department's sub-
proiect and should be kept under review. Architectural designs for all three
subprojects have been prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most
sites have been acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been prequal-
ified. Tenders for construction of 14 to 24 project institutions will be
called in the next six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of
preparation. Eleven additional technical assistance specialists assumed
their posts over the last six months and the technical assistance program is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is satisfactory. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve
teacher training has started. The technical assistance contract has been
signed. The design of physical facilities has fallen behind schedule because
of delays in appointing consultant architects.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory with the exception
of delays in selecting a technical assistance contractor.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 334    Second Electricity Distribution:   US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered setbacks in implementation
due to delays in the preparation of designs for the system expansion because
of constantly changing city development plans during the early period of
implementation, procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures.
As a result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to June 30, 1978
to allow additional time for the delivery of some recently ordered goods.
Completion of voltage changeover and connection of consumers will require
another 12 months after Closing Date.
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang (Part
A of the Project) were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in
an increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government will
provide the additional funds required. The additional financing requirements
led to a delay in the award of the general construction contract and, as a
result, the project is about two years behind schedule. PLN has satisfactorily
met the targets in its financial recovery plan (Part B) provided for
under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Java System Study (Part C) has
been completed. The Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study (Part D) had to
be extended by another working season to complete additional field work. It
is likely that the Closing Date of the Credit will need to be postponed by
about 12 months.
Loan No. 1127    Fourth Power:   US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Part A of the project provides for the expansion of the Muara
Karang thermal power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW
generating unit. The general construction contracts covering this unit as
well as the first two financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded although
after some delay because of the problems of cost-overruns for the first two
units. The Financial Recovery Plan (Part B) and feasibility study for a new
thermal plant in West Java (Part C 1) have been completed. The Training
Program (Part D) is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the project
is now satisfactory but final completion will be about 18 months behind the
original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way but disbursement is
substantially behind schedule. Orders have been placed for the first of
three lots of equipment for about $11.0 million; these are now being
received enabling field work to be commenced. Bids are being issued for the
second lot worth about $40.0 million and arrangements for construction
altered to speed up implementation. Nevertheless a delay of about a year is
expected in completion of the Project, due to the slow start. Part B of the
Project (the financial recovery plan) has been completed.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Project: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Orders have been placed for main generating plant and equipment.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan is expected to become effective in May 1978.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of
PUSRI III is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date:   August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977, i.e.,
about three months ahead of schedule. The total project cost is expected to
be below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha had been acquired as of May 1977 and
acquisition of another 31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of
developed land have been sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capa-
city will be around 17,000 and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average
in both factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are
profitable. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be
20.6%, is significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is
due to the fact that developed land values are rising faster than the cost
of raw land and development.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):    US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the fourth quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1437    BAPINDO III Project:   US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorly.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1363    Second PDFCI Project:   US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:   April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is
an integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors
recruited annually and now covers about 18% of all married women in the
reproductive age group. Implementation of the civil works component is
now on schedule.
Loan No. 1472    Second Population Project:   US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1373    Nutrition Development Project:   US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The initial progress under this project is satisfactory.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197    National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:    US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is essentially on schedule. Construction of
BAKOSURTANAL headquarters and facilities, including cartographic, printing,



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19 pages
photographic interpretation, and data processing wings, is about 50% com-
plete. Contracts covering about 40% of the equipment to be procured under
the project have been awarded. The first new topographic map sheets of
Sumatra have been completed, and an orderly schedule for several hundred
additional sheets are in various stages of compilation and production.
Training programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project
are progressing well. Final loan documents for a parallel CIDA financed
project are in Jakarta awaiting Government's signature.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$12.5 million from the loan were realized in the original project. Procurement
of an additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of
fertilizer output beyond that anticipated at appraisal were approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is under way, the
fourth ship has been delivered, and other components are likely to be com-
pleted successfully.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small (despite sharp price increases) due to efforts to reduce
construction quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services.
Construction work is completed; but work is still proceeding on detailed
engineering of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to
reconsider road design standards in relation to those recently developed for
the highway betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations
regarding standards for urban portions of the road.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have been
delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually adverse
climatic conditions. Construction costs will likely exceed original estimates
by more than 100%, mainly caused by increased quantities combined with



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19 pages
sharply escalated prices. The project also included feasibility and detailed
design studies of highway betterment works. Most of the studies are now
completed and formed the basis of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND).
However, work on a few studies will continue for another 3-4 months and will
then form the basis for lending by ADB or bilateral agencies. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by the
Government.
Loan No. 1236    Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Nearly all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays ranging
from nine months to about one year. Construction contracts for almost 900 km
of roads have been awarded, and tender evaluation has been completed for the
remaining about 380 km. Some problems in the execution of the road works
have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 but it is still too early to
assess the future impact of these difficulties on the overall construction
progress and project completion.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and the technical assistance to be
developed. Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy appli-
cants,just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will
have been rehabilitated.
Loan No. 1250    Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has
slowed project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of
the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory,, and further deterioration
could cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is considering steps to deal with this problem and with the acquisition of
high-cost new ships. Solutions likely to be proposed may require amendment
to the project description. It is expected that such a proposal will be
discussed with the Bank in March 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port Project:   US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date:   March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, about 2.8 million tons were handled in the
first half of 1977. The first construction contract for Basin III civil works
and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let; container
handling and other equipment is being procured. There continue to be problems
in completing government financed works in Basin III but these works are
exoected to be completed by December 1978.
Loan No. 1005    Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight and passenger
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However slight
improvements were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new
locomotives and rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of
consultants. The financial performance of the railway deteriorated in 1976
and 1977 due mainly to the declining traffic and to an increase in cost
including a large wage raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being
reviewed with the railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure for the Nusa Dua tourism
estate, including the hotel training school is under way and is scheduled for
completion in December 1978. The completion of project components outside
the estate (roads) is scheduled for October 1979, about one year later than
planned at project appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has increased rapidly
due to a considerable number of charter flights coming to Bali. Promotional
efforts to encourage investors have been intensified. Agreement has been
reached for the construction of the first 300-room hotel in Nusa Dua.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974: Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs for the sites and services
component are expected to be about 7% above the appraisal estimate. Problems
which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the procedures
to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 18-24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about 14%



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the engineering project:      2 years
(b)  Agencies which have prepared the engineering        Dept. of
project:                                          Communications,
Dept. of Mines
and Energy,
PNB, PJKA
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of the first Bank mission                September 1975
to consider the engineering project:              and March 1976
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:             November 6, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                 April 7, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      July 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The PSC will be required to verify by September 30, 1978 the nature
of the coal reserves at Bukit Asam and the most probable cost of coal deliv-
ered to Suralaya so that the appraisal of the Suralaya power project can
proceed. If the PSC cannot favorably confirm these aspects of the Project
then PLN would need to substitute another scheme of power generation based on
oil. The Bank intends to mount a supervisory mission to Indonesia in June
1978 to review the results of the current mine drilling program, to ensure
that arrangements relating to the appointment of the PSC are proceeding
satisfactorily, and that the PSC will be in a position to start work in
Indonesia no later than July 1, 1978.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. The PMG will consult and agree with the Bank on the technical and
economic feasibility of the Project, after the PSC has reviewed the
existing studies and mine drilling results (para 47).



ANNEX III
Page 2
2. The PMG will consult with the Bank on the study of the optimal
configuration of the project, prepared by the PSC, and agree with
the Bank on the scope of the Project before proceeding with the
detailed design and engineering of the Project (para 39[b]).
3. The PMG will consult and agree with the Bank on the amount
of technical assistance required by the Project Management
Group in the 12 months prior to the commencement of the Project
(para 37).






IBRD 13232R
100°                     102°                               HAILANDSouth Chuno Sea   o     'PHILIPPINES
Ocean
/           K     % .aS $~~~~~~~Sinacor. /v-,.  ,,>   -
0.                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
4./oq                                                    Are                 ,          g
tp  angpan ,d nG  luk  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~~     V4SUMBAWA            2'0
Pada 0n@* 0  > \    >           ~           ,>                        1060
-2 0              (              b                              t                                   2 °-
Palembang
1                       ~~~~~~~~~~~rtapati
J..- \\.    bLuuklinggau              (
\           (; EninP~~~Muraerabumfi 
'-EASTERN
f             ~~~~PROPOSED
-4-                                u~~~~~enkl  it sam                                ROUTE
0     50    100   150   200    <      \    a Me J     a       a
KILOMETERS                    I       anko Coal      art.
0        50        100       150      '\,J> 
MILES                                                 tm   i            .
INDONESIA                                                     I 
Tanjungkar ng
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING                                     Telukbetung
6°    AND TRANSPORT PROJECT                               sou THEROPOSE            .<anjyng,6up
,BARE ROUTE          aay     *a'--   akarta
ROADS                                                         )      w 
-s---|---------RAI LWAYS                                    eQ  Labuhan               S
..         PROPOSED BARGE ROUTES                                                i Bandung
*      PROPOSED POWER PLANT AND
UNLOADING FACILITIES                 This map has been prpered bythe       L
PROPOSED TRANSMISSION LINES         the Conienienscof theteader5of
tereport to which it iattached.
PORTS                               The denominations used and the
b.undsries shown on this map
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES      ~~~~~~~do not imply, on the pert of the
* -     ~~~PROViNCIAL BOUNDARIES             Wrd Bnktipt and its Jafipfliates,J any
judgment on the legal stat us of
any tenitory o, any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries
1000                    1020                        104                         06°     FEBRUARY 197R



