ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frec ol Povorty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/09/2002                                24963
Section I - Basic Information                                    October 09, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: VIETNAM                                  Project ID: P071019
Project: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Task Team Leader: Jas Singh
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 3, 2002      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: January 21, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASEG                              Sector: District heating and energy efficiency
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  services (70%); Power (30%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
develop (P); Climate change (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of this project are to: (a) develop and expand demand-side management (DSM) business
programs and test new market transformation efforts within the national electric utility, Electricity of
Vietnarn (EVN); and (b) develop sustainable business models and mechanisms to support energy
efficiency (EE) retrofit investments in commercial and industrial facilities. This Project represents the
second phase of a longer, 12-year (1998-2010) proposed IDA/GEF-supported DSM and EE program
designed to achieve significant and sustainable reductions in energy consumption and peak power
demand in Vietnam. The program would, in the course of 3-4 phases, test, develop and scale-up
successful and sustainable business models to promote DSM/EE and facilitate investments. The first
phase (Phase I) of this DSMIEE program is now under implementation under the ongoing IDA/Swedisi
Sida-supported DSM program under the IDA-supported Transmission, Distribution and Disaster
Reconstruction Project (Credit 3034-VN).
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project consists of two components: (i) a second phase DSM component under EVN; and (ii) a pilot
commercial EE program under Mol. For the EVN component, a total investment of US$8.22 million
would be sought to support the, continuation of EVN's DSM activities initiated under the IDA/Sida
project and, specifically, implement four large DSM programs and supporting activities to achieve major
reductions in peak load, improve system load factors, transform select lighting markets, and assist
customers with ongoing tariff reforms. A US$5.20 million credit has already been approved under the
SEIER Project and additional support would be provided through a US$2.25 million GEF grant and
US$0.77 million from EVN's internal funds. The Mol component would seek to test and develop
business models and mechanisms to support commercial EE services and investmenits in industrial and
commercial facilities, which would require an estimated $11.02 million in total project financinlg ($3.25



2
ISDS
million GEF, $7.32 million private sector, $0.45 million Mol). Project performance indices will be
monitored during implementation of Phase 2 which will then be used as a basis for developing
appropriate intervention strategies for future phases and the need for further GEF support.
The full second phase DSM/EE program will consist of the following elements:
Component 1. EVN's DSM Program (US$8.22 million). The main focus of this component would be
to implement EVN's DSM business plan which was developed as part of the Phase 1 efforts. This
component has been designed to achieve over 120 MW in system peak reduction and electricity savings
of about 500 GWh through the implementation of several DSM measures. The program would be
managed by EVN and implemented with support from its PCs and would include:
a) Expanded TOU Metering EVN and its PCs would procure and install 5,600 TOU meters in about
4,000 large- and medium-sized customer premises to help rationalize electricity consumption during peak
periods. This would be combined with a marketing and customer consultation component to assist
end-users to better understand the TOU rates and identify options to shift load to off-peak or low-load
hours. The associated IDA SEIER credit would support procurement and installation these meters as
well as support project marketing and administration.
b) Pilot DLC Program  EVN, in collaboration with PC HCMC and PC Hanoi, would introduce a pilot
direct load control (DLC) program using ripple control systems to curtail demand of about 2,000
customer end-use loads on a voluntary basis. The equipment (central stations, receivers, communication
systems) would be purchased with the associated IDA credit and EVN would use its counterpart funds to
pay for program administration and incentives for participating customers.
c) CFL, Promotion: EVN would promote sales of I million CFLs to Vietnamese households located in
areas of high loads and network congestion. EVN would procure CFLs in bulk and distribute them
through their PC branch offices, lighting retailers and/or community-based NGOs. Over the three-year
prograrn period, EVN would use declining discounts, combined with marketing efforts, to promote the
use of the more efficient lamps. GEF funds would be used to test the program in the first year and test
alternative delivery/financing mechanisms for the lamps, and associated IDA funds would be used in the
second and third years.
d) FTL, Market Transformationi EVN also plans to promote high-efficiency 18/36 W T-8 fluorescent
tube lamps (FTLs), by supporting marketing efforts in conjunction with participating manufacturers to
actively market the more efficient lamps. EVN would also launch a parallel campaign to educate
consumers about efficient FTLs as well as low-loss electronic ballasts. GEF funds would support the
marketing efforts to both the manufacturers and EVN, and EVN's internal funds would support project
management and administration.
e) Supporting Programs and Technical Assistance In addition to the four DSM programs noted above,
EVN will initiate complementary activities to support these efforts. Such activities will include load
research (both facility and end-use levels) to determine customer class and end-use profiles and energy
savings potential/impacts, DSM program planning and policy support, development and implementation
of new pilot DSM programs, DSM business opportunities studies, DSM program monitoring and
evaluation, and support to the DSM Center (equipment, staffing, institutional development).
Component 2. Pilot Commercial EE Program (US$11.02 million).The project will also include a
pilot commercial EE program, which would seek to test appropriate business models and mechanisms to
catalyze a small and sustainable service market to support EE investments in Vietnam. This would be
achieved by supporting a small group of commercial service providers or "project agents" in all phases of
EE project identification, development and implementation. Given the existing poor financial conditions



3
ISDS
among many industrial enterprises, the pilot program will initially focus on private commercial buildings,
hotels, other office buildings and selected creditworthy industrial sub-sectors capable of accessing
financing on their own. Specific activities under this component would include:
a) Comprehensive Project Agent Training Program The program would support a major training
program to provide basic technical, financial and business knowledge to project agents to facilitate the
development and implementation of project proposals as well as some customized technical assistance to
develop their marketing and business plans. Technical training would be provided for energy auditing,
technical system analyses and recommended efficiency improvements in the four end-use systems
targeted, financial analyses of EE investments and technology options, various contractual options for EE
services, project management, energy savings verification, marketing and sales, etc.
b) Subproiect Audit and Investment Grarrts The program would provide subproject grants, to be
administered by a local commercial bank or Administrative Unit (AU), for energy audits and investments
to project agents and their customers.  For the audit grants, the program  would offer grant
reimbursements for energy audits. As agent capabilities improve and awareness and confidence in EE
measures increases, the percentage of audit costs eligible for grant reimbursement will be reduced during
the program period. The GEF grant would also provide investment grants (up to 20 percent of project
investment) for customers and agents that have fully implemented the EE investments from the audit
report. Initial subprojects would be eligible for the full 20 percent grant if they allow Mol to use the
project as a case study for other project agents and end-users. As with the audit grants, these investment
grants would be used to reduce barriers to customer skepticism of EE project performance and gradually
be reduced as agent reputations and technical expertise improve.
c) Program Marketing, Monitoring and Administration The program would also offer support for: (i)
program marketing (e.g., identification and recruitment of project agents, raising awareness of potential
customers of EE services, case study development and dissemination to project agents and end-users,
etc.); (ii) program administration and monitoring (e.g., AU management fees, technical support, program
database development and monitoring, post-installation inspections, evaluation and reporting); (iii)
technical assistance to Mol and the AU; and (iv) feasibility studies for expanding successful business
models, developing more complex models, establishing various financial mechanisms and instruments
(e.g., credit lines, dedicated funds, guarantees, supplier credit/leasing arrangements, etc.) and support
policy reviews to support project pipelines, and further market expansion in future IDA/GEF operations.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Chleck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. Since this project will only involve the installation of meters, DLC receivers and retrofit of
existing equipment (e.g., lighting, motors and pumps, air conditioners and chillers, capacitors, etc.) and no
new construction or greenfield development, no adverse environmental impacts are expected. This project
will result in major positive impacts on the environment, in terms of improved EE, reduced air pollution, and
reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The greenhouse gas and other pollutant emissions as well as reductions
in energy use will be quantified for each project activity. Since the Project would support a number of
subprojects that have yet to be identified, Mol will prepare an Operation Manual, which would include a
basic environmental screening section, to further ensure that there would not be any negative environmental
impacts from supported subprojects. Mol will develop and submit an outline of this Manual by Project



4
ISDS
Appraisal.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     - Yes * No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                          Yes  * No     TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes  * No     TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes *No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes *No       TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes * No      TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes *No       TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                   Yes * No      TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*              Yes * No      TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         C Yes   * No     TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
lI.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards ClassifIcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] S . - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[  S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues



5
ISDS
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Mamagement Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Jas Singh                                     10/03/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Bekir A. Onursal/Person/World Bank       10/03/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                            10/03/02
Sector Manager/Director:       Mohammad Farhandi                            10/03/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK       SrTE MAP       SHOWCASE      t



