Report No. PID11457
Project Name             VIETNAM-Demand-Side Management & Energy (@)
Efficiency Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   District heating and energy efficiency
services (70%); Power (30%)
Project ID               P071019
Borrower(s)              STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND ELECTRICITY
OF VIETNAM
Ministry of Industry
Address: 54 Hai Ba Trung Street, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr. Pham Manh Thang
Tel: (84-4) 825-8161
Fax: (84-4) 825-8210
Email: Dsmmoi@Hn.Vnn.Vn
Electricity of Vietnam
Address: 18 Tran Nguyen Han, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr. Pham Quang Huy
Tel: (84-4) 934-7651
Fax: (84-4) 934-7650
Email: Huypq@Evn.Com.Vn
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        September 23, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date       January 21, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Energy Sector. The energy sector can provide the essential underpinning
to future economic growth in Vietnam. Today, it contributes over a
quarter of total foreign exchange earnings, from oil and coal exports.
Energy demand has been growing at about 13 percent, faster than GDP, over
the last five years. Continued expansion in energy and electricity supply
and delivery infrastructure will enable rapid growth in the agricultural
and industrial sectors and sustain economic growth. It can also help
alleviate poverty by providing energy access to the poor and mitigate
environmental degradation by encouraging the shift from traditional to
commercial energy, as well as appropriate fuel choices in expanding
commercial supplies.New challenges have emerged in the energy sector
requiring structural and institutional reforms that are both more
difficult and more complex. First, to meet the economic growth targets,
electricity supplies will need to grow to support economic growth rates.
But this growth will need to be both efficient and more equitably
distributed through aggressive DSM and rural energy programs, as today 79
percent of the rural population consumes less than 20 percent of total
electricity. Second, although Vietnam is a resource rich country, it
should strive to develop the energy sector along an environmentally



sustainable path. The promotion of more efficient use of electricity and
reduction in peak loads will ease constraints on the national system,
reduce the need for new generation and system capacity and reduce energy
generation requirements leading to corresponding emission reductions.
Recent natural gas discoveries offshore also provide an opportunity to
make environmentally and economically beneficial energy use choices.
Vietnam is also well endowed with renewable energy resources to generate
electricity to serve rural communities. However, only a quarter of its
hydro resources are developed, and little to none of its other resources.
Third, Vietnam has to invest almost 5.3 percent of its GDP, twice the rate
of its ASEAN neighbors, in energy infrastructure. Fundamental reform of
energy tariffs, with respect to both level and structure, and increased
investments in DSM are required to ease financing constraints and ensure
long-term efficiency in investment and resource utilization decisions
throughout the economy. Since two thirds of the required investments will
need to come from overseas development assistance, export credits and
foreign direct investments, public financial resources and government
guarantees for private investment should be selectively used. Fourth,
attracting foreign private investment will require the creation of an
enabling environment and legal framework. The Government needs to embark
on restructuring and rationalization of the energy state owned
enterprises, creating a regulatory system and developing a mechanism to
coordinate policy and investment decisions in the energy sector.DSM and
Energy Efficiency. From 1992-97, Vietnam experienced unprecedented
economic growth, averaging 8.2 percent annually. During this same period,
energy demand grew 30 percent faster than GDP and electricity 70 percent
faster. The ability of Vietnam to continue to meet such an aggressive
economic growth rate will require substantial expansion of the energy
sector and, in particular, the electric power sector. The Bank estimates
that the power utility, EVN, will experience almost a threefold increase
in demand over the next 10 years, from about 30,800 GWh in 2001 to over
70,400 GWh by 2010, with annual demand growth of 13-15 percent. (In 2001,
EVN's peak demand increased by some 18 percent over 2000.)
Generation-level peak power demand is also projected to increase from the
2001 level of 5,655 MW to more than 16,000 MW by 2010, requiring an
associated capital investment of more than US$15 billion (over $1 billion
per year). EVN is now experiences system capacity constraints during
evening peak hours (6-lOpm), with daily peak loads 2-3 times those of
off-peak hours, which has resulted in periodic brownouts, low system load
factors and major investment requirements in capacity enhancements to meet
demand for only a few hours of the day. The projected annual increases in
electricity demand over the next few years, combined with the ongoing
efforts to increase grid-based electrification to remote areas, will only
exacerbate this situation. The major contributors to the increase in peak
loads and energy consumption are various end uses (motors, process loads,
lighting etc.) in large industrial and commercial customers and lighting
loads in the residential and small commercial customers. Thus, the GOV
and Bank have concluded that it is essential for DSM and EE programs to be
developed and strengthened in order to meet the country's resource
requirements and minimize the local and global environmental impacts of
this growth.In 1997, EVN, with World Bank assistance, commissioned the
"Demand-Side Management Assessment for Vietnam," which identified
important opportunities for cost-effective electricity savings in a number
of sectors and end-use applications. It recommended a two-phased approach
for implementing DSM, which would save an estimated 700 MW of capacity and
- 2 -



more than 3,550 GWh/yr by the year 2010. Under Phase 1, supported by a
SEK 29 million (about US$2.8 million) Swedish Sida grant under the
Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project (Credit
3034-VN), a number of key technical assistance and capacity building
activities were initiated, including development of an EVN DSM business
plan for Phase 2. As a result of Phase 1 efforts, EVN management has
accepted the need for DSM options to complement its large-scale
supply-side investments.Commercial Energy Efficiency: In addition to
utility-sponsored activities, there is a small but growing number of
commercially-oriented firms that are providing energy services to
commercial and industrial customers. These include about six entities
that are now developing and implementing energy efficiency projects. A
small number of these firms have been pioneering more complex service
models to grow their respective businesses and facilitate transactions in
energy efficiency during recent years. These models have involved vendor
financing of EE equipment costs to allow end-user payments to be staggered
based on energy savings over a fixed period; deferred payment (as a lump
sum) for equipment after its performance has been demonstrated; phasing EE
investments into several smaller projects and using the proceeds of one to
finance the next; and basing equipment/service payments on guaranteed
performance of energy savings. However, these firms have encountered a
number of constraints to business growth which range from limited equity
and financing to low awareness and credibility/risk sharing of energy
savings. In addition, there are some 40 firms that are interested in
entering the market, provided conditions improve and the overall
understanding of these projects among end-users is enhanced. Of these,
there are eleven local equipment manufacturers, seventeen equipment
suppliers (importers and distributors), eight technical services providers
(energy auditors, engineering consulting, etc.) and four financial
services providers. Some are fully private local firms, some are
quasi-public entities, some are research institutes and others are
international or joint-venture companies. It was, therefore, concluded by
MoI and the Bank that there is considerable opportunity to support this
emerging commercial market through GOV/GEF support. As electricity
tariffs continue to increase, state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform
progresses, and economic and energy demand growth rates persist, it is
expected that there will be a greatly expanding market for these emerging
businesses to tap.
2. Objectives
The objectives of this project are to: (a) develop and expand demand-side
management (DSM) business programs and test new market transformation
efforts within the national electric utility, Electricity of Vietnam
(EVN); and (b) develop sustainable business models and mechanisms to
support energy efficiency (EE) retrofit investments in commercial and
industrial facilities. This Project represents the second phase of a
longer, 12-year (1998-2010) proposed IDA/GEF-supported DSM and EE program
designed to achieve significant and sustainable reductions in energy
consumption and peak power demand in Vietnam. The program would, in the
course of 3-4 phases, test, develop and scale-up successful and
sustainable business models to promote DSM/EE and facilitate investments.
The first phase (Phase 1) of this DSM/EE program is now under
implementation under the ongoing IDA/Swedish Sida-supported DSM program
under the IDA-supported Transmission, Distribution and Disaster
Reconstruction Project (Credit 3034-VN).
-3-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed Project, along with the associated SEIER Project, will
provide GOV with key support needed to help reduce energy demand and use
energy more efficiently. The Bank team has worked very closely with the
EVN and MoI counterparts to supervise the first phase for the DSM program
and develop this second phase effort. Of particular interest to the GOV
is the need for greater investment levels in EE that other programs and
donors have been unable to provide or generate so far. Furthermore, the
Bank has been able to offer considerable experience on DSM and EE programs
elsewhere, particularly in Asia, which has greatly helped the Vietnamese
counterparts select elements from other programs suitable to Vietnam.
Finally, the Bank actively encouraged the use of a participatory approach
to project design, which has allowed the design to better reflect the
needs of all stakeholders and will help ensure that the Project impacts
are fully realized.
4. Description
The project consists of two components: (i) a second phase DSM component
under EVN; and (ii) a pilot commercial EE program under MoI. For the EVN
component, a total investment of US$8.22 million would be sought to
support the continuation of EVN's DSM activities initiated under the
IDA/Sida project and, specifically, implement four large DSM programs and
supporting activities to achieve major reductions in peak load, improve
system load factors, transform select lighting markets, and assist
customers with ongoing tariff reforms. A US$5.20 million credit has
already been approved under the SEIER Project and additional support would
be provided through a US$2.25 million GEF grant and US$0.77 million from
EVN's internal funds. The MoI component would seek to test and develop
business models and mechanisms to support commercial EE services and
investments in industrial and commercial facilities, which would require
an estimated $11.02 million in total project financing ($3.25 million GEF,
$7.32 million private sector, $0.45 million MoI) . Project performance
indices will be monitored during implementation of Phase 2 which will then
be used as a basis for developing appropriate intervention strategies for
future phases and the need for further GEF support.The full second phase
DSM/EE program will consist of the following elements:Component 1. EVN's
DSM Program (US$8.22 million) . The main focus of this component would be
to implement EVN's DSM business plan which was developed as part of the
Phase 1 efforts. This component has been designed to achieve over 120 MW
in system peak reduction and electricity savings of about 500 GWh through
the implementation of several DSM measures. The program would be managed
by EVN and implemented with support from its PCs and would include:a)
Expanded TOU Metering: EVN and its PCs would procure and install 5,600
TOU meters in about 4,000 large- and medium-sized customer premises to
help rationalize electricity consumption during peak periods. This would
be combined with a marketing and customer consultation component to assist
end-users to better understand the TOU rates and identify options to shift
load to off-peak or low-load hours. The associated IDA SEIER credit would
support procurement and installation these meters as well as support
project marketing and administration.b) Pilot DLC Program: EVN, in
collaboration with PC HCMC and PC Hanoi, would introduce a pilot direct
load control (DLC) program using ripple control systems to curtail demand
of about 2,000 customer end-use loads on a voluntary basis. The equipment
(central stations, receivers, communication systems) would be purchased
with the associated IDA credit and EVN would use its counterpart funds to
- 4 -



pay for program administration and incentives for participating
customers.c) CFL Promotion: EVN would promote sales of 1 million CFLs to
Vietnamese households located in areas of high loads and network
congestion. EVN would procure CFLs in bulk and distribute them through
their PC branch offices, lighting retailers and/or community-based NGOs.
Over the three-year program period, EVN would use declining discounts,
combined with marketing efforts, to promote the use of the more efficient
lamps. GEF funds would be used to test the program in the first year and
test alternative delivery/financing mechanisms for the lamps, and
associated IDA funds would be used in the second and third years.d) FTL
Market Transformation: EVN also plans to promote high-efficiency 18/36 W
T-8 fluorescent tube lamps (FTLs), by supporting marketing efforts in
conjunction with participating manufacturers to actively market the more
efficient lamps. EVN would also launch a parallel campaign to educate
consumers about efficient FTLs as well as low-loss electronic ballasts.
GEF funds would support the marketing efforts to both the manufacturers
and EVN, and EVN's internal funds would support project management and
administration.e) Supporting Programs and Technical Assistance: In
addition to the four DSM programs noted above, EVN will initiate
complementary activities to support these efforts. Such activities will
include load research (both facility and end-use levels) to determine
customer class and end-use profiles and energy savings potential/impacts,
DSM program planning and policy support, development and implementation of
new pilot DSM programs, DSM business opportunities studies, DSM program
monitoring and evaluation, and support to the DSM Center (equipment,
staffing, institutional development).Component 2. Pilot Commercial EE
Program (US$11.02 million). The project will also include a pilot
commercial EE program, which would seek to test appropriate business
models and mechanisms to catalyze a small and sustainable service market
to support EE investments in Vietnam. This would be achieved by
supporting a small group of commercial service providers or "project
agents" in all phases of EE project identification, development and
implementation. Given the existing poor financial conditions among many
industrial enterprises, the pilot program will initially focus on private
commercial buildings, hotels, other office buildings and selected
creditworthy industrial sub-sectors capable of accessing financing on
their own. Specific activities under this component would include:a)
Comprehensive Project Agent Training Program: The program would support a
major training program to provide basic technical, financial and business
knowledge to project agents to facilitate the development and
implementation of project proposals as well as some customized technical
assistance to develop their marketing and business plans. Technical
training would be provided for energy auditing, technical system analyses
and recommended efficiency improvements in the four end-use systems
targeted, financial analyses of EE investments and technology options,
various contractual options for EE services, project management, energy
savings verification, marketing and sales, etc.b) Subproject Audit and
Investment Grants: The program would provide subproject grants, to be
administered by a local commercial bank or Administrative Unit (AU), for
energy audits and investments to project agents and their customers. For
the audit grants, the program would offer grant reimbursements for energy
audits. As agent capabilities improve and awareness and confidence in EE
measures increases, the percentage of audit costs eligible for grant
reimbursement will be reduced during the program period. The GEF grant
would also provide investment grants (up to 20 percent of project
- 5-



investment) for customers and agents that have fully implemented the EE
investments from the audit report. Initial subprojects would be eligible
for the full 20 percent grant if they allow MoI to use the project as a
case study for other project agents and end-users. As with the audit
grants, these investment grants would be used to reduce barriers to
customer skepticism of EE project performance and gradually be reduced as
agent reputations and technical expertise improve.c) Program Marketing,
Monitoring and Administration: The program would also offer support for:
(i) program marketing (e.g., identification and recruitment of project
agents, raising awareness of potential customers of EE services, case
study development and dissemination to project agents and end-users,
etc.); (ii) program administration and monitoring (e.g., AU management
fees, technical support, program database development and monitoring,
post-installation inspections, evaluation and reporting); (iii) technical
assistance to MoI and the AU; and (iv) feasibility studies for expanding
successful business models, developing more complex models, establishing
various financial mechanisms and instruments (e.g., credit lines,
dedicated funds, guarantees, supplier credit/leasing arrangements, etc.)
and support policy reviews to support project pipelines, and further
market expansion in future IDA/GEF operations.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.22
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDA FUND $5.20
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.50
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $7.32
Total Project Cost $19.24
6. Implementation
a.  Implementation period.   2003-2006.b.  Executing agencies.   The
executing agencies would be EVN and MoI.EVN would assume overall
responsibility for Component 1. This would include the development of
detailed DSM program designs and implementation plans, preparation of
evaluation plans, overall DSM planning functions, analysis of all market
and load research data, procurement of all equipment, procurement and
management of consultants and contractors, coordination of program
implementation with the PCs and other agencies, and reporting to IDA/GEF.
Since EVN does not have direct interface with energy consumers, the PCs
would have primary responsibility for recruiting customers for the load
management programs, installation of meters and DLC receivers, reselling
of CFLs and proving data requirements to support EVN's load analysis and
evaluation efforts.MoI will maintain overall responsibility for the
Component 2. This would include selection and supervision of the AU and
technical advisors, procurement and management of all training program
consultants, program marketing, monitoring, administration and reporting,
and coordination among the various program agents, customers, AU and
advisors.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability was a key consideration in the decision to develop the
programmatic approach adopted while designing this phased, 12-year
program. Initiatives developed under the first phase as well as those
- 6 -



under this Project will be actively supported and further expanded in
subsequent phases with Bank/GEF support. The concept is to provide a
longer-term vision for development assistance, a framework for scale-up of
mechanisms and business models tested in earlier operations, and
provisions for developing timely intervention mechanisms as programs,
markets and reforms develop.In addition, the program itself would seek
market-based, commercial funding for DSM and EE investments. The load
management programs under EVN are cost-effective and will help demonstrate
to EVN and GOV the potential commercial merits and impacts for further DSM
measures to help meet the rapidly growing electricity demand within the
country. EVN's market transformation activities are designed to achieve
large, sustained impacts on the CFL and FTL lighting markets and the DSM
learning grant would, in part, be used to set-up permanent revolving funds
that could operate in perpetuity and continue to promote energy-efficient
equipment. For the pilot commercial EE program, the focus on improving
program agent capability will lead to sustained market activity that will
eventually be entirely financed by the private sector. Early successes
with participating agents in the program would in turn lead to increased
business for them and deepen the level of market activity and momentum.
Support may be required in the future to facilitate commercial financing
of EE projects, but these future operations would develop local commercial
lending and, thus, eventually replace the need for any further Bank/GEF
support in this market.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
For EVN's DSM program, Bank/GEF experience has shown the need for proper
incentives for utilities to undertake DSM, thus EVN's programs have been
restricted to those that directly coincide with their system peak.
Previous operations have also shown the need for strong marketing efforts
by DSM units, role of manufacturer agreements and linkages to parallel
commercial financing programs, the need to develop sustainable DSM
institutional arrangements given ongoing restructuring plans, the need to
include distribution utilities in DSM implementation efforts, and design
of DSM programs in the local context - all which have been addressed
during project preparation.For the pilot commercial EE program,
operational experience has also shown the need for market mechanisms to
develop sustainable programs and, in particular, support for EE project
developers/service providers to assist end-users to identify, design,
package, mobilize financing, procure, install and commission energy
efficiency projects in order to develop sustainable, replicable,
commercially-oriented programs. The program design has also taken into
account the need to develop parallel marketing efforts to end-users,
select a few demonstrations for wider dissemination, and keeping a clear
focus on transactions and investments.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        None.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jas Singh
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-7-



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-0140
Fax:   (202) 522-1648
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 8-



