                                             Document of
                                          The WorldBank
                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                                           ReportNo: 24808-VN




                                  PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                                          PROPOSEDGRANT

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$5.5 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                 SOCIALISTREPUBLICOFVIETNAM

                                                 FORA

             DEMAND-SIDEMANAGEMENT AND ENERGYEFFICIENCYPROJECT



                                              May 30,2003




 Energy and Mining DevelopmentSector Unit
 Infrastructure Unit
 East Asia and Pacific Region



rThisdocumenthasa restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
 their officialduties. Its contentsmay nototherwise bedisclosedwithout World Bankauthorization

                                       -i-

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 27,2003)
                         Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (D)
                                   1D = US$0.00006465
                                 US$1 = D 15,468.0


                                 FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 -- December 31


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ALGAS    Asia Least-Cost Greenhouse Gas Abatement Strategy
 ASEAN    Association of South East Asian Nations
 AU       Administrative unit
 CAS      Country assistancestrategy
 CFL      Compact fluorescent lamp
 co2      Carbon dioxide
  DLC     Direct load control
 D S M    Demand-side mananement


I EVN    I Electricitv of Vietnam
  FMR      Financial monitoringreport
  FTL      Fluorescent tube lamp
I GDP    I Gross domestic Droduct                                              I
  GEF      Global Environment Facility
  GOV      Government of Vietnam
  GWh      Gigawatt-hours (1,000,000,000 watt-hours)
  LRMC     Long-run marginal cost
  MoC      Ministry of Construction
  M o I    Ministrv of Industrv
  MOST     Ministry of Science and Technology
  MW       Megawatt (1,000,000 watts)
I PC     I Power comnanv                                                       I
  PIP      Project implementationplan
  PMB      Project Management Board
  SEER     System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables (Project)
  SOE      State-owned enterprise
  Toe      Tons of oil equivalent
  TOU      Time-of-use
  UNDP     UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
  W        Watt


                         Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                      Country Director:     Klaus Rohland
              Sector ManagerDirector:       MohammadFarhandi
                    Task TeamLeader:        Nguyet Anh Pham

                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                              VIETNAM
         DEMAND-SIDEMANAGEMENT&ENERGYEFFICIENCYPROJECT

                                              CONTENTS

     A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                       Page

        1. Project development objective                   I                                2
        2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
        3. Global objective                                                                 2

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goi. supportedby the project    2
        2. Mainsector issuesand Government strategy                                         3
        3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                7

     C.Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                               9
        2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                     11
        3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
        4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                     11

     D.Project Rationale

        1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                         12
        2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
        3. Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design                                14
        4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
        5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                       14

     E.Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                         14
        2. Financial                                                                        15
        3. Technical                                                                        15
        4. Institutional                                                                    15
        5. Environmental                                                                    16
        6. Social                                                                           16
        7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                17

     F. Sustainability andRisks

        1. Sustainability                                                                   17
        2. Replicationplan                                                                  17
        3. Critical risks                                                                   18
        4. Possiblecontroversial aspects                                                    19


This document has a restricted distribution and may beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

   G. Main Conditions

      1. Effectiveness Condition                         19
      2. Other                                           19

   H. Readinessfor Implementation                        21

   I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                          22




Annexes

   Annex 1: Project DesignSummary                        23
   Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                  26
   Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                       38
   Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis                     39
   Annex 5A: Financial Management Arrangements           45
   Annex 5B: Financial Summary                           50
   Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    54
   Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                  59
   Annex 8: Documents inthe ProjectFile                  60
   Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits               61
   Annex 10: Country at a Glance                         63
   Annex 11:Vietnam Energy Efficiency Market             65

                                                  VIETNAM
                             Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project

                                      ProjectAppraisal Document
                                           East Asia andPacificRegion
                                                     EASEG


Date: May 30,2003                             Team Leader: NguyetAnh Pham
Sector Managermirector: MohammadFarhandi Sector(@: District heatingandenergy efficiency services (70%),
Country ManagerDirector: KlausRohland         Power (30%)
Project ID: PO71019                           Theme(s): Infrastructure services for privatesector develop (P),


[ ]Loan          [ ] Credit  [XI Grant      [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:


For LoandCreditdOthers:
Amount (US$m):




BORROWERlRECIPIENT                                                   1.21               0.00            1.21
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDAFUND                             0.48                4.72            5.20
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                          3.45               2.06            5.50
LOCAL SOURCES OFBORROWINGCOUNTRY                                     3.32               3.32            6.65
Total:                                                               8.46              10.10           18.56

Borrower/Recipient: STATE BANK OF VIETNAM, SOCIALISTREPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND ELECTRICITY OFVIETNAM
Ministry of Industry
Address: 54 HaiBaTrungStreet, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr.PhamManhThang
Tel: (84-4) 825-8161            Fax: (84-4) 825-8210              Email: Dsmmoi@Hn.Vnn.Vn
Other Agency(ies):
Electricity of Vietnam
Address: 18Tran NguyenHan, Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr.PhamQuangHuy
Tel: (84-4) 934-7651            Fax: (84-4) 934-7650              Email: Huypq@Evn.Com.Vn




Project implementationperiod: 4 years

                                                      - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of this project are to: (a) develop and expand demand-side management (DSM) business
programs and test new market transformation efforts within the national electric utility, Electricity of
Vietnam (EVN); and (b) develop sustainable business models and mechanisms to support energy
efficiency (EE) retrofit investments in commercial and industrial facilities. This Project represents the
second phase of a longer, 12-year (1998-2010) proposed IDNGEF-supported DSM and EE program
designed to achieve significant and sustainable reductions in energy consumption and peak power
demand in Vietnam.        The program would, in the course of 3-4 phases, test, develop and scale-up
successful and sustainable business models to promote DSM/EE and facilitate investments. The first
phase (Phase 1) of this DSM/EE program i s now under implementation under the ongoing IDNSwedish
Sida-supported D S M program under the IDA-supported Transmission, Distribution and Disaster
ReconstructionProject (Credit 3034-VN).

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for this Project will include: (i) energy saved and corresponding
                                                                       total
reduction in carbon dioxide emissions resulting from the DSM and EE investments catalyzed under the
Project; (ii) peak demand reductions resulting from utility load management and EE programs; and (iii)
total commercial activity and investments for Vietnam's energy service industry. Detailed performance
indicators, along with specific targets and schedules, are included inAnnex 1.

3. Global Objective (see Annex 1)

The global objective of the Project i s to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in
the energy sector through the systematic removal of barriers to DSM and EE investments. This will be
achieved by supporting large-scale DSM and commercial EE programs in Vietnam and building
capability to design, deliver and evaluate such programs within the power utilities, government agencies
and private sector.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country AssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24621-VN (September 16,2002); IDA/R2002-0150 (IFCR2002-0174)
Date of latest CAS Discussion: September 3,2002
This Project is in full compliance with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (Report 24621) which
outlines an emphasis on partnerships and donor coordination and identifies three themes for future IDA
support: (i)   Supporting the transition towards a market-oriented economy; (ii)       Enhancing equitable,
socially-inclusive and sustainable development; and (iii)    Promoting good governance. For infrastructure,
the CAS notes the need to improve service levels and remove bottlenecks which constrain development
and competitiveness. The energy sector would also contribute substantially to economic growth. Its
continued development i s essential to sustaining industrial growth and employment generation. The
report "Fueling Vietnam's Development: New Challenges for the Energy Sector" (April 1999) identifies
the key issues and lays out a strategy for the sector, which will support extending access in rural areas,
increase the efficiency in the entire energy chain and create creditworthy institutions as well as improve
corporate governance and rationalize sector management, shift towards mobilization of external financial
resources for the sector to ensure the country meeting its energy demands, providing services that will
facilitate private participation inthe energy sector.

This proposed GEF Project is consistent with the CAS goals through: (i)          supporting market-oriented
mechanisms to support DSM and EE investments; (ii)            promotion of private sector participation and

                                                    - 3 -

investment in the energy and related sectors by developing a commercial energy service industry; (iii)
improving economic management and reducing infrastructure bottlenecks in the power sector through
effective DSM programs; (iv) raising productivity in selected sectors by reducing energy costs; and (v)
environmentalprotection through EEimprovements.

la. Global Operational strategyProgramobjective addressedby the project:
The project is consistent with the objectives of the GEF Operational ProgramNo. 5: Removal of Barriers
to Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation. The Project would support a long-term, programmatic
approach to the development of sustainable investments inDSMand EE. The Project was designed with
significant inputs from four stakeholder workshops, which provided for active participation and strong
ownership among the Vietnamese agencies.

2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:
Energy Sector. The energy sector can provide the essential underpinning to future economic growth in
Vietnam. Today, it contributes over a quarter of total foreign exchange earnings, from oil and coal
exports. Energy demand has been growing at about 13 percent, faster than GDP, over the last five years.
Continued expansion in energy and electricity supply and delivery infrastructure will enable rapid growth
inthe agricultural and industrial sectors and sustain economic growth. It can also help alleviate poverty
by providing energy access to the poor and mitigate environmental degradation by encouraging the shift
from traditional to commercial energy, as well as appropriate fuel choices in expanding commercial
supplies.

New challenges have emerged in the energy sector requiring structural and institutional reforms that are
both more difficult and more complex. First, to meet the economic growth targets, electricity supplies
will need to grow to support economic growth rates. But this growth will need to be both efficient and
more equitably distributed through aggressive DSM and rural energy programs, as today 79 percent of the
rural population consumes less than 20 percent of total electricity. Second, although Vietnam i s a
resource rich country, it should strive to develop the energy sector along an environmentally sustainable
path. The promotion of more efficient use of electricity and reduction inpeak loads will ease constraints
on the national system, reduce the need for new generation and system capacity and reduce energy
generation requirements leading to corresponding emission reductions. Recent natural gas discoveries
offshore also provide an opportunity to make environmentally and economically beneficial energy use
choices. Vietnam i s also well endowed with renewable energy resources to generate electricity to serve
rural communities. However, only a quarter of its hydro resources are developed, and little to none of its
other resources. Third, Vietnam has to invest almost 5.3 percent of its GDP, twice the rate of its ASEAN
neighbors, in energy infrastructure. Fundamental reform of energy tariffs, with respect to both level and
structure, and increased investments in DSM are required to ease financing constraints and ensure long-
term efficiency in investment and resource utilization decisions throughout the economy. Since two
thirds of the requiredinvestments will needto come from overseasdevelopment assistance, export credits
and foreign direct investments, public financial resources and government guarantees for private
investment should be selectively used. Fourth, attracting foreign private investment will require the
creation of an enabling environment and legal framework.         The Government needs to embark on
restructuring and rationalization of the state-owned energy enterprises, creating a regulatory system and
developing a mechanism to coordinate policy and investment decisions inthe energy sector.

Electricity Tariffs. Fundamental reforms of the energy tariffs are required to ease financing constraints
and ensure long-term efficiency of investment and resource utilization. Retail electricity tariffs, currently
uniform across Vietnam, are set by the GOV, and have been raised periodically since March 1992. The
most recent estimates of long-run marginal cost (LRMC) for retail tariffs are in the range of D1,125/kWh
(USe7SkWh). The achievement of an average tariff of US$7.0/kWh i s the development objective of
IDA'Songoing tariff and sector dialogue with the GOV. On September 20, 2002 the Prime Minister

                                                     - 4 -

issued a decision to increase the tariff levels which was implemented on October 1. The increase i s from
the previous average of 740DkWhto 840 DkWh-i.e., an increase of 13.5 percent. According to EVN,
the price for urban households increased by the highest level of 25 percent, from 592.72 D (USe3.95) per
kWh(VAT excluded) to 742.72 D (USqi4.95) per kWhon average. Power prices applying to residents in
rural areas have also risen by 19 percent, from 327 D (USqi2.18) per kWh to 390 D (USe2.6) per kWh.
Electricity for industrial production will increase by 11-12 percent. Charges for foreign invested firms
and foreigners, which are usually higher than domestic ones, remain unchanged as the government plans
to apply one electricity price for domestic and foreign consumers. Inaddition, on July 5, 2002 a time-of-
day bulk power tariff was initiated which includedthree tariff rates for peak, off-peak and low load hours
to the PCs. This new tariff schedule was revised inNovember to account for the October 1tariff increase
and would be retroactive. It i s expected that this new initiative will provide improved pricing signals for
the PCs to actively participate in the proposed DSMprograms and, thus, lost revenues by the PCs for
peak load reduction efforts would be substantially reduced. EVN also agreed to conduct a new study on
the bulkpower tariff under the SEER Project. Such a shift towards cost-basedpower tariffs will improve
the overall economic and financial viability of DSMand EEinvestments.

IDA Support. On June 25, 2002, the Bank`s Executive Board approved the associated IDNGEF-
supported System Energy Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables (SEER) Project. The
overall objectives of the SEER project are to contribute to the Government's poverty alleviation program
in rural areas and to improve the overall efficiency of power system services in the country. The
Project's main development objectives are to: (a) improve overall system efficiency and reduce
investment needs through (i)    optimization of the transmission system to reduce transmission losses; and
(ii)reduction of generation capacity increases by effective DSM and energy efficiency programs; (b)
enhanceenergy access for the poor inremote areas by (i)       upgradingof the 110kV sub-transmission and
the MV distribution lines for rural electrification; (ii)
                                                       rehabilitation of small hydro plants and construction
of a hybrid wind-diesel power plant supplying electricity to rural areas and an island; and (iii)
development of community- based utilities to provide renewable energy to remote communes not
accessible by the grid; and (c) sustain reform of the power sector through (i)     separation of generation,
transmission   and distribution by institutionalizing transfer pricing and distribution margins; (ii)
improvement of corporate governance by instituting more effective financial management and
information technology; and (iii)   equitization of districts and communes in north, center and southern
parts of the country to develop a creditworthy distribution sector.

DSM and Energy Efficiency. From 1992-97, Vietnam experienced unprecedented economic growth,
averaging 8.2 percent annually. During this same period, energy demand grew 30 percent faster than
GDP and electricity 70 percent faster. The ability of Vietnam to continue to meet such an aggressive
economic growth rate will require substantial expansion of the energy sector and, in particular, the
electric power sector. The Bank estimates that the power utility, EVN, will experience almost a threefold
increasein demand over the next 10years, from 25,843 GWhin 2001to over 70,400 GWhby 2010, with
annual demand growth of 13-15 percent. (In 2001, EVN's peak demand increased by some 18 percent
over 2000.) Generation-level peak power demand is also projected to increase from the 2001 level of
5,655 MW to more than 16,000 MW by 2010, requiring an associated capital investment of more than
US$15 billion (over $1.5 billion per year). EVN i s now experiences system capacity constraints during
evening peak hours (6-10pm), with daily peak loads 2-3 times those of off-peak hours, which has resulted
in periodic brownouts, low system load factors and major investment requirements in capacity
enhancements to meet demand for only a few hours of the day. The projected annual increases in
electricity demand over the next few years, combined with the ongoing efforts to increase grid-based
electrification to remote areas, will only exacerbate this situation. The major contributors to the increase
inpeak loads and energy consumption are various end uses (motors, process loads, lightingetc.) inlarge
industrial and commercial customers and lighting loads in the residential and small commercial
customers. Thus, the GOV and Bank have concluded that it i s essential for D S M and EE programs to be

                                                            - 5 -

developed and strengthened in order to meet the country's resource requirements and minimize the local
and global environmental impacts of this growth.

In1997,EVN, with World Bank assistance, commissioned the "Demand-Side Management Assessment
for Vietnam," which identified important opportunities for cost-effective electricity savings in a number
of sectors and end-use applications. It recommended a phased approach for implementing DSM, which
could save as much as 700 MW of capacity and more than 3,550 GWh/yr by the year 2010. Under Phase
1, supported by a SEK 29 million (about US$2.8 million) Swedish Sida grant under the Transmission,
Distribution and Disaster ReconstructionProject (Credit 3034-VN), a number of key technical assistance
and capacity building activities were initiated, including development of an EVNDSM business plan for
Phase 2, completion of a supporting DSM policy review and framework, and implementation and
evaluation of pilot load research, load management, lighting and marketing programs; the Ministry of
Construction (MoC) has developed an EE building code; and, the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MOST, formerly the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment or MoSTE) has developed and
will introduce EE lighting and industrial motor standards. As a result of Phase 1efforts, GOV and EVN
management have accepted the need for DSM options to complement its large-scale supply-side
investments.1

Commercial Energy Efficiency: In addition to utility-sponsored activities, there i s a small but growing
number of commercially-oriented firms that are providing energy services to commercial and industrial
customers. These include about six entities that are now developing and implementing EE projects. A
small number of these firms have been pioneering more complex service models to grow their respective
businesses and facilitate transactions inEEduringrecent years. However, these firms have encountered a
number of constraints to businessgrowth which range from limited equity and financing to low awareness
and credibility/risk sharing of energy savings. In addition, there are some 40 firms that are interested in
entering the market, provided conditions improve and the overall understanding of these projects among
end-users i s enhanced. It was, therefore, concluded by M o I and the Bank that there i s considerable
opportunity to support this emerging commercial market through GOV/GEF support. As electricity
tariffs continue to increase, state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform progresses, and economic and energy
demand growth rates persist, it i s expected that there will be a greatly expanding market for these
emergingbusinessesto tap.

DSM Policv Framework The policy framework influencing the implementation of DSM in Vietnam i s
governed by the legal system that includes a set of Laws, Decrees, Decisions, Circulars and other legal
documents issued by National Assembly, Government, and Ministries. Laws generally lay down a legal
framework that i s then subsequently elaborated by a Decree. Decrees are prepared by Ministries, and
often specify the processesby which the provisions of a Law are implemented.

The original policy framework was established by the 1983 Decree on Regulations on Electricity Supply
and Usage, which i s currently being revised. In1996, inaccordance with a Decision of the Government,
M o I began to prepare an Electricity Law for Vietnam.                  However, it has been difficult to achieve
consensus on the new Law, which i s at present in its 14th draft. The National Assembly i s expected to
approve the new Law before the end of 2003.

Among the most important Decrees (currently inpreparation) affecting the electricity industryare:

     0   Decree on the Establishment and Approval of Electricity Tariff
         Decree on the Organization and Operation of the Electricity Regulatory Directorate of Vietnam
         Decree on Electricity Operation and Usage
     0   Decree on Energy Conservation and Efficient Use

  For example, as aresult of the Phase 1 efforts and Phase 2 analyses, EVN has recognizedthe significant benefitsof expanded
time-of-use (TOU) meteringand, in 2002, self-financedand installedan additional 19,000 TOU meters. It is expectedthat this
will reduce EVN's systempeak by about 185-235MW.

                                                     - 6 -

The proposed Electricity Law has a number of provisions that relate to DSMand EE. For example, there
i s recognition of the need to introduce cost-based tariffs, develop a National Policy for Electric Power
Developmentthat includes DSM, and encouragethe use of highefficiency equipment and implementation
of DSM measures.        In the drafting of the Decrees, GOV has demonstrated its recognition of the
importance of EE and DSM, and its commitment to implementation of appropriate DSM programs. The
Decree on Energy Conservation and Efficient Use requires M o I to develop and to submit to the
government a five-year plan for energy development based on: (i)shifting the economy to a more
efficient structure; (ii)increasing the efficiency of energy use; (iii)       developing energy efficient
technology; (iv) promoting fuel substitution; and (v) establishing norms for energy using equipment and
appliances. (See a more detailed description about this Decree below.) The other Decrees also contain
provisions to promote DSM and EE.

The first phase DSM project activities included a detailed assessment of the existing policy framework
governing DSM, the roles and responsibilities of M o I and EVN, and recommendations for supplemental
regulatory instruments to allow and encourage DSM to be implemented by EVN and its PCs. This
comprehensive study concluded that no new policy measures or regulations were needed for EVN to
implement DSM programs, launch informational campaigns or provide relevant customer incentives
provided that suchprograms didnot unduly conflict with its core business. However, any DSM programs
that could significantly affect off-peak sales or provide national social benefits, which are clearly beyond
EVN's mandate, would require someregulatory instruments, perhapsinadditionto financial incentives to
EVN and the PCs, in order for such programs to proceed. At present, the Government is considering
these issues. However, at the present time, it has been agreed that EVNwill only develop DSM programs
that are commercially sound and cost-effective from EVN's perspective.              With this approach, no
additional regulatory instruments would be required.

Decree onEnergy Conservation and Efficient Use: A Decree has been developed by MoI, inconsultation
with other line ministries and broad public consensus, which establishesa broad regulatory framework for
the promotion of energy conservation and efficiency. The Decree is, in part, based on the Energy
Conservation Promotion Act from Thailand.           The latest draft Decree would regulate the energy
conservation and efficiency in production, buildings and equipment, power intensive machines and
residentialuse. Specifically, the Decree would require large factories (over 1,500 toe/year and/or 750kW
or 4.5 GWWyear electricity demand) to meet certain requirements specified by MoI, commercial
buildings (over 1,000 square meter floor area) to meet certain requirements developed by MoC,
establishment of national standards (initially voluntary) for energy intensive equipment by MoST and
M o Iand buildingcodes developed by MoC, creation of EEnorms for specialized equipment prevalent in
various ministries, required energy audits in facilities specified under the Decree, guidelines for a
financial framework for the promotion of EE, and other relevant provisions. The Decree would not create
an EEfund, but the GOV intends to create an Inter-Ministerial committee of MoI, MoST and Ministry of
Finance to prepare a Prime Ministerial decision for such a Fundto support EE investments and activities.
The Decree also addresses a number of other relevant issues, such as measures to reduce or eliminate
import tariffs on selectedEEequipment, to support its implementation. This GEF Project would provide
GOV with critical implementation experience and lessons learned for such programs that could then be
incorporated into the Decree's implementation framework and detailedplans.

Coordination with UNDP: UNDP i s also developing a number of fully complementary initiatives to
support energy efficiency programs within the country. The proposed UNDP-GEFEnergy Efficiency
Public Lighting Project (PDF B approved July 2000) would seek to remove barriers to EE lighting
systems in the public sector. The proposed project would seek to assist local governments to promote and
implement new and efficient lighting systems through innovative delivery mechanisms, impact
appropriate regulations of public lighting system, facilitate standards for street lighting and schools,
provide technical assistance to local manufacturers, and develop mechanisms to extend lighting services
to unmet areas. The proposed Promotion of Energy Conservation in Small and Medium Enterprises

                                                                - 7 -

(SME) Projects (PDF B approved July 2001) under MOSTwould promote energy conservation in SMEs,
largely through publicly-funded provincial energy conservation centers in Vietnam, and support
information dissemination, market development and access to financing. Agreement has been reached
with GOV that the Bank and UNDP programs will seek to complement one another by focusing on
different approaches (the Bank would focus on market-based EEdevelopment, while UNDPwould target
public policy/social EEprograms which would rely on greater public budgetary support) and markets (the
Bank would focus on larger, commercially-viable projects in larger end-users, while UNDPwould target
SMEs only).

Future supervision efforts by the Bank would continue to coordinate closely with the UNDPEEteam. In
addition, the Bank program has been developed to allow for full participation by UNDP project
partners/agencies/ESCOs in order to share knowledge and project resources.                                 With respect to
standarddcodes work, UNDP has agreed to move forward with the EE standards and codes work and i s
now developing a PDFA proposal for furthering the building EE work. However, due to recent GEF
funding constraints and ongoing review of the proposed Decree on Energy Conservation and Efficient
Use by the GOV, further work on these areas may be placed on hold until the local institutional
arrangements have been clarified, appropriate working groups and budgets established under the
appropriate ministries, and long-termplans have been developed.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the projectandstrategic choices:
IDA/GEF would support a phased, 12-year (1998-2010) programmatic approach to DSM and EE
activities in Vietnam. This program has begun with the IDA/Sida DSM project and would continue to
build upon initial program results and efforts in 2-3 components in future energy operations. The
rationale i s to provide a longer-term vision for development assistance, scale-up mechanisms and business
models tested in earlier operations, and develop timely intervention mechanisms as programs, markets
and reforms develop (see Figure A2-1, Annex 2). This project, along with the associated SEER Project,
would seek to address the main short- to medium-term energy sector issues described in Section B2 and,
inparticular, expand EVN's DSMprograms and test new models to support DSMandEEinvestments.

The rationale for supporting a D S M program within EVN and its PCs i s clear and would form a core
component of the IDA/GEF assistance program. The phased DSM program would seek to build upon
activities initiated under the IDA/Sida project through the large-scale implementation of successful pilot
activities, development of a broader portfolio of programs, improvement in EVN's DSM planning and
evaluation abilities, and development of timely and appropriate assistance as sector reforms deepen and
the landscape for D S M changes. Given EVN's business priorities, much of this program would focus on
load management measures, such as TOU metering, voluntary load control, and tariff reforms, and should
be supported with IDA financing. However, such load management efforts are not expected to achieve
sufficient peak reductions alone and EVN has expressed its desire to support more EE measures,
particularly efficient lighting in residential areas to shave peak loads and reduce new investment
requirements in these areas. EVN also sees that CFL promotion in rural areas can help mitigate the
effects of ongoing tariff reforms in these areas and, given barriers to the adoption of CFLs, GEF funds
will support efforts to address them. EVN's DSM Cell i s also interested in improving load research data
and information (both customer and end-use profiles), enhancing its audit and customer consultation
expertise, and mitigating the effects of ongoing tariff rationalizations through public awareness of DSM
measure and IDA/GEFand other donor funds would support these initiatives.

Interms of providing assistance to end-users, the development of an initially small but commercially-
oriented service industry to act as "project agents"* and provide support in any or all areas of project

*
~




   For the purposesof the pilot commercialEE program, the term "project agent" is usedrather than ESCO to represent service
providers. The rationalei s that there are severalmisconceptions about whether ESCOsmust offer a full range of project services
(e.g., energy audit, project design, financing, installation,etc.) and/or provide performanceguarantees. Thus the Bank team and
MoI concludedthat a more neutralterm like project agent would minimize confusion andbetter allow participatingVietnamese

                                                             - 8 -

development and implementation would offer the most suitable mechanism to address EE barriers on a
replicable and sustainable basis in Vietnam today. Because the domestic industrial sector i s still largely
state-owned and marginally creditworthy, the commercial EE pilot program will initially target those
creditworthy energy users -e.g., commercial buildings,hotels, other office buildings,certain highgrowth
industrial sub-sectors - that are able to access financing on their own. The strategy would be to build-up
core competencies among participating project agents in simple and replicable technical renovation
categories initially and develop more complex business models, technical innovations and financing
schemes in subsequent phases. As initial projects are developed and implemented, successful business
models would be identified and mechanisms developed to scale-up their operations. Initial phases will
include monitoring systems designed to identify strengths and weaknesses of program models as well as
feasibility studies for further market development, such as the potential for utility and non-utility energy
service companies (ESCOs), various market assessments, and options for financindguarantee programs,
which could then be further developed and/or implementedin subsequent phases with IDNGEFsupport.

Barriers to DSM and EE. While substantial opportunities clearly exist for DSM and EE improvements
in Vietnam, there are a number of key barriers that have prevented the development of meaningful
impacts to date. These include:
(i) inadequate information and skepticism, from and for end-users, equipment manufacturerdsuppliers
and service providers (including EVN) on potential DShUEE improvements, costs and benefits of
D S W E measures, potential low-cost measures, and new technologies/practices;
(ii) of technicalexpertise,byend-users,manufacturers/suppliers andpotentialserviceproviderson
     lack
modem efficient technologies and practices, efficiency potentials, DSM planning and implementation,
energy audits and inspections, actual performance of EE measures, limited understanding of third party
EEservices (e.g., ESCOs);
(iii)high capital investment costs,due to prevailing higher costs of EEequipment, limited local
manufacturing capability and import tariffs on EEequipment, which currently discourage end-users from
selecting high-efficiency equipment despite their overall lower life-cycle costs, particularly given limited
abilities of households to purchase EElightingand current short-term priorities among many Vietnamese
firms;
(iv) high project development costs, due to audits and technical studies required to properly determine
investment requirements and ensure appropriate project design, real and perceived risks of projects
developed by auditors with limited track record and technologies/equipment with limited tested
performance under Vietnamese conditions;
(v) lack of afordable financing, due to a lack of commercial lending culture in Vietnam, weak banking
sector and very limited term lending, restrictive lending terms, dominance of SOEs and dependence on
public budgets for project investment capital, foreign capital requirements for imported EE equipment,
relatively small investment sizes for EE, and limited affordable credit available to the residential sector;
(vi) poor customer creditworthiness, due to the poor financial status of many of the SOEs, which limit
DSM and EEinvestments;
(vii) limited interest ofend-users, due inpart to a production or core businesspriority bias, the sometimes
limited financial significance of the operating cost reductions from energy savings and the ownership of
savings benefits from SOEs/municipal agencies;
(viii) limited local EE and high quality equipment, given the current manufacturing capability within
Vietnam and low domestic demand for high-efficiency products; and
(ix) low energy tarifs, particularly inresidential households, which has served to discourage investments
inhigh-efficiency appliances and other DSMmeasures.


firms to provide the types andrangeof services they wished to offer rather thanseekingto expandtheir level of services basedon
their perceptionsof Westem ESCO models. Project agents may include energy auditors, equipment suppliers, leasing companies,
ESCOs,installationcontractors, andengineering companies.

                                                      - 9 -

Collectively, these issueshave discouraged any sizeable investments inefficiency measures.

 C. Project DescriptionSummary
 1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed cost
 breakdown):

                                          Indicative                          % of IDA       GEF      r0 of GEF
                Component                    costs                            financing financing iinancing
                                           (US$M)                                          (US$M)
 1.EVN's DSMProgram
    a. Expandedtime-of-use metering           2.35                               42.9        0.00         0.0
    b. Pilot direct loadcontrol program       0.72                  0.59         11.3        0.00         0.0
    c. CFL promotionb                          1.79        9.6      0.88         16.9        0.89        16.2
    d. FTLmarket transformation               0.78         4.2      0.00           0.0       0.73        13.3
    e. Supporting programs and technical      2.58        13.9      1.50         28.8        0.63        11.5
         assistance
 2. MoI's Pilot Commercial EEProgram                    I
    a. Training                                1.25        6.7      0.00           0.0       1.16        21.1
    b. Subprojectfinancing and grants         7.80        42.0      0.00           0.0       1.15        20.9
    c. Programmarketing, evaluation and        1.30        7.0      0.00           0.0       0.93        16.9
         administration
 Total Project Costs                         18.56                               100.0       5.50       100.0
 Jotes:
  a. IDA financing for Phase2 i s provided under the recently approved, associated SEER Project.
  b. Project costs do not include the US$2million associatedfinancing from end-users for the CFL program.

The project consists of two components: (i)secondphase DSM component under EVN; and (ii)pilot
                                                a                                                         a
commercial EE program under MoI. For the EVN component, a total investment of US$8.22 million
would be sought to support the continuation of EVN's DSM activities initiated under the IDA/Sida
project and, specifically, implement four large DSM programs and supporting activities to achieve major
reductions in peak load, improve system load factors, transform select lighting markets, and assist
customers with ongoing tariff reforms. A US$5.20 million credit has already been approved under the
SEER Project and additional support would be provided through a US$2.25 million GEF grant and
US$0.77 million from EVN's internal funds. The M o I component would seek to test and develop
business models and mechanisms to support commercial EE services and investments in industrial and
commercial facilities, which would require an estimated $10.34 million in total project financing ($3.25
million GEF, $6.65 million private sector, $0.44 million MoI). (See Table 1, for a further breakdown of
project financing requirements.) Project performance indices will be monitored during implementation of
Phase 2 which will then be used as a basis for developing appropriate intervention strategies for future
phases and the need for further GEF support (see Annex 2 for further details).

The full secondphaseDSM/EE programwill consist of the following elements:
Component 1. EVN's DSMProgram (US$8.22 million). The mainfocus of this component would be
to implement EVN's DSM business plan which was developed as part of the Phase 1 efforts. This
component has been designed to achieve over 120 MW in system peak reduction and electricity savings
of about 500 GWh through the implementation of several DSM measures. The program would be
managedby EVNand implemented with support from its PCs and would include:
a) Expanded TOU Metering: EVN and its PCs would procure and install 5,600 TOU meters in about
4,000 large- and medium-sizedcustomer premises to help rationalize electricity consumptionduringpeak
periods. This would be combined with a marketing and customer consultation component to assist end-
users to better understand the TOU rates and identify options to shift load to off-peak or low-load hours.
The associated IDA SEER credit would support procurement and installation these meters as well as
support project marketing and administration.

                                                  - 10-
b) Pilot DLC Program: EVN, incollaboration with PC HCMC and PC Hanoi, would introduce a pilot
direct load control (DLC) program using ripple control systems to curtail demand of about 2,000
customer end-use loads on a voluntary basis. The equipment (central stations, receivers, communication
systems) would be purchased with the associatedIDA credit and EVN would use its counterpart funds to
pay for program administration and incentives for participatingcustomers.
c) CFL Promotion: EVN would promote sales of 1million CFLs to Vietnamese households located in
areas of high loads and network congestion. EVN would procure CFLs in bulk and distribute them
through their PC branch offices, lighting retailers and/or community-based NGOs. Over the three-year
program period, EVN would use declining discounts, combined with marketing efforts, to promote the
use of the more efficient lamps. GEF funds would be used to support the launch and full-scale operation
of the program in the first year (e.g., lamp procurement and marketing) as well as test alternative
deliveqdfinancing mechanisms for the lamps, and associated IDA funds would be used to operate the
programinthe secondand third years.
d) FTL Market Transformation: EVN also plans to promote high-efficiency 18/36 W T-8 fluorescent
tube lamps (FTLs), by supporting marketing efforts in conjunction with participating manufacturers to
actively market the more efficient lamps. EVN would also launch a parallel campaign to educate
consumers about efficient F T L s as well as low-loss electronic ballasts. GEF funds would support the
marketing efforts to both the manufacturers and EVN, and EVN's intemal funds would support project
management and administration.
e) Supporting Programs and Technical Assistance: In addition to the four DSM programs noted above,
EVNwill initiate complementary activities to support these efforts. GEF funds would be used to support
DSM business opportunities studies and DSM program monitoring and evaluation, and associated IDA
funds would support loadresearch(both facility and end-use levels) to determine customer class and end-
use profiles and energy savings potentiallimpacts, DSM program planning and policy support,
development and implementation of new pilot DSM programs, and support to the DSM Center
(equipment, staffing, institutionaldevelopment).

Component 2. Pilot Commercial EE Program (US$10.34 million). The project will also include a
pilot commercial EEprogram, which would seek to test appropriate business models and mechanisms to
catalyze a small and sustainable service market to support EE investments in Viemam. This would be
achieved by supporting a small group of commercial service providers or "project agents" in all phases of
EEproject identification, development and implementation. Given the existing poor financial conditions
among many industrialenterprises, the pilot programwill initially focus on private commercial buildings,
hotels, other office buildings and selected creditworthy industrial sub-sectors capable of accessing
financing on their own. Over 200 subprojects would be supported in order to stimulate the market and
demonstrate the viability of such investments, saving over 300 GWh over the project period. Specific
activities under this component would include:

a) Comprehensive Project Agent Training Program: The program would support a major training
program to provide basic technical, financial and business knowledge to project agents to facilitate the
development and implementation of project proposals as well as some customized technical assistance to
develop their marketing and business plans. Technical training would be provided for energy auditing,
technical system analyses and recommended efficiency improvements in the four end-use systems
targeted, financial analyses of EE investments and technology options, various contractual options for EE
services, project management, energy savings verification, marketing and sales, etc.
b) Subproject Audit and Investment Grants: The program would provide over 200 subproject grants, to
be administered by a local commercial bank or Administrative Unit (AU), for energy audits and
investments to project agents and their customers. For the audit grants, the program would offer grant
reimbursements for energy audits. As agent capabilities improve and awareness and confidence in EE
measures increases, the percentage of audit costs eligible for grant reimbursement will be reduced during

                                                   - 11-

the program period. The GEF grant would also provide investment grants (up to 20 percent of project
investment) for customers and agents that have fully implemented the EE investments from the audit
report. Initial subprojects would be eligible for the full 20 percent grant if they allow M o I to use the
project as a case study for other project agents and end-users. As with the audit grants, these investment
grants would be used to reduce barriers to customer skepticism of EEproject performance and gradually
be reduced as agent reputations and technical expertise improve.
c) Program Marketing, Monitoring and Administration: The program would also offer support for: (i)
program marketing (e.g., identification and recruitment of project agents, raising awareness of potential
customers of EE services, case study development and dissemination to project agents and end-users,
etc.); (ii)
          program administration and monitoring (e.g., AU management fees, technical support, program
database development and monitoring, post-installation inspections, evaluation and reporting); (iii)
technical assistance to M o I and the AU; and (iv) feasibility studies for expanding successful business
models, developing more complex models, establishing various financial mechanisms and instruments
(e.g., credit lines, dedicated funds, guarantees, supplier credivleasing arrangements, etc.) and support
policy reviews to support project pipelines, and further market expansion infuture IDNGEFoperations.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The following policy and institutional reforms are being sought under the associated IDNGEF SEER
Project, which would allow this Project to fully realize its objectives and impacts:

The principal institutional reform would be capacity building to define and implement institutional
structures for improving system efficiency, creating a creditworthy distribution sector and sustainable
institutions for renewable energy development. The Project would also support improvement in system
efficiency, corporate business and information management systems and increased decentralization and
commercialization of management through: (a) implementation of EVN's comprehensive and modern
information technology (IT) Strategy; (b) separation of power plants and independent accounting units
with explicit, incentive-based power purchase agreements with EVN; and (c) introduction of cost-based
bulkpower tariffreplacingthe internalbulktariff betweenEVNandthe PCs.

3. Benefitsand target population:
The project will provide measurable, cost-effective reductions in energy use, greenhouse gas emissions
and other pollutants. Detailed estimates of direct energy savings benefits over a ten year period total
about 120 MW in peak load reduction and 2,928 GWh, resulting in over 724 thousand tons of oil
equivalent (toe) and 3.5 million tons of carbon (see Annex 4 for further details).

In addition to the environmental benefits, EVN and its PCs will substantially benefit from reduced peak
loads, network congestion and new investment requirements from its D S M programs. EVN's CFL
program i s also expected to offer major social benefits to households, particularly in rural areas, by
reducing the impacts of recent and planned electricity tariff increases. EVN's DSM programs could also
help reduce public resistance to expected tariff reforms as the utility offers information and support in
helping consumers use their electricity more efficiently. Industrial, commercial and residentialconsumers
will benefit from reduced energy/operating costs and corresponding increases in productivity and
competitiveness from the activities initiated under the Project. Project agents will benefit from increased
business prospects for providing commercial services and technical assistance to expand their capabilities
and EEequipment manufacturers would benefit from increased sales of their products.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
a. Implementation period. 2003-2006.

b. Executingagencies. The executingagencieswould beEVNandMoI.

                                                  - 12-
EVN would assume overall responsibility for Component 1. This would include the development of
detailed DSM program designs and implementation plans, preparation of evaluation plans, overall DSM
planning functions, analysis of all market and load researchdata, procurement of equipment, procurement
and management of consultants and contractors, coordination of program implementation with the PCs
and other agencies, and reporting to IDNGEF. Since EVN does not have direct interface with energy
consumers, the PCs would have primary responsibility for recruiting customers for the load management
programs, installation of meters and DLC receivers, reselling of CFLs and proving data requirements to
support EVN's load analysis and evaluation efforts.
UIwillmaintainoverallresponsibilityfor theComponent 2. This wouldincludeselection and
supervision of the AU and technical advisors, procurement and management of all training program
consultants, program marketing, monitoring, administration and reporting, and coordination among the
various programagents, customers, AU and advisors.

Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangement

Assessment of the adequacy of the financial management system of implementing agencies and a
timetable for measures DroDosed to improve capabilities: An assessment of the adequacy of the project
financial management systems was carried out by the IDA team in September 2002. The scope of the
work has been set out in the "Assessment of Financial Management Arrangement in World Bank-
financed Projects-Guidelines to Staf' issued by the Financial Management Sector Board dated June 30*
2001. The objective of the review is to assess the suitability of the existing project financial management
system as requiredby the Bank under OP/BP 10.02 with a view to implementingthe proposed project. In
Annex 5, the financial management risks have been addressed using the recent Vietnam Country
Financial Accountability Assessment and also have been analyzed at levels relevant to the project
covering risks as well as mitigating factors. The results of the assessment and a corresponding remedial
actions to address weaknesses have been agreed with the agencies and are included in the Action Plan
(see Annex 5). The review has concluded that with the fulfillment of the above Action Plan, this project
will meet minimumBank's financial management requirements. The Project will be producing Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Interms of disbursement technique, traditional disbursement technique will
be used.

Status of the borrower and the proiect implementing entities' compliance with audit covenants in existing
Bank-financed Droiects: There are no critical issues arising from audits of ongoing IDA-supported
projects under EVNMoI.         To date, there are no overdue audit reports relating to projects under
EVNMoI.

Agreement with the borrower on standard and format for audited financial statements and the timetable
for their submission: Project accounts will be kept in EVN and M o I for all project related expenditures
usingaccounting principle and practices acceptable to the Bank. Project accounts will be audited on an
annual basis in accordance with international standards on auditing and in compliance with the
independent auditing regulations of Vietnam. The auditor's report will be made available to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The audit will include a separate opinion on the
statements of expenditures other than the Special Accounts and Project Accounts. A management letter
addressing internal control weaknesses of implementing agencies will also be provided by the auditor
together with the audit report.

D. ProjectRationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection:
The Project has been developed during implementation of the Phase 1 project as well as through four
stakeholder workshops. For the second phase of EVN's DSM program, the approach proposed i s fully
consistent with the original DSM Assessment and the design has incorporated implementation experience

                                                    - 13 -

over the last two years as well as feedback from a stakeholder workshop implementedinSeptember 2001.
The project considered additional efforts to support the codes and standards work initiated under the Sida-
supported first phase. However, given the very low demand for EEequipment at present, combined with
the limited government capacity to test and enforce national standards, it was determined that an initial
focus on creating greater market demand for EE equipment would be a more appropriate priority at this
stage. As the program and markets develop further, the appropriateness for national standards and codes
would improve as well as the prospects for successful introduction and implementation. (UNDP has
expressedits interest infurthering this work and the Bank i s actively supporting them.)

For the pilot commercial EE program, the strategic approach has been developed in consultation with
government agencies, other activities initiated to date in Vietnam, and through three workshops in April
and September 2002 involving potential program agents, government agencies, commercial end-users,
financial companies and equipment suppliers. It was originally proposed that the Project include an EE
financing program, either through a dedicated credit line or possible guarantee facility, to support
commercial transactions. However, ongoing consultation with stakeholders and relevant agencies clearly
indicated that there is, at present, a lack of commercial lending culture in Vietnam, weak banking sector
and very limited and restrictive term lending. Most of the potential program agents and end-users noted
that project financing inVietnam i s more often mobilized through internal end-user funds, supplier credit,
foreign partners, and government budgets (for SOEs), thus, any dedicated financing facility would not be
appropriate under the current climate. Furthermore, there was a concern that the creation of a financing
facility may prematurely and unduly distort traditional financing methods. Thus, the design was revised
to focus on subproject grants as a means of stimulating investments rather than providing project
financing directly. As the banking sector undergoes further reforms and more term lending becomes
available, the design and development of appropriate financial instruments and programs could be
undertaken in future phases of the program. The project also considered providing large support to a few
new or existing entities to establish commercial ESCO businesses, such as utilities, provincial energy
conservation centers or research institutes. However, given the relatively small market for EEinVietnam
today, the fact that there were a number of small firms already developing businesses in this area and no
simple method to select the players, it was determined that such a strategy would create unfair
competition and possibly even drive out the smaller players from the market.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                     Latest Supervision
            Sector Issue                           Project                              (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                (Bank-financec projlectsonly)
                                                                               Implementation DeveloDment
         Bank-financed:                                                          Progress(IP) 3bjectivk (DO
                                China IBRD/GEFEnergy ConservationProject               S               S
 Energy efficiency              China GEF SecondEnergy Conservation                    S               S
                                Project
 Utility energy efficiency      Poland IBRD/GEF Krakow Energy Efficiency               S               S
                                Project
 Energy efficiency              Romania GEFEnergy EfficiencyProject                    S               S
 Utility DSMand energy          Sri Lanka IDNGEFEnergy Services Delivery             HS                H S
 efficiency                     Project
 Utility DSM                    Thailand Promotion of Electricity Energy               S               S
                                Efficiency Project
 Other development agencies:
 UNDP-GEF                       Vietnam EnergyEfficient Public Lighting
 UNDP-GEF                       Vietnam Energy Conservation inSMEs
IPDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfactory), HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)

                                                    - 14-

3. Lessons learnedandreflected inthe projectdesign:
For EVN's DSM program, BanWGEFexperience has shown the need for proper incentives for utilities to
undertake DSM, thus EVN's programs have been restricted to those that directly coincide with their
system peak. Previous operations have also shown the need for strong marketing efforts by DSM units,
role of manufacturer agreements and linkages to parallel commercial financing programs (Thailand
Promotion of Electricity Energy ESJiciency and Jamaica DSM Project ICRs), the need to develop
sustainable DSM institutional arrangementsgiven ongoing restructuring plans (DSM in Thailand: A Case
Study, ESMAP Technical Paper No. 8 and Operating Utility DSM Programs in a Restructuring
Electricity Sector, ESMAP Workshop Proceedings), the need to include distribution utilities in DSM
implementation efforts, and design of DSM programs in the local context - all which have been addressed
duringprojectpreparation.

For the pilot commercial EEprogram, operational experience has shown the need for market mechanisms
to develop sustainable programs and, inparticular, support for EEproject developers/service providers to
assist end-users to identify, design, package, mobilize financing, procure, install and commission EE
projects in order to develop sustainable, replicable, commercially-oriented programs (China Energy
ConservationMid-Term Review and Promoting Energy ESJiciency and Renewable Energy: GEF Climate
Change Projects and Impacts). The program design has also taken into account the need to develop
parallel marketing efforts to end-users, select a few demonstrations for wider dissemination, and keeping
a clear focus on transactions and investments (ESCO Practitioners Workshop, ESMAP Workshop
Proceedings).

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipientcommitment and ownership:
Commitment by the GOV i s very high. The development of the Decree on Energy Conservation and
Efficient Use, which was submitted in July 2002 and i s now under review, demonstrates the
Government's commitment to EE on a national basis. During project preparation, four stakeholder
workshops (one for EVNand three for MoI) were held and over 200 officials and representatives actively
participated in the discussions on existing barriers and potential strategies to overcome them, identified
key implementation issues that would need to be addressed, and offered their support for the Project
objectives. Inaddition, EVNand M o Ihave worked very closely with the Bank duringproject preparation
and have provided adequate staff and counterpart resourcesto support project preparation work.

5. Value added of Bankand Global support inthis project:
The proposed Project, along with the associated SEER Project, will provide GOV with key support
neededto help reduce energy demand and use energy more efficiently. The Bank team has worked very
closely with the EVNand M o Icounterparts to supervise Phase 1and develop this secondphaseeffort. Of
particular interest to the GOV i s the need for greater investment levels in EE that other programs and
donors have been unable to provide or generate so far. Furthermore, the Bank has been able to offer
considerable experience on D S M and EE programs elsewhere, particularly in Asia, which has greatly
helped the Vietnamese counterparts select elements from other programs suitable to their local context.
Finally, the Bank actively encouraged the use of a participatory approach to project design, which has
allowed the design to better reflect the needs of all stakeholders and will help ensure that the Project
impacts are fully realized.

E. SummaryProject Analysis(Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annexes 2 &4)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
NPV=US$million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
[X ] Summarize issuesbelow                   [ ] To bedefined                      [ ]None

Economic evaluation methodology:
[ 3 Cost benefit         [ ] Cost effectiveness       [ X 3 IncrementalCost          [ ] Other (specify)

                                                   - 15 -

The incremental cost analysis of the Project, along with the global environmental benefits, are presented
inAnnex 4.

2. Financial(see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 5)
[X ] Summarize issuesbelow                    [ ] Tobe defined                    [ ]None

A complete discussion of financial aspects of the project, including financial analyses of the DSM
programs, are outlined inAnnex 5B.

3. Technical:
[ X ] Summarize issuesbelow                   [ ] To be defined                   [ ]None

All technologies proposed for the project are fully commercial in other countries and their DSM and EE
performance well established. For EVN's component, each D S M program plan will include technical
equipment performance specifications to ensure that all goods (e.g., meters, receivers, lamps) meet
minimumperformance requirements. For MoI's program, the program design requires elements to help
ensure that the program does not suffer from early technical and performance failures. Efforts will be
made to focus early investments on simple and replicable technical retrofit categories to ensure that core
competencies can be built among project agents. Proper review of initial proposals by the AU, rigorous
training of program agents and customized assistanceprovided by M o Iwill also help ensure that technical
risks are minimized andor explicitly addressed.

4. Institutional:

4.1 Executingagencies: Inorder to ensure successfulproject implementation as well as its sustainability
and possible expansion under future IDNGEF-supported phases, the creation of appropriate project
management boards (PMBs) within EVN and M o I are essential. EVN has already established a DSM
Cell, under the Phase 1 project, and will gradually increase the size and capabilities of this Cell as
implementation of the second phase begins. The Bank will need to actively monitor staff enhancements
to the Cell and ensure that it i s fully capable of managing all aspects of the Project. In addition, there
remains a need to better and more formally clarify the roles of each PC for each DSM program and
appropriate PC DSM working groups, which were created during Phase 1, to be formalized. EVN's
appraised project implementation plan (PIP) was approved and adopted by EVN prior to Project
Negotiations. For MoI, a D S M PMB was established under Phase 1 to supervise and coordinate all
project activities. M o I and the Bank have agreed that this DSM PMB will be responsible for the
implementation of the pilot commercial EEprogram. MoI's appraised PIP includes detailed staffing and
implementation arrangements to ensure adequate skills and capability to fully manage the program. This
PIP was approved and adopted by M o Iprior to Project Negotiations. Inaddition, M o I has selected and
appointed an AU to be responsible for administrationof the subproject applications and grants.

4.2 Project management: As noted above, the project would be managed by EVN's DSM Cell and
MoI. Each would maintain responsibility for overall management, coordination and reporting of their
respective programs to the Bank.

4.3 Procurementissues: As executing agencies, EVNand M o Iwould be responsible for procurement of
related goods and consulting services for their respective components. Both agencies have implemented
previous Bank projects and are fully conversant inBank procurement guidelines andrequirements.

4.4 Financialmanagement issues: For EVN, it is expected that a portion of the GEFgrant may be used
to establish a revolving fund for energy-efficient lighting equipment to be provided to customers that
would then repay through their electricity bills or other mechanisms. EVN has agreed to develop a
detailed programplan for its CFL, program, which would provide distribution mechanisms for the lamps,

                                                    - 16-

institutional arrangements, customerhousehold screening criteria for target rural areas, use of proposed
revolving funds, financial management of the GEF funds and repayments, and potential exit strategies for
the GEF balances at the end of the project. EVNagreed to submit this detailed programplan to the Bank
for review and approval as a condition of Project Effectiveness. For the M o I component, the AU
management of the subproject grants would require appropriate financial management procedures
safeguards as well as an assessment of the AU systems. M o I has selected a qualified commercial bank to
serve as the AU and an assessment of the AU's financial systems has been conducted by the Bank. M o I
will also prepare a Program Operation Manual, which would layout detailed procedures for applications
to the AU, criteria for approvals, flows of funds, ex-post reviews, financial management procedures,
procurement, reporting, etc. An outline of the Manual was finalized and agreed duringProject Appraisal
and a complete draft will need to be submitted to and approved by the Bank as a condition of Project
Effectiveness.

Duringproject preparation, a financial management assessment was conducted by the Bank team. This
assessment concludedthat the concerned agencies have the basic framework to handle the accounting and
disbursement aspects of the project. However, potential areas of weaknesses still exist. For EVN's CFL
program, risks may include: (i)   households failure to make lamp repayments for proposed revolving
funds; (ii)PCs or other agencies fail keep track of installed lamp repayments; or (iii) or other
                                                                                             PCs
agencies use fund reflows for unapproved items. These issues will be fully addressed in the detailed
programplan being preparedby EVN. For the M o Icomponent, it i s critical for M o Ito develop sufficient
monitoring mechanisms for the AU, since M o I will have to rely fully on the AU in receiving, reviewing
applications and approving sub-grants. Thus detailed Terms of Reference were prepared for the AU,
banks were pre-qualified, and a workshop was held inSeptember 2002 for interested banks to discuss the
program and AU responsibilities. An Action Plan will be prepared and implemented (see Annex 5) to
address these issues and ensure that capacity is adequate to ensure proper financial management of the
AU.

5. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: C (Not required)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issuesand their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.

Since this project will only involve the installation of meters, DLC receivers and retrofit of existing
equipment (e.g., lighting, motors and pumps, air conditioners and chillers, capacitors, etc.) and no new
construction or greenfield development, no adverse environmental impacts are expected. This project
will result in major positive impacts on the environment, interms of improved EE, reduced air pollution,
and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The greenhouse gas and other pollutant emissions as well as
reductions in energy use will be quantified for each project activity. Since the Project would support a
number of subprojects that have yet to be identified, M o Iwill prepare an OperationManual, which would
include a basic environmental screening section, to further ensure that there would not be any negative
environmental impacts from supported subprojects. An outline of this Manual was developed by M o Iand
approved by the Bank at Project Appraisal.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

No social hardships are anticipated as aresult of the project.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

Project design has included consultations with a wide range of stakeholders, including government
officials, EVN and its PCs, research institutes, end-users, commercial service providers, equipment

                                                    - 17 -
manufacturers/distributors, financial institutions, nongovernmental organizations and other donors.
Major awareness campaigns and marketing efforts supported under the Project will target the entire
country and benefit all sectors and end-users. Access to the training activities, technical informatiodcase
studies and incentive grants will be open to all interested parties inthe targeted sectors and business areas.
And, the Project will continue to recruit additional program agents, end-users, and equipment
manufacturers/ distributors as implementationproceeds.

7. SafeguardPolicies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
                                  Policy                                         Applicability
       EnvironmentalAssessment (OP4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01)                                No
       NaturalHabitats(OP4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04)                                         No
       Forestry (OP4.36, GP4.36)                                                       No
       PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                         No
       CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03)                                                    No
       IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                      No
       Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                            No
       Safety of Dams(OP4.37, BP4.37)                                                  No
       ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)                          No
       ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)"                               No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensurecompliance with applicable safeguard policies.

F. SustainabilityandRisks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability was a key consideration in the decision to develop the programmatic approach adopted
while designing this phased, 12-year program. Initiatives developed under the first phase as well as those
under this Project will be actively supported and further expanded in subsequent phases with IDNGEF
support. The concept i s to provide a longer-term vision for development assistance, a framework for
scale-up of mechanisms and business models tested in earlier operations, and provisions for developing
timely intervention mechanisms as programs, markets and reforms develop.

In addition, the program itself would seek market-based, commercial funding for DSM and EE
investments. The load management programs under EVN are cost-effective and will help demonstrate to
EVNand GOV the potential commercial merits and impacts for further DSM measures to help meet the
rapidly growing electricity demand within the country.         EVN's market transformation activities are
designed to achieve large, sustained impacts on the CFL and FTL lighting markets and the initial grant
funds would be phased out over the project period. For the pilot commercial EEprogram, the focus on
improving program agent capability will lead to sustained market activity that will eventually be entirely
financed by the private sector. Early successes with participating agents in the program would in turn
lead to increased business for them and deepen the level of market activity and momentum. Support may
be required in the future to facilitate commercial financing of EE projects, but these future operations
would develop local commercial lending and, thus, eventually replace the need for any further BanWGEF
support inthis market. Further reforms on electricity tariffs, banking lending and SOE equitization would
allow these initiatives to develop further, with less reliance on grant support.

2. ReplicationPlan

This Project would buildupon efforts under the first phase and expand measures deemed appropriate for
Vietnam. The second phase would also be closely supervised and lessons learned incorporated into
subsequent phases. Of particular interest i s the ability for different business and transaction models to
work within the Vietnamese context and be supported by existing legal, financial and commercial
frameworks.

                                                      - 1 8 -

The programmatic approach will allow activities to be tested, refined and introduced on a national scale.
There i s also significant potential for the design of this programto be of interest to other relatively smaller
countries inthe region (e.g., Lao PDR, Cambodia) and globally, that are beginning to consider launching
DSM andor EE initiatives to curb demand growth, promote market-based environmentally sustainable
development, etc. In particular, the use of simple load management programs to achieve significant,
measurable and cost-effective reductions in peak loads and supporting the development of an emerging
EEservice market, where the banking sector is not yet ready to providelarge-scale financing, could be of
considerable interest to other countries.

3. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column of Annex 1):




RiskRating-H(HighRisk), S (SubstantialRisk),M(Modest Risk), N(NegligibleRisk)

Key risks associated with the project include: (i)lack of commitment by EVN to implement the DSM
                                                     a
programs; (ii) limited interest inproject agents to participate in the program; and (iii) for project
                                                                                           inability
agents and their customers to mobilize the necessary financing. Each i s elaborated below:
   o Commitment to DSM by EVN. While EVNhas expressed its commitment to implement the DSM
        programs under the project, it will be necessary for EVNto continue to appoint highquality and
        capable staff to the D S M Cell and its PCs, actively manage various institutional arrangementsand

                                                    - 1 9 -

        program activities, and fully incorporate DSMsavings into the power planning process inorder to
        realize the full benefits from the program. Furthermore, as power sector reforms deepen, it will
        be necessary for EVN to advocate continuation of its DSM activities in order for them to be
        sustained inthe future. Close supervision of the project activities, careful programevaluation and
        continuedpolicy dialogue will help address, but not completely eliminate, these risks.
    o Project Agent Participation. While three workshops were held during project preparation and
        about 40 project agents identified, significantly more work i s required in the project's early
        months to market the programand enable potential agents to begin developing their businessesin
        EEproject development. The design of the programwill provide essential training and technical
        assistance, but each agent must be committed to developing their businesses, recruiting customers
        and actively developing highquality and financially viable investment proposals. Careful design
        of the training programs, proactive marketing and communications by MoI, and timely technical
        assistance will help ensure sufficient programparticipation and a solidpipeline of proposals.
    o Access to Project Financing. Since the project design has not included financing directly, the
        ability for the project agents and/or customers to access suitable financing for EEprojects will be
        critical. Duringthe first year of project implementation, substantial support will be provided by
        the AU and M o Ito help get the initial pipeline of projects prepared and financed, which will then
        help raise the credibility and viability of the program and EE projects to new agents, customers
        and financial service providers. These initial proposals, combined with case studies, will also be
        used to market the program and demonstrate the financial viability of such investments to new
        potentialplayers inthe market, including commercial banks, leasing companies, etc. Ifthe initial
        pipeline i s slow to develop and initial transactions not completed in a timely manner, it will
        significantly reduce the credibility of the program, pace of market development and access to
        financing. On the other hand, if the programgenerates significant interest, then the availability of
        financing and sufficient creditworthy customers could serve as the limiting factor for the
        program's deal flow.

4. Possible ControversialAspects:
None.

G. MainConditions
1. Conditions for ProjectEffectiveness
    a. Execution of a Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the Recipient and EVN.
    b. Executionof aProject Administration Agreement onbehalf of MoIandthe selectedAU.
    c. Adoption of MoI's Operations Manual, acceptable to the Bank, for the pilot commercial EE
        program.
    d. Adoption of a detailed CFLprogramplan, acceptableto the Bank, by EVN.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]

Duringfinalization of the GEF Trust FundGrant Agreement, agreement was reached with the Recipient
on the following issues:
         o The Recipient will have all relevant records and accounts, including the Project's two
             Special Accounts, audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
             furnishthese to the Banknot later than six months after the end of eachfiscal year, furnishto
             the Bank other relatedinformation requested by the Bank and retain relevant records.
         o The Recipient will furnishto the Bank a financial monitoring report, inform and substance
             satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
             cumulatively and for the project period covered by the report, showing separately funds

                                                    - 20 -

            provided under the Grant and explaining variances between the actual and planned uses of
             such funds. The first report will be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end
            of the first calendar quarter after Project Effectiveness and every quarter thereafter.
        o The Bank will have rights of suspension (pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General
            Conditions), if (a) the Project Administration Agreement or any Participation Agreement or
            any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
            by the Recipient, the ParticipatingFinancial Institution (AU), or a Participating Organization
            (project agent) without the prior concurrence of the Bank, which materially and adversely
            affects the ability of the Participating Financial Institution or Participating Organization to
            perform its obligations under the said Agreements and the GEF Grant Agreement, (b) the
            EVN Charter is amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
            materially and adversely the ability of EVNto perform its obligations under the GEF Grant
            Agreement; and (c) the Charter of the Participating Financial Institution i s amended,
            suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
            operations or financial conditions of the Participating Financial Institution or its ability to
            carry out the Project or perform its obligations under the Project Administration or GEF
            Grant Agreements.
Concerning the EVNDSMProgram Component, the Recipient will:
        o Cause EVN to maintain a DSM Board, under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank,
            chaired by a qualified and experienced officer and suitable staff in sufficient numbers and
            adequateresources, to carry out implementationof this component.
        o Not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of EVN's Project Implementation Plan or CFL
            ProgramPlan without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
        o Cause EVN to deposit the proceeds of the sales of CFLs into an account managed and
            maintained by EVN in accordance with the CFL Program Plan. The Recipient may, in
            consultation with the Bank, permit EVN to keep the proceeds of the sale of CFLs after the
            completion of the Project for the purposes of continuing its DSM and EEprograms.
Concerningthe M o IPilot Commercial EEProgramComponent, the Recipient will, through MoI:
        o Maintain the M o I DSM Project Management Board, headed by a qualified and experienced
            officer, with such functions, responsibilities and funds satisfactory to the Bank, and with
            competent staff inadequatenumbers, to carry out implementation of this component.
        o Not amend, waive or abrogate the provisions of MoI's Project Implementation Plan or
            Project Administration Agreement without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
        o Prepare under Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank on or
            about June 30, 2005 a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
            activities performed on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
            period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure
            the efficiency carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
            during the period following such date. The Recipient should review with the Bank this
            report referred to above by July 31, 2005 and take all measures required to ensure the
            efficient completion of the Project based on the conclusions and recommendations of these
            reports and the Bank's views on the matter.
Concerning the sub-grants and sub-projects under MoI's Pilot Commercial EE Program Component, the
Recipient will, through MoI:
        o   Cause the selected Participating Financial Institution to (i)   appoint a Project manager and
            other qualified staff insufficient numbers and with experience and qualifications satisfactory
            to the Bank to perform the duties under the Project Administration Agreement and the GEF

                                               - 21 -
         Grant Agreement; (ii)   review energy audits and sub-project proposals and conduct technical
         assessments according to the requirements and criteria set forth in the Operations Manual;
         (iii)certify thattheenergyauditsandsub-projectproposalsarecompletedinaccordance
         with the requirements and criteria set forth in the Operations Manual; and (iv) maintain
         adequaterecords and accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
         operations, energy savings, resources and expenditures in respect of the energy audits, sub-
         projects and sub-grants.
     o Cause sub-grants to be provided to Participating Organizations in accordance with the
         Operations Manual and the following provisions: (a) the estimated cost of an energy audit
         shall not exceed US$8,OOO; (b) a sub-grant for an energy audit shall not exceed (i)100
         percent of the cost of an audit completed prior to July 1, 2005, (ii) percent of an energy
                                                                              75
         audit completed prior to July 1, 2006, and (iii)  50 percent of the cost of an energy audit
         completed on or after July 1, 2006; and (c) a sub-grant for a sub-project shall not exceed
         US$30,000 andshall not exceed(i) percentof the cost of a sub-project completedprior to
                                              20
         July 1, 2005; (ii) 10percentof the cost of a sub-projectcompletedprior to July 1,2006; and
         (iii)percentofthecostofasub-projectcompletedprioronorafterJuly1,2006.
             5
     o Cause the selectedParticipating Financial Institution to enter into a Participation Agreement
         with the Participating Organizations, which shall meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
         OperationsManual inform and substance satisfactory to the Bank as a condition for making
         sub-grants for energy audits and sub-projects. The terms and conditions of each agreement
         shall: (a) require that each participating organization (i)
                                                                   carries out energy audits and sub-
         projects with due diligence and efficiency and in accordancewith soundtechnical, financial,
         environmental, and managerial standards, and (ii)    maintains adequate records to reflect, in
         accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures
         relating to the energy audits and sub-projects; (b) require that the goods and services to be
         financed from the proceeds of the sub-grants shall be (i)procured in accordance with
         proceduresensuring efficiency and economy, and (ii)    usedexclusively inthe carrying out of
         the energy audit or sub-project; and (c) reserve for the Recipient the right to (i)inspect by
         itself or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods, works, sites and
         construction included inthe sub-projects, the operationsthereof and any relevant records and
         documents, (ii)  obtain all information as the Recipient or the Bank shall reasonablyrequest
         regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions of the Participating
         Organizations, and (iii)  suspend or terminate the right of the Participating Organization to
         use the proceeds of the sub-grant upon the failure by the Participating Organization to
         perform any of its obligations under the Participation Agreement.



H. Readinessfor Implementation
-    la) The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete andready for
-       the start of project implementation.
-
X    lb) Not applicable.
X    2) The procurement documentsfor the first year's activities are complete andready for the start
-       of project implementation.
X    3) The Project ImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfound to be realistic andof

-4)Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):
        satisfactory quality.

                                             -22-
I.CompliancewithBankPolicies
X_
-     1) This projectcomplies with allapplicableBankpolicies.
      2) The followingexceptionsto Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. The project
         complies with all other applicableBankpolicies.  .
                                                          f




                                 *   we&-
Nguyet AnhPham                     MohammadFarhandi                 Klaus Rohland
TeamLeader                         Sector Director                  CountryDirector

                                                                                                                                                              - 23 -
                                                                                                                                             Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                                                                                               VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project


          Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                                                Key Performance Indicators                  Monitoring & Evaluation                                                                                                            Critical Assumptions
      Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                                         Sector Indicators:                        Sector/ country reports:                                                                                                  (from Goal to BankMission)
    1. Reduceinfrastructure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAS and GEF Objectives to
   bottlenecks                                                                                                                  1 Quantified capacity (MW) anc                     MoIandEVNstatistics
                                                                                                                                  energy (GWh) savings                             Project progressreports                                                                                                BankMission: Promotion of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :nvironmentally sustainable
   2. Increasecompetitiveness                                                                                                  1  Operatingcost reductions                         Project surveys and
                                                                                                                                  through EEinvestments                          evaluationreports                                                                                                        levelopment

   3. Private sector                                                                                                           1  Increasedcommercial EE
   development                                                                                                                    serviceproviders and
                                                                                                                                  transactions
 4. Protect the environment                                                                                                    1  Quantified reductions in
                                                                                                                                  emissionsand localpollutants
                                                                                                                                  fromEE investments
I
.....
                         Global Objective:
 Reduction of greenhouse gas                                                                                                    Quantified COZ emission
 emissions                                                                                                                      reductions fromEEinvestments

          Development Objective:                                                                                                 Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                        Project reports:                                                                                         (from Objective to Goal)
 Achieve significant and                                                                                                       1  Peak load (MW) reduction       0               MoI, EVN, and AU project                                                                                                 Development and Global
 sustainablereductionsin                                                                                                       1  Energy (GWh) savings                           progress reports                                                                                                         Objectives to CAS
 energy consumption and peak                                                                                                   1  Sustainedincreasedsales of     0               Supervisionmissions                                                                                                         Stable macroeconomic
 power demand                                                                                                                     CFLs and T-8 FTLs              0               Surveysand DSMevaluation                                                                                                    conditions

                                                                                                                               1  Total commercial EEprojects                    reports                                                                                                                     Appropriate energypricing
                                                                                                                                  and investments                0               Project agent proposals                                                                                                     Ongoing SOE and banking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reforms
............................................................................................................................   1  Number of project agents       .................................................................................................................     ...................
 GEFOperational Program:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~




                                                                                                                               1  Increasedmarket shares for     0                  MoI, EVN, andAU project
 Sustainableremoval of                                                                                                            CFLs and T-8 FTLs                              progress reports
 commercial barriers to DSM                                                                                                    1  Development of further DSM     0                  Supervisionmissions
 andEEinvestments                                                                                                                 investmentplans by EVN         0                  Surveysand DSMevaluatioi
                                                                                                                               1  SustainedincreasesinEE                         reports
                                                                                                                                  investment levels by end-      0                  Project agent proposals

I                                                                                                                                 users, agents andbanks

                         Outputfrom each                                                                                               Output Indicators:                                             Project reports:                                                                                      (from Outputs to Objective)
                                      Component:
  1. EVN's DSMProgram
              a.                 TOU metering                                                                                1.   TOU meters installed                              EVNprogressreports                                                                                                       No major changes in
             b. DLC program                                                                                                  3.   DLC systems installedactive                       Supervisionmissions                                                                                                      customer consumption
             c.                  CFL promotion                                                                               :.   CFLs sold and installed                           SurveysandDSMevaluatioi                                                                                                  patters
             d. FTLprogram                                                                                                   1. T-8 FTLs marketing                               reports                                                                                                                  0  Customer willingness to
                                                                                                                                  campaignslaunched                                 Lighting manufacturer sales                                                                                              accept and adoptEE
                                                                                                                                el. Load researchmeters                           data                                                                                                                       measuresduring and beyond
                                                                                                                                installed andprofiles developed                                                                                                                                              project period
                                                                                                                                e2. Commercial DSMbusiness                                                                                                                                                0  Power quality supportsEE
                                                                                                                                opportunities assessedand                                                                                                                                                    equipment
                                                                                                                                appropriateplans developed                                                                                                                                                   Ability of lighting
                                                                                                                                e3. DSMplanning andpolicy
                                                                                                                                support developedinitiated                                                                                                                                                   manufacturersto increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             production of EEproductsat
                                                                                                                                e4. DSMpilot programs                                                                                                                                                        competitive prices
                                                                                                                                assessedand implemented
                                                                                                                                e5. Monitoring and verification                                                                                                                                              Proper energy pricing

                                                                                                                             plans developedimplemented                                                                                                                                                      betweenEVNandPCs

                                                        - 24 -

     Output fromeach              OutputIndicators:              Projectreports:           (fromOutputsto Objective)
        Component:
!. PilotCommercialEE
  Program                                                     MoIand AUproject            1 Ability for project agents to
  a. Training            1    Training programs developed     progress reports              operate successfulbusinesses
                         inddelivered                         Project agent proposals     1 Ability for agents to find
  b. Subprojectgrants     3.  Customers successfully                                        ways to share project
                         .ecruited, audits completedand       Supervisionmissions
                                                                                            performancerisks to
                         irojects implemented                 Surveys and evaluation
                                                              reports                       encouragecustomer
  c. Program marketing,  :1. Marketing materials                                            investments
  evaluation, and          jevelopedand delivered
                                                                                          1 Continuedeconomic
  administration         :2. End-userstrained and
                         :ducated onEE                                                      development of sectors and

                         :3. Case studies developedand                                      creditworthinessof large

                         iisseminated                                                       end-users

                         :4. Monitoring and evaluation
                         dans developedand
                           mplemented
                         5.Studies to scale-up program
                         nfuture phases launchedand
                           :ompleted

 ProjectComponents/Sub-        Inputs: (budgetfor each           Projectreports:               (fromComponentsto
        components:                   component)                                                     Outputs)
.. EVNDSMProgram           L .Total cost $8.2 million
  a. TOU metering             a. $2.3M (IDA)                  EVNprogressreports         1  SustainedEVN andPC
  b. DLC program              b. $0.7M (IDA)                  Supervision missions          management support and
  c. CFL promotion            c. $1.8M (IDNGEF)               Bank disbursementreports      proactivity inDSMprogram
  d. FTLprogram               d. $0.8M (GEF)                                             1  Ability of DSMCell to
  e. Supportingprograms       e. $2.6M (IDNGEFEVN)                                          develop and implement
                                                                                            successfulprograms
                                                                                         b  Ability and willingness for
                                                                                            end-usersto accept and
                                                                                            invest inEEmeasures
                                                                                        1   DSMincentives are not
                                                                                            misusedby EVNPC staff or
                                                                                            customers
                                                                                         b  Householdsmake lamp
                                                                                            paymentson time
                                                                                         b  Ability of lighting
                                                                                            manufacturersto increase
                                                                                            production of EEproducts at
                                                                                            competitive prices
!, MoIPilot CommercialEE 1. Total cost: $10.3 million
'rogram                  GEF: $3.25M, MoI: $0.44M,            MoIand AU progress         b  MoIability to successfully
                                        $6.6M)                reports                       manage program
  a. Training            ..ommercial:
                              $1.2M (GEFMoI)                  Supervision missions       v  AU operateseffectively
  b. Subprojectgrants      1. $7.8M (GEFkommercial)           Bank disbursementreports      Ability for project agents to
  c. Programmarketing,     .  $1.3M (GEFMoI)                                                recruit interestedand
    evaluationand                                                                           creditworthy customers
    administration                                                                       b  Ability of project agents to
                                                                                            findalternative options for
                                                                                             financing projects
                                                                                         b   Ability of equipment
                                                                                             suppliers to provide high
                                                                                             quality EEequipment

                                          - 25 -

Key Project Performance Indicators


  1. Peak load reduction of 70 MW and energy savings of 153 GWh from EVN's demand-
      side management (DSM) programs by the Mid-Term Review (June 2005) and 120 Mw
      and496 GWhby the end of the Project.

  2. Four full-scale and two pilot DSM programs designed and launched by EVN by
      December 2004 andevaluated by December 2006.

  3. One million compact fluorescent lamps sold; six million additional T-8 fluorescent tube
      lamps sold; andDSMbusinessopportunities study completedunder EVN's programs.

  4. Energy savings of 40 GWh from MoI's pilot commercial energy efficiency program by
      the Mid-TermReview and 302 GWhby the endof the Project.

  5. Total commercial investment of more than US$2.44 million from MoI's commercial
      energy efficiency program by the Mid-Term Review and $7.32 million by the end of the
      Project.

  6. At least 5-10 active commercial energy service providers; 210 transactions completed;
      comprehensive training program developed and implemented; marketing and case study
      materials developed and disseminated under MoI's pilot commercial energy efficiency
      program.

  7. Carbon dioxide emission reductions of 0.23 million tons from EVNandM o Iprograms by
      the Mid-TermReview and0.95 million tons bv the endof the Proiect.

                                                   - 26 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
              VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project


IDMGEF will support a phased, 12-year (1998-2010) programmatic approach to demand-side
management (DSM) and energy efficiency (EE) activities inVietnam. This program has begun with the
Phase 1 DSM project and would continue to build upon initial program results and efforts in 2-3
additional phasedoperations. The rationale i s to provide a longer-termvision for development assistance,
establish a framework for scale-up of mechanisms and business models tested in earlier operations, and
develop timely intervention mechanisms as programs, markets and reforms develop (see Figure A2-1, p.
34). The second phase of the program would consist of two components: (i) second phase DSM
                                                                                    a
component under EVN; and (ii)    implementationof a pilot commercialEEprogram by MoI. For the EVN
component, a total investment of US$8.22 million would be sought to support the continuation of EVN's
DSM activities initiated under the IDNSida project and, specifically, implement four large DSM
programs and supporting activities to achieve major reductions inpeak load, improve system load factors,
transform select lightingmarkets, and assist customers with ongoing tariff reforms. US$5.20 million has
already been approved under the IDA SEER Project, US$0.77 million would be made available from
EVN's internalfunds, andUS$2.25 millionfrom the GEFgrant funds would be used. A pilot commercial
EE component, also supported under the associated GEF project, would require an estimated $10.34
million intotal project financing ($3.25 million GEF, $6.65 million private sector, $0.44 millionMoI) and
would be managed by MoI. The full second phase DSM/EE program will consist of the following
elements:

Project Component 1 D S MProgram(Second Phase) Under EVN(US$8.22 million)
                        -
The main focus of this component would be to build upon Phase IDSM results and expand the use of
DSM to help EVN and its PCs better manage loads and load curves and improve system load factors.
DSM i s also viewed by EVN as a means to help mitigate the effects of ongoing power tariff reforms,
particularly inthe rural areas. Based on the studies and assessments conducted under Phase 1, the second
phase has been designed to achieve over 120 MW in system peak reduction and electricity savings of
about 500 GWh through the implementation of several DSM measures (impact estimates include both the
GEF and associated IDA-financed components.).           The program would be managed by EVN and
implementedwith support from its PCs. (Subsequent phases, which would seek to develop a large-scale
portfolio of DSM measures by EVNand its PCs and may include support to create an ESCO unit under
EVN, could be included in future IDNGEFenergy operations.) EVN's Phase 2 program would include
four major programs and some supporting activities as noted below. (See Table A2-1 for a budget
breakdown of the various DSMprograms.)

la. Expanded Time-of-Use Metering (US$2.35 million). EVN introduced a time-of-use (TOU) tariff
in 1998 and has supported this with TOU metering since then. The TOU tariff is applicable for large
customers with loads over 100 kVA or consumption in excess of 10,000 kWh per month. By the end of
2001, EVN and its PCs had installed about 4,300 TOU meters in customer premises. Many of the
customers have responded to the new tariff schedule by shiftingloads from the peak hours to off-peak or
low load periods. Despite the beneficial load shifting effects of these efforts, EVNhas been reluctant to
expand these efforts due to competing uses for their limited investment capital and some customer
resistance to TOU metering. For example, a number of customers have responded by installing stand-by
generation units and disconnecting from the grid during peak times to avoid peak pricing. Others have
done so in order to ensure consistent and reliable power supply duringpeak periods. (However, after the
TOU codbenefits were analyzed under Phase 1and presented to EVN management during Project Pre-
Appraisal, EVN became convinced of the system benefits and, in 2002, installed an additional 19,000
TOU meters usinginternal funds, saving an estimated 185-235 MW.

                                                     - 27 -

Under this program, EVN would continue its efforts to encourage large customers to shift their energy
consumption to off-peak hours using TOU metering. These meters would be deployed in about 4,000
new customer premises (5,600 meters in total) by 2005 for production, commercial, service and
agricultural (irrigation) customers with transformer capacity over 100 kVA, as the existing tariff
regulations allow, to help rationalize electricity consumption during the peak periods. A key element of
the program would be the marketing and information campaigns that would accompany the TOU meter
installations, so customers could understand the TOU tariff and meter and receive information on load
shiftingand EEoptions they could consider to avoid an increase intheir overall electricity bill (and help
better ensure the peak load reduction benefits to EVN). The program would also include a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation component to identify the benefits of TOU tariffs, define
customer segments that provide the greatest load shifting benefits, and identify options for future
modifications of the TOU tariffs and programs to improve their impacts. The associatedIDA credit under
the SEER Project would allow EVN and its PCs to procure and install additional meters in remaining
customers that meet the above criteria as well as support program administration, marketing and
information, and monitoring. The total estimated peak load reduction from this program i s about 70 MW
andwould save anestimated $46 million innew capacity investments byEVNand its PCs.

    Table A2-1. Project BudgetBreakdown for EVI 's Phase 2 DSMProgram(all c its inUSD)
             Sub-component              I    Totalcost        GEF          Associated IDA         EVN
 A. TOU Metering
    Equipment and-installation                2,050,000                        1,950,000         100,000
    Marketingand promotion                      150,000                          139,500           10,500
    Administration & logistics                   30,000                          27,900             2,100
    Technical assistance                        120,000                          111,600            8,400
 Sub-total                                    2,350,000                        2,229,000         121,000
 B. Pilot DLC
    Equipment and installation                  510,000                         506,500             3,500
    Marketingandpromotion                        60,000                          55,800             4,200
    Customer incentives                         120,000                                 0         120,000
    Administration & logistics                   10,000                            9,300              700
    Technical assistance                         20,000                           18,600            1,400
  Sub-total                                     720,000                         590,200          129,800

    Equipment and installation                1,050,000       300,000            750,000                0
    Marketingandpromotion                       100,000       93,000                    0           7,000
    Learning grant                              500,000      500,000                    0               0
    Technical assistance                        140,000             0            130,200            9,800
  Sub-total                                   1,790,000      893,000             880,200           16,800
  D. FTLProgram
    Marketingand promotion                      650,000       604,500                              45,500
    FTLtesting                                   50,000       46,500                                3,500
    Ballast marketing                            50,000       46,500                                3,500
    Administration & logistics                   30,000        27,900                               2,100
  Sub-total                                     780,000       725,400                              54,600
  E. Supporting Programs
    Expandedload research                       900,000             0            884,250           15,750
    DSMbusinessopportunities                    250,000       232,500                   0          17,500
    DSMplanning, policy and pilots              430,000             0            382,500           47,500
    Programmonitoringand evaluation             345,000       320,850                   0          24,150
    Staff, facilities andequipment              655,000        78,250            233,850          342,900
  Sub-total                                   2,580,000      631,600           I,500,600         447,800
  TOTAL                                       8,220,000     2,250,000          5,200,000         770,000

          1. Project budgetsdo not include theestimatedUS$2.0 million from end-users for the CFL program.
          2. All costs include contingencies.

                                                      - 28 -


lb. Pilot Direct Load Control Program(US$0.72 million). Under this program, EVN, incollaboration
with PC HCMC and PC Hanoi, would introduce a pilot direct load control (DLC) program usingripple
control systems to curtail demand of about 2,000 customer end-use loads (e.g., air conditioning,
refrigeration, water heating, etc.). The DLC technology would allow EVN to shut-off selected end-use
equipment for up to a pre-specified number of hours each year during system shortages and seasonal
peaks. The equipment (central stations, receivers, communication systems) would be purchased with the
associated IDA credit and EVN would use its counterpart funds to pay for program administration and
incentives to the programparticipants.

The DLC program would be targeted to medium to large commercial customers such as hotels, offices,
services, administrative buildings, food stores, etc. Receivers would be installed on end-use equipment
and controlled from central stations at the PC centers. A 25 percent control strategy would be used,
whereby controlled end-uses would be switched off for 15 minutes each hour on a rotating basis. The
targeted end-uses will be selected so that there i s little or no loss incomfort, convenience, or productivity
due to the appliance load control. The load control will be exercised only when the power system is
experiencing a significant supply/demand imbalance, and the customers will be guaranteed that the
control will be exercised for a maximum of 60 times in a year. There would be negligible energy savings
or revenue lossesfrom the program, since the equipment targeted typically operates with a duty cycle less
than 1.0 and, thus, would recuperate any energy deficit by operating at full capacity following a shut-off
period. The estimated peak loadreductionfrom the DLC programi s about 3 MW.

IC. Promotion(US$1.79 million). Currently,mostelectrifiedurbanandruralhouseholdsuse60-
     CFL
100 W incandescent light bulbs. The promotion of compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs), which typically
use 12-18 W and provide comparable lumen output to incandescent bulbs, could significantly reduce
lighting loads, which coincide heavily with EVN's system peaks, and reduce electricity costs for end-
users. However, incandescent bulbs typically cost $0.20-0.40 versus $2.00-3.00 for CFLs. Under this
program, EVN would promote sales of 1million CFLs to Vietnamese households in areas of highloads
and network congestion by procuring CFLs in bulk packages and distributing them through their PC
branch offices, and possibly through lighting retailers and/or community-based NGOs. Over the three-
year programperiod, EVN would use discounts, combined with marketing efforts, to promote the use of
the more efficient lamps and these discounts would decline over the life of the program(about $1.50/lamp
for the first 200,000 CFLs, $l.OO/lamp for the next 300,000, and $0.60/lamp for the remaining 500,000
CFLs). (Implementation of several pilot CFL programs under Phase 1 are now being implemented an
evaluated and results and lessons learned would be reflectedinthe detailed design of this program.)

Most of the bulk procurement and discounted sales of the CFLs would be financed with the associated
IDA credit, given the major load reduction benefit potential for EVN. However, GEF grant support is
being sought for the first year of the program (or first 200,000 CFLs sold) in order to test the overall
programdesign, delivery mechanisms, use of subsidies, etc. to refine the design in the latter years. It also
proposed that a GEF DSM Learning Grant be provided to EVN which would be used to test alternative
delivery mechanisms for the CFLs, which may include one or more of the following options: (i)        test and
develop a revolving fund mechanism with one or more PCs to offer interest-free financing for CFLs to
rural customers, who would repay the cost of the lamps over a 6-12 month period through their electricity
bills; (ii) and develop a revolving fund mechanism with the Vietnam Women's Union (VWU),
           test
provincial authorities or other suitable organizations to provide CFLs for sales inrural areas and recover
the funds, either on a cash or credit basis; and/or (iii) test and develop load reduction performance-based
contracts with program subcontractors (e.g., PCs, lighting distributor/retailers, NGOs, companies) to
market and sell CFLs. EVN will develop and submit a detailed program implementation plan, which
would include CFL distribution mechanisms, institutional arrangements, screening criteria for target rural
areas, use of proposed revolving funds, financial management of the GEF funds and repayments, and
potential exit strategies for the GEF balances at the end of the project, to the Bank for review as a
condition of Project Effectiveness. This program would provide energy savings of 39 GWh and peak

                                                    - 29 -

load reduction of over 33 MW during the project period. More importantly, the program i s designed to
help achieve a sustained expansion of the residential CFL market by demonstrating the benefits of the
CFLs and achieving economies-of-scale to help reduce the prevailing market costs of the CFLs by an
estimated 15-25 percent.

Id. FTLMarketTransformation (US$0.78 million). Under the Project, EVNwould initiate aprogram
to promote the use of high-efficiency 18/36 W T-8 FTLs, which have about the same lumen output and
retail price as conventional 20/40 W T-10 lamps but consume about 10 percent less electricity, in all
sectors. The two major local manufacturers of FTLs inVietnam today, DIMEXCO and RALACO, now
possess the capability to produce T-8 lamps and could substantially increase their production. However,
given the very low penetration of lamps today (see Annex 11 for a description of the market), these
manufacturers are unwilling to alter their production volumes without a significant change in the overall
market demand. Thus EVNproposes to work with the manufacturers to increase the production of T-8s
and phase out the traditional FI'L, develop a cooperative advertising and promotion program with the
manufacturers, and launch an information and promotion campaign to increase customer awareness and
acceptance of the T-8s and low-loss electronic ballasts. GEF funds would provide for the incremental
cost of the marketing efforts to both the manufacturers and EVN and support testing and project
management support. Any revolving fund schemes developed under the CFL program would also be
used to offer interest-free end-user financing for efficient ballasts. (A pilot FTLmarketing effort was also
launched under Phase 1and will be evaluated inthe coming months.)

The first year of the proposed program would be focused on working with the manufacturers to get a
commitment to produce an increased number of T-8 FTLs. The cooperative information, advertising and
promotion campaign will be developed inthe first year, and launched at the beginning of the second year.
As noted above, the program would also include the promotion of efficient ballasts with the T-8s. The
program i s expected to increase the installation of T-8s by 3 million units (plus 50,000 efficient ballasts)
per year, leading to energy savings of 25 GWh and peak load reduction of over 14 MW during the
program period. As with the CFL program, the more important benefit will be the sustained increase in
production and sales of the T-8 lamps even after the programhas ended.

le. Supporting Programs and Technical Assistance (US$2.58 million). In addition to the four DSM
programs noted above, EVN will initiate complementary activities to support these efforts.              Such
activities will include load research (both facility and end-use levels) to determine customer class and
end-use profiles and energy savings potentialhmpacts, DSM program planning and policy support,
development and implementation of 1-2 new pilot DSM programs, DSM business opportunities studies
(e.g., fee-for-service audits and consultations, utility-based ESCO, capacitor and EE equipment leasing,
load management system operations, etc.), DSM program monitoring and evaluation, and support to the
DSM Center (equipment, staffing, institutional development).

GEF funds would support measures necessary to fully realize the impacts of the DSM efforts noted
above, including the assessments and development of commercial DSM business opportunities and DSM
program monitoring and evaluation. The assessment of DSM business opportunities will consist of
technical assistance for defining capabilities and interest within various EVNgroups in establishing new
commercial business lines and for conducting appropriate feasibility studies and developing business
plans that would take advantage of EVN's resources to offer DSM-related services to customers. As the
power sector in Vietnam restructures, EVN will be looking to spin-off potential profit business centers
which may include the DSM Cell or other entities (e.g., Institute of Energy, PECCs 1-4) that could be
interested inproviding such services.

The program monitoring and evaluation component would provide technical assistance for developing an
overall methodology for program evaluation, implementing a program monitoring and tracking system,
development of a database for D S M measures and programs, conduct program process and impact
evaluations, training of EVN staff to develop and implement evaluation plans for all the programs,

                                                    - 30 -

particularly the EE activities which require a higher level of evaluation complexity, and develop a
monitoring plan for the overall DSMprogram indicating key milestones for the institutionaldevelopment
of the DSM Cell and other EVNdepartments for this and future phases. Detailed programand evaluation
plans are now being developed by the DSMCell and are expected to include: (i)         assessment of baseline
penetration rates for CFLs and T-8 FTLs through customer surveys, manufacturer and retailer sales data,
customer billing data, and complementary load research; (ii)        determination of actual load reduction
effects from specific end-uses through end-use metering; (iii)      refinement of impact assumptions (e.g.,
operating times, coincidence factors, free rider rates, etc.) through surveys (both program participants and
non-participants) and supplemental load research; and (iv) establishment of actual program impacts
through engineering estimates, EVN system and load forecast analyses, sample measurementsof pre- and
post-program consumption patterns for EVN's TOU and DLCprogramparticipants; and (v) evaluation of
program strategies and market transformation efforts through surveys and select interviews (e.g., EVN
and PC staff, manufacturers and distributors, focus groups).

Project Component 2 Pilot Commercial Energy Efficiency Program(US$10.34 million)
                         -
In addition to EVN's DSM activities, a pilot commercial EE program is proposed to test and develop
appropriate business models and mechanisms to catalyze a small and sustainable EE service market
resulting in increased EE investments in Vietnam. This will be achieved by training and supporting a
small group of service providers ("project agents") who can develop commercial business services to
assist customers in all phases of EE project identification, development, financing and implementation.
These project agents would include energy auditing and engineering firms, equipment leasing companies,
equipment suppliers, installation and construction contractors, and ESCOs. To date, over 40 candidate
firms have been identified and confirmed interest in participating in the program. The program will
initially focus on private commercial buildings, hotels, other office buildings and select creditworthy
industrial sub-sectors capable of accessing financing on their own. EE measures would be initially
limited to simple and replicable technical end-use systems in order to gradually build up competence
among project agents, facilitate the development of technical program standards to ensure equipment
performance, support project evaluatiodmonitoring, and stimulate the market for EE equipment in these
initial areas. The program will initially concentrate efforts in four major cities (Haiphong, Hanoi, Da
Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City), in order to allow MoI to better manage and focus market development,
training, and project monitoringladministration efforts.        (Future phases would seek to build upon
successful business models from Phase 2, expand the geographical and technical boundaries of the pilot
phase, test new and more complex models {e.g., performance contracting}, and develop appropriate local
financing mechanisms to support larger-scale investments and pipelines.)

The project will support over 200 commercial EEprojects. As agreed, eligible projects must: (i)     result in
net energy savings; and (ii) over 50 percent of the project's financial benefits from energy savings.
                             derive
For eligible projects, any non-energy savings components that could be removed from the project without
affecting the net energy savings would only be eligible for an investment bonus for the energy savings
component.     In addition, the program would seek to support simple, small and replicable energy
efficiency retrofits in end-use systems including lighting systems, motor and drive systems, heating and
cooling systems and electrical supply systems. To participate, eligible project agents are expected to be
pre-qualified by M o I and would be required to participate in some mandatory training courses. Other
principles that were agreed by the Bank and M o I and guided the design of the program included: (a) the
program must be investment driven; (b) different business models should be encouraged, developed and
tested; (c) customers must be creditworthy, willing and able to access financing; (d) programprocedures
should be flexible and change based on market demands and early experiences; (e) local competition
should be encouraged; (f) access to training, grants, etc. must be provided on an open and transparent
basis; and (g) the programwould avoid distorting market conditions inVietnam.

                                                        - 3 1 -

M o I would manage this 4-year pilot program and an Administrative Unit or AU (a commercial bank)
would be responsible for managing and disbursing the subproject grants (to help support energy audit
costs and provide investment bonuses). Technical assistancewould be made available to M o Iand the AU
to support assessments of the proposals. Through ongoing audit programs within EVNand MOST, along
with work under the PDFB grant, it i s expected that an initial pipeline of investment proposals would be
developed and available by Project effectiveness. (Table A2-2 summarizes the cost breakdown for each
component as well as the GEF financing requirement for the program.) Specific subcomponents under
the pilot programare as follows:

 Table A2-2. Project Budget Breakdown for Pilot Commercial EEComponent (all costsinUS                    9
                          Sub-component                          Total Cost'       GEF          M o I
     A. Training
        Project agent and financial institutiontraining courses    478,500       444,950         33,550
        International training advisory services                   270,000       251,100         18,900
        Local advisory training group                              165,000        153,450        11,550
        Customizedtechnical assistanceto project agents            285,000       265,050         19,950
        Additional training support                                 50,000         50,000             0
       Sub-total                                                  1,248,500     I,164,550        83,950
     B. Sub-grants
        Energy audits                                              480,000        480,000             0
        Investmentbonus grants                                     671,000        671,000             0
       Sub-total                                                  I,151,000     1,151,000             0
     C. Project administration
        End-user/agentmarketing, informationdissemination          240,000        223,200        16,800
        MoIadministration'                                         300,000               0      300,000
        AU administration                                           110,000       102,300         7,700
        Program monitoring/evaluation, databasedevelopment         250,000        232,500        17,500
        Audit kits                                                  130,000       130,000             0
        Auditing and project accountant                             65,000         60,450         4,550
        Feasibility studiesfor future phases                       200,000        186,000        14,000
       Sub-total                                                  I,295,000       934,450       360,550
      TOTAL                                                       3,694,500      3,250,000      444,500
     Notes:
         1. Project budgetdoes not include the US$6.65 million, which is expectedto be leveragedby commercial
             sources for subproject financing.
         2. All costs include contingencies.

2a. Comprehensive Training Program (US$l.25 million). A major training programwill be delivered
to develop the basic technical, financial and business skills of project agents to enable them to effectively
market, sell and deliver EE services on a commercial basis. This will include assistance with the
development, financing and implementation of EE project proposals as well as customized technical
assistance to develop the agents' marketing and business plans. Given the significant gap in actual
project experience for many of the project agents in taking retrofit projects through the entire project
cycle from identificatiodcustomer recruitment through financial closure to full implementation, the
training component will be designed to provide project agents with a mix of technical and business skills
appropriate to delivering solutions which result in actual EE project investment and implementation.
Comprehensive training will be provided in energy auditing, technical system analyses, EEtechnologies,
risk management, marketing and sales, financial analyses, various contractual options for EE services,
project management and energy savings verification. Customized assistance will also be provided to
advanced agents in how to facilitate EE projects, including identifyinghecruiting prospective customers,
identifying profitable retrofit investments, selling benefits, structuring and presenting commercial EE
offerings and investment proposals, and identifying and matching the most appropriate sources of finance
with customers and projects.

                                                  - 32 -

This set of training activities would be planned over the 4-year period, with much of the work to be
conducted within the first two years, to strengthen and enhance project agent capabilities by covering the
major themes noted below through general training courses, seminars and workshops, training materials
and more customized technical assistancemechanisms.
   EEServiceIndustrvOpportunities: This training will focus on providingageneral introductionto EE
   service business model options practiced worldwide including energy auditing, equipment supply and
   leasing, energy systems design, installation and commissioning, monitoring and verification of energy
   savings, maintenance and project financing. Different contractual options (from both international
   and local sources) for EE services would be reviewed and discussed. This training module would
   also provide a detailed explanation of the pilot program and explain how agents can participate and
   develop new business services. This module will be aimed at attracting a wide range of potential
   agents and stimulating creative thinkingon new and emerging businessopportunities inEE services.
   Energy Auditing: This training activity will be designed to develop project agent capabilities to
   conduct "in-depth" energy audits in commercial, industrial and water plant systems including: (a)
   data collection for preliminary analysis; (b) energy equipment measurementsand instruments needed
   to accurately calculate operating system efficiencies; (c) EE calculations; (d) energy efficient
   technology information sources and options; (e) estimating EE project costs; (f) methods for
   verifying, measuring and calculating post-construction EE savings; (g) conversion of EE
   opportunities identified in audits into commercial proposals; and (h) preparing grant applications for
   audit and investment bonus grants.
   Marketing & Sales of EE Services: This series will be aimed at addressing key needs for project
   agents to: (i)analyze and segregatethe market and refine customer focus; (ii) and pre-qualify
                                                                                   identify
   customer prospects; (iii)   get appointments and make sales presentations to appropriate levels of
   decision-makers; (iv) contractual options for EE services providers covering different phases and
   scopes of EE services; (v) structure and negotiate service offering agreements; (vi) financing options
   for EE costs; (vii) estimate revenues and profitability from different types of EE services; and (viii)
   generate market strategiesand sales plans for EEbusiness opportunities.
   EETechnologies and Systems: This training series will provide in-depthexposure to a wide range of
   EE technologies including: (a) standard prevalent systems in use in Vietnam; (b) domestic and
   internationalEEtechnologies and practices; (c) manufacturingmethods for EEtechnology supply; (d)
   certification and standards procedures; (e) procurement; (f) import duties and requirements; (g)
   installation and maintenance; (h) warranties and performance guarantees; and (i)sources of
   information for EEtechnology updates.
   EE Financial & Project Analysis: This course will seek to provide training in project development
   and the conversion of technical opportunity into relevant business information required for
   commercial decision making. Specific training will be provided in (i)      risk identification, analysis,
   allocation and contractual options for risk sharing and structuring; (ii)  financial return calculations
   and other decision data for customers, project agents and financial services providers related to EE
   projects; (iii)
                 identifying and satisfying customers' financial needs; and (iv) project financing options.
   EE Implementation Contracting: This training will focus on building the commercial and delivery
   capability requirements of project agents for professional implementation of EE projects including:
   (a) phases and management of activities options for implementation; (b) project scheduling; (c)
   procurement and contractual needs for design, financing, supply, installation and commissioning
   services; (d) resource and manpower requirements; (e) commercial, insurance and legal aspects of
   project implementation; and (f) options for alliances, joint ventures and other service structures for
   combining service capabilities to deliver EEsolutions.
   Measuring. Verifying and Maintaining Energy Savings: This component will focus on providing
   comprehensive training in the "post-construction"         phase of the EE project including: (a)

                                                    - 33 -

    commissioning and verification of EE equipment "start-up" performance; (b) customer and supplier
    agreements and protocols for verification of EE performance; (c) EE equipment maintenance needs
    and agreement formats; (d) adjusting for energy price and occupatiodactivity level variations; and (e)
    optimization of installedtechnologies.

0   CustomizedTechnical Assistance: This element of the training program will focus ongoing technical
    assisting for more advanced project agents to assist in overcoming market barriers and with
    developing businessplans aimed at creating long term commercial businessrevenues and profits from
    various components of the EE service industry chain including: (a) business and market plan
    development; (b) customer recruitment; (c) project packaging and selling; (d) equipment supply
    and/or manufacturing; (e) design engineering; (0 measurement and testing; (g) financial services; (h)
    installation contracting; (i)maintenance; and Cj) comprehensive ESCO services.

The above training themes shall be conducted at a general level to a wide array of project agents and in
restricted and customized settings for more advanced project agents. The training activities will be
developed progressively over the project period and based on feedback from project agents, reviews of
proposals by AU and MoI, and periodic program assessments. The training program will target project
agents, but would also be available for M o I and AU staff, interested financial institutions, end-users and
other appropriate parties (e.g., EVN staff, project staff from UNDP and other donor programs, etc.). The
training would be delivered using a variety of mechanisms and approaches including lecture-style
presentations, facilitated discussions, workshops and seminars, case study work, training manuals,
individual agent support work, etc.

While the financial services industry in Vietnam i s at a very early stage of development (a significant
proportion of investments are self-financed by owners using both their own funds and low-interest and
no-interest informal loans from extended family), the pilot program will provide some training and
support material to both formal and informal financial institutions on how to structure offerings for
financing EE projects. It i s expected that most initial projects will be self-financed by customers or
supplier credit schemes, however, over time the development of more commercially oriented financing
sources, such as leasing and commercial lending, i s expected to pick up and lead to an increase in EE
investments.

2b. SubprojectAuditandInvestmentGrants(US$1.15 million). The programwill provide subproject
grants for energy audits (US$0.48 million) and investments (US$0.67 million) to project agents and their
customers. The purpose of these grants i s to stimulate the market for EE services by overcoming market
barriers such as high project development costs from initial audits, skepticism of customers to actual
investment opportunities, limited credibility of project agents to prepare and implement EE projects, and
perceived risks associated with committing to EE investments. It i s expected that these grants will
leverage about US$6.65 million of private sector investment into EE technologies during the program.
The energy audit grants will be used to defray the initial costs of project identification and development
and allow agents to generate and provide customers with structured information leading to customer
decisions regarding EE technology applications and investments. To ensure that the project agents and
their customers have incentives to implement the recommendations of the audit reports, a portion of the
audit payment (about 70 percent) would be held until the project i s under implementation so that the
incentive i s tied to investment decisions rather than the completion of audit reports. Efforts will also be
made to tie audit grant applications with some conditions that commit the customer to proceed to the
investment stage if viable EE measures (agreed payback or similar thresholds set upfront) are identified.
It is also planned that the percentage of GEF grant reimbursement (of up to $8,000) for the audit costs
will be reduced as the Project progresses (100 percent in Years 1 and 2, 75 percent in Year 3 and 50
percent inYear 4), agent capability and credibility improve and the market develops.

The GEF grant would also be used to offer investment grants for customers and agents that have fully
implementedEEinvestments and submitted programcommissioning certificates subject to AU inspection

                                                     - 34 -

and approval. Inthe initial years and for selected projects, a higher percentage grant would be offered to
customers in order to help ensure actual investments are made and that case study information on these
initial experiences i s developed and disseminated to other sub-sectors and project agents. As with the
audit grants, in order to shift to more commercial terms, these investment bonus grants (of up to $30,000)
shall be provided on a diminishingpercent basis over the 4-year program term (20 percent in Years 1and
2, 10 percent in Year 3 and 5 percent in Year 4). Table A2-3 summarizes the projected financing
requirements of the programfrom the GEFand commercial sources.

A local financial institution shall be contracted by MoI to act as the AU with responsibility for
administering the subproject grants based on agreed-upon and publicly available program procedures.
The AU has been selected on a competitive process and has demonstrated the necessary internal
capabilities and controls to manage and disburse the funds. For some of its functions (e.g., audit report
screenings, investment proposals), the AU will require the capability to carry out the technical evaluation
of EE projects. It i s planned that technical advisory support shall be made available to the AU with
project funds to support these AU-led technical appraisals and reviews. Specific funding tasks to be
carried out by the AU include: (a) carrying out financial and technical evaluation of proposals for funding
based on defined program criteria; (b) administering appropriate terms and conditions for the
disbursement of funds to customers; and (c) certifying subproject grant disbursements to MoIand keeping
appropriate records of funddisbursements.

                        Table A2-3. Pilot CommercialEEProgram BusinessPlan
                                        Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Total
     GEF Financing
     Energy audit grants                 24,000         96,000     180,000       180,000      480,000
     Project investmentbonuses          48,800         195,200    220,500       206,500       671,000
     Total                              72,800         291,200    400,500       386,500      1,151,000
     ProjectFinancing
     Small projects (US$10-20k)          64,000        256,000    640,000        960,000     1,920,000
     Mediumprojects (US$20-60k)          80,000        320,000     800,000     1,200,000    2,400,000
     Large projects (US$6Ok+)           100,000        400,000   1,000,000     1,500,000     3,000,000
     Total                              244,000        976,000   2,440,000     3,660,000    7,320,000
   Note: Project financing includes the GEFproject investmentbonus.

GEF funds disbursed by the AU to programparticipants are not intended to displace the primary sources
of financing   arranged by program agents and their clients through their preferred channels. One of the
potential advantages of using a local financing institution (and several local banks and leasing companies
have been contacted and confirmed their interest in participating in the program) i s that in addition to
administering the program grants, the AU can offer financial services to customers for EE projects, as
required and appropriate.

2c. Program Marketing, Monitoring and Administration (US$1.30 million). The program would
also offer support for overall marketing of the program to various stakeholders, periodic monitoring and
evaluation of the program achievements and benefits, and administration of the program by MoI, the AU
and other institutions responsible for programimplementation. Specific activities are expected to include:

     e   Program marketing (e.g., identification and recruitment of project agents, raising awareness of
         potential end-use customers of EE services, case study development and dissemination to project
         agents and end-users, including non-participants);
     e   Program administration and monitoring (e.g., AU management fees, technical support, program
         database development andmonitoring, post-installation inspections, evaluation andreporting);
     e   Technical assistanceto MoIand the AU; and
     0   Feasibility studies for expanding successful business models, developing more complex models,
         establishing various financial mechanisms and instruments (e.g., credit lines, dedicated funds,

                                                    - 3 5 -

         guarantees, supplier crediaeasing arrangements, etc.), and appropriate policy reviews, to support
         project pipelines, and further market expansion infuture IDNGEFoperations.

Substantial activity will be required to market the program to all stakeholders in the initial years due to
the early stage of development of the EE service market. As the program i s geared towards "testing and
developing business models", it will be critical that structured feedback mechanisms be established to
periodically review and assess successes and failures of various business models developed and facilitate
corrective actions. Dissemination of successful case studies and lessons learned i s also an important
aspect to support efficient market development. The program marketing, monitoring and administration
component will be managed by M o I and it i s expected that this program will establish a strong resident
capability within the GOV for the long-term support for this emerging industry. GEF funds would be
used to support program marketing efforts, monitoring and evaluation, technical assistance and feasibility
studies for future phases. However, GEFfunds will not be used to support any M o Iadministration costs,
such as staff andor office space, which would be supported with M o Icounterpart funds.

An important aspect of the programwill be the inherent plans for replication and sustainability within the
project design and commercial models supported. Specifically, the program i s designed to support
replicationby end users that do not participate inthe programdirectly, by: (i)  developingcapabilities with
project agents to provide EE services to end-users on a fully commercially-sustainable basis, even after
program has been completed; and (ii)      case studies will be developed and disseminated on successful
projects to non-participating end users and project agents for further replication. The case studies would
provide the technical, financial and logistical information on successful projects for end users to consider,
either with or without project agent facilitation.      Sustainability will be based on the demonstrated
commercial merits of the EE service business and investments to bothproject agents and end users. Over
time, the training and administration costs will decline as the EE business gains more credibility, market
barriers are removed, and localcapabilities are further developed.

Proiect Indices for Future Phases: Project performance indices will be monitored during implementation
of this secondphase operation, which will then be used as a basis for developing appropriate intervention
strategies for future phases andjustify further GEF support. For EVN's programs, the capabilities within
the DSM Cell and related divisions would be monitored in areas of DSMplanning, DSM programdesign
and implementation, DSM program monitoring and evaluation, load research, overall management
capability and an assessment of commercial DSMbusinessesfor EVN. Key milestones and indicators for
the areas identified above would include: (a) DSM planning - confirmation that EVN has incorporated
projectedDSM impacts in its system expansion plans by end 2005; (b) DSM implementation - the DSM
Cell has successfully developed and launched four large-scale programs by end 2004 and met key
program targets by June 2006; (c) DSM evaluation - the DSM Cell has developed evaluation plans,
implemented them and reported key findings and impacts to EVN management and the Bank by end
2006; (d) Load research - the DSM Cell has initiated a load research program, developed key customer
class and end-use load profiles and determined DSM program impact estimates using this data by end
2005; (e) Overall management - EVN has adequately staffed the DSM Cell with skills needed to fully
carry out Phase 2, completed all project procurement successfully, implemented recommendations of
Bank supervision missions, successfully coordinated work with consultants, PCs and other program
partners, etc. by the end of the project; and (0 Business opportunities - the DSM Cell has implementeda
workshop to present findings and recommendations from the DSM business opportunities review and
articulated its intent to proceed with agreed actions by end 2006. In addition, all Phase 2 project
indicators, as noted in Annex 1, will be monitored to ensure that the objectives of Phase 2 are fully met.
Under the evaluation efforts, consultants will be hired to develop an overall monitoring plan for the full
D S M program and identify key milestones, institutional development indicators and triggers for future
phases. With fully successful outcomes in these key functional areas, future GEF support in subsequent
phases would be limited to addressing new institutional challenges for D S M implementation under a
restructured sector, removal of market barriers for new targeted end uses, support for new commercial

                                                   - 36 -

DSM ventures (e.g., utility-basedESCOs), etc. and any critical supplementary capacity buildingfor EVN
as determined under the evaluation assignments.

For MoI's program, key functional areas would include the ability for project agents to identify, develop,
implement and monitor projects with decreasinggovernment or program intervention over time (with the
exception of commercial financing) and MoI's capacity to manage the overall program, development of
appropriate informational databases and monitoring plans for further market development, etc. Key
milestones and indicators for the areas identified above would include: (a) Agent capability - a critical
mass of agents (e.g., at least 5-10) are actively participating in the program, recruiting customers and
developing highquality proposals by end 2005; (b) Subproject implementation- project agents are able
to identify new contractuaYfinancing options for completing transactions and implement projects
continuously over the full project period, despite the gradual decline in project training and subproject
grants; (c) M o l management - M o I has adequately staffed the PMB with skills needed to fully manage
the program, completedall project procurement successfully, adequately supervised the AU, implemented
recommendations of Bank supervision missions, successfully coordinated work between project agents,
customers, AU, banks, etc., and implemented key market development, program marketing and
evaluation activities, by the end of the project. Also, indicators for MoI's pilot commercial EE program
(see Annex 1) will be monitored to ensure that the objectives of the program are achieved, a requirement
for further GEF support in subsequent phases. Close monitoring and achievement of these key indices
under this Project would allow future GEF intervention to focus on developing more sophisticated
business models for project agents, such as energy performance contracting, and addressing improved
access to commercial financing for agents and end users, through establishment of a dedicated EEfund or
loan guarantee program and supplemental capacity building to M o I to implement these financing
programs. These indicators, for both EVNand MoI, will form an integral part of the Project's supervision
missions and will be explicitly reported to the GEF inthe Mid-TermReview.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             bo


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 Q

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sSL,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             58
    E
    eW                                        c ' l
    e
   PI     ...........................................................................                                                                                       ........................................................................                         ..........
                                                           ..............................                                  .....................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ?3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
m
l-

 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bz9
                                                                                                                                                                           VI




          ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................             *

                                             - 3 8 -


                                Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
          VIETNAM: Demand-SideManagement & EnergyEfficiency Project


                                                        Local      Foreign       Total
             Project Cost By Component                US $million US $million U S $million
1 EVN'sDSMProgram
 a. Expandedtime-of-use metering                         0.28        2.07         2.35
 b. Pilot direct loadcontrol program                     0.19        0.53         0.72
 c. CFL promotion                                        1.15        0.64         1.79
d. Fluorescent tube lamp market transformation           0.78        0.00         0.78
e. Supporting programs and technical assistance          1.28        1.30         2.58

2. Mor's Pilot Commercial Energy Efficiency Program
a. Training                                              0.16        1.08         1.24
b. Subproject grants and financing                       4.14        3.66         7.80
c. Programmarketing, evaluation and administration       0.48        0.82         1.30

Total Baseline Cost                                      8.46      10.10         18.56
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00        0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00        0.00         0.00
                       Total Project Costs               8.46      10.10         18.56

                 Total Financing Required                8.46      10.10         18.56


                                                        Local      Foreign       Total
              Project Cost By Category                US $million US $million U S $million

Goods                                                      5.65         6.75        12.40
Works                                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Services                                                   2.81         3.28         6.09
Training                                                   0.00         0.08         0.08
Other                                                      0.00         0.00         0.00

                                   Total Project Costs     8.46        10.10        18.56

                             Total Financing Required      8.46        10.10        18.56

                                                   - 3 9 -


                                Annex 4: IncrementalCost Analysis
             VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management andEnergy Efficiency Project


Overall Context for Energy EfficiencyinVietnam

Energy efficiency in Vietnam over the coming decade i s critical for the country's continued economic
growth and for the global environment. Energy efficiency and conservation investments are necessary to
limit the otherwise huge increase in primary energy supply required to sustain the fast pace of growth of
Vietnam's economy and to mitigate the economic and environmental consequences of expanded energy
consumption. The Government has shown its commitment to the promotion of energy efficiency through
the development of the proposed Decree on Energy Conservation and Efficient Use, which would provide
a broad policy framework for a comprehensive set of initiatives to promote more efficient use of energy
inall sectors. Inaddition, the GOV has supported anumber of programs, inconcert with other donors, to
launch programs to support these goals.

From 1992-97, Vietnam experienced unprecedented economic growth, averaging 8.2 percent annually.
During this same period, energy demand grew 30 percent faster than GDP and electricity 70 percent
faster. The ability of Vietnam to continue to meet such an aggressive economic growth rate will require
substantial expansion of the energy sector and, in particular, the electric power sector. The Bank
estimates that the power utility, Electricity of Vietnam (EVN), will face an almost threefold increase in
demand over the next 10 years, from about 25,800 GWh in 2001 to over 70,400 GWh by 2010, with
annual demand growth of 10-15 percent. (In 2001, EVN's peak demand increased by some 18 percent
over 2000.) Generation-level peak power demand i s also projected to increase from the 2001 level of
5,655 MW to more than 16,000 MW by 2010, requiring an associated capital investment of more than
US$15 billion.

In 1997, EVN, with World Bank assistance, commissioned the "Demand-side Management Assessment
for Vietnam," to assess the potential for demand-side management (DSM) to help meet the country's
future electric power requirements. DSMi s a resource planning and energy service tool that encourages
electricity consumers to utilize energy more efficiently through a variety of measures, including time-of-
use (TOU) tariffs, power factor penalties and correction measures, energy audits and retrofits, load
research and management, informatiodeducation campaigns, incentive mechanisms to encourage
adoption of energy-efficient equipment and other DSM programs targeted for specific industrial,
commercial and residential end-uses. This DSM Assessment identified important opportunities for cost-
effective electricity savings in a number of sectors and end-uses and recommended a two-phased DSM
program, which would reduce the peak load by an estimated 700 MW and save more than 3,550 GWh/yr
(about 3.5 million toe) by the year 2010. Under Phase 1, supported by a SEK 29 million (about US$2.8
million) Swedish Sida grant under the Transmission,Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project, a
DSM Cell within EVN has been established, a supporting DSM policy review and framework has been
completed, pilot load research, load management, lighting and marketing programs have been launched,
and a DSM business plan for Phase 2 has been developed; the Ministry of Construction (MoC) has
developed an EE buildingcode; and, MOSThas developed and will introduce EE lighting and industrial
motor standards. Overall project coordination i s being managed by MoI. It was recommended that Phase
I1would: (i) DSMprogram implementation and evaluation; (ii)
              expand                                                     increasingly shift DSM functions
from to EVN's subsidiary power distribution companies (PCs); (5)expand the load management
program; (iv) enforce the building code and appliance standards and develop an expanded standards
regime; (v) develop financing mechanisms for future DSM activities; (vi) buildlocal capacity to perform
full-scale commercial and industrial energy audits and investment plans; and (vii) promote private sector
participationinprovidingEEservices.

                                                      -40-


Barriers to Energy Efficiency

Despite the potential for cost-effective EE improvements in all sectors, there are inherent commercial
barriers as well as some barriers unique to Vietnam that have prevented any significant DSMIEE
investments to date. These include:

         Inadequate information and skepticism from and for end-users in all sectors, equipment
         manufacturers, utilities, and service providers on the potential for EE improvements and
         estimated impacts.     Many end-users are unaware of the difference between low and high-
         efficiency products, in terms of life cycle costs, equivalent levels of output, longer equipment
         lives, supply sources, other benefits     (e.g., lower heat from CFLs, improved performance of
         systems from efficiency motors and adjustable speed drives, reduced maintenance costs, etc.) or
         potential low-cost measures and new technologies/practices. Other end-users are aware but are
         skeptical of the savings estimates, given the very low penetration rate of these newer products in
         the local markets.
         Limited technical expertise of end-users, manufacturers/suppliers, utilities, and potential service
         providers on modern efficient technologies and practices, proper energy auditing and detailed
         project design, alternative business and transaction models to support EEinvestments, estimating
         and verifying energy savings, etc. This lack of demonstrated and credible technical expertise
         heavily contributes to the information barrier noted above.
        Deficiency in locally available EE equipment, given the limited awareness and understanding of
        EE measures as noted above. Local suppliers and manufacturers supply equipment in demand
         and, thus, face little market pressure to improve product efficiencies and qualities. The resulting
         lack of EE equipment, in turn, serves to discourage those end-users that are interested in EE
         improvements. Those that do seek this equipment find supply lines difficult, face high import
         duties and restrictions, have difficulty identifying suitable, highquality equipment, etc.
         Commercial and industrial customers as well as service providers face high project development
         costs and perceived risks, due to the need for energy audits and technical studies to identify
         potential EEimprovements without the assurances that highreturnprojects exist. Where service
         providers bear the initial costs of these audits, end-users have been skeptical of the savings
         estimates developed by auditors with limited track record and technologies/equipment with little
         or no demonstrated performance under Vietnamese conditions. Comparing potential investments
         in EE versus core business costs (Le., increased production), consumers view conventional
         investments as more risk-free than future revenue streams derived from less tangible sources such
         as energy savings.

Barrier Removal Strategy

To remove the key barriers noted above, the Project has been designed to increase public awareness about
EEmeasures, achieve increasesinthe technical abilities of those promoting EEimprovements, establish
track records in DSM and EE projects, and demonstrate commercially-viable business models to support
D S W E investments and transactions. Specifically, the Project would support barrier removal in the
following ways: (a) achieve transformation of the lighting markets (for CFLs and T-8 fluorescent tube
lamps (FTLs)) by a combination of declining subsidies, bulk procurement of lamps, intensive marketing,
interest-free financing on utility electricity bills, and manufacturer partnershipdnegotiations; and (b)
support for EE transactions in the commercialhndustrial sectors by testing and developing alternative
business models for service providers to facilitate EE improvements through (i)         marketing of EE and
information dissemination to end-users; (ii)      extensive training of project agents; (iii) funds to
                                                                                              grant
support project development (i.e., energy audit) costs; and (iv) investment grants to encourage initial

                                                         -41 -


projects to help build project agent experience and reputations in the market. In both the EVN and MoI
components, funds will also be sought for technical assistanceto all relevant parties to ensure successful
implementation and full realization of Project impacts.

Proiect Benefits

The Project activities will result in large and measurable peak load reduction, energy savings and
associated carbon dioxide (C02)emissions reduction. However, more important than the actual savings
derived duringthe Project period i s the removal of key market barriers, sustained market transformation,
significant capacity enhancementsand firmfoundations laid for future DSMand EEprograms. These can
then be further built upon in future years through subsequent BanWGEF-supported operations. And as
these business models develop and sustain themselves based on their commercial merits, savings will
persist and grow even further.

Energy Savings: Energy savings would be derived from EVN's CFL and FTLprograms as well as EE
investment projects undertaken by the project agent^.^            The total cumulative energy savings from these
initiatives i s estimated at 798 GWh from equipment installations completed during the project period.
(See Table A4-1.) However, since these markets will be significantly more developed after the project
has been completed, the full ten year energy savings would be much higher, i.e., 2,928 GWh (see Table
A4-2).


                             Project Component              Peak Reduction Energy Savings
                                                                  (MW)                 (GWh)
                     EVN'sDSMPrograms
                       TOUMetering                                   69.7
                       Direct Load Control                            3.1
                       CFLs                                          33.4
                       FTLs                                          14.4
                     MoI's Commercial EEProgram                        --                  302
                     Total                                         120.5                   798




         Project Component                   Indicator         During Project Period            Over 10Year Period
 EVN's DSMPrograms                             GWh                              496          ................................................
                                                                                                                       1,478
                                             Tons CO?                     594.983                              1.773.498
 Mol's CommercialEEProgram                     GWh                              302                                    1,450
                                             Tons C02                     362,252                              1,740,333

 Total                                         GWh                              798                                    2,928        -----------
                                             Tons C02                     957,234                             3,513,831




  While EVN's load managementprograms, such as their TOU meteringand direct load control, may save some energy, their
primary purpose is to shift loads from peak to off-peak hours, so no energy savings estimates for these programs have been
includedinthis analysis.

                                                      - 4 2 -


IncrementalCosts

Implementation of the barrier removal strategy noted previously would require funding of incremental
costs, which would be the difference between the cost of implementing the baseline scenario versus that
of the GEF Project alternative.        GEF funds are sought to support part of this incremental cost.
Descriptions and explanations for the baseline scenario, GEF Project alternative and incrementalcosts are
further elaborated below.

Baseline Scenario

While there have been a growing number of initiatives designed to encourage EE in Vietnam, few have
actually led to major reductions in energy use. This i s to be expected, since Vietnam is in an early stage
of its EE programs and, thus, most of the efforts to date have been on pilot or demonstration bases
designed to increase local planning and implementationcapabilities. For the DSM activities under EVN,
most of the Phase 1efforts were designed to review regulatory requirements, develop basic load research
and DSM planning capability, and implement a few pilot programs. As a result of Phase 1efforts, EVN
management has now accepted the need for load management options that complement its large-scale
supply-side investments, and the associated SEER Project has provided for IDA funds to support these
measures. EVN has been more reluctant to make major investments in EE measures, even in end-uses
that correspond to system peaks, due perceived skepticism of their load reduction benefits (since load
reduction would be heavily dependent on energy use patterns). Inthe absence of any GEF support, EVN
would have limited its DSM activities to load management and load shifting programs (e.g., TOU
metering, DLC, load research and DSM planning/pilots) and would not have pursued any lighting
programs. Thus the total DSM program investment would have been only $4.7 million ($4.3 million
from IDA and $0.4 millionfrom EVN).

Without any lightingprograms, sponsored by EVNor other agency, it is not expected that the market for
more efficient products would grow much, if at all. According to the results of a survey of about 3,000
households conducted under the Phase 1DSM efforts, lighting accounted for almost 40 percent of the
total peak load of which an overwhelming majority were in the residential sector. Of the residential
lighting load, about 17 percent (302 Mw) were incandescent bulbs and 83 percent (1,478 MW) were
FTLs. The current penetration of CFLs and T-8 F T L s i s currently very low. The number of CFLs in the
residential sector i s estimated to be about 0.5 million, or only 0.6 percent of total lamps, and efficient T-8
F T L s are estimated to be 4.4 million (representing about 8.1 percent of all FTLs). For the purpose of the
baseline analysis, it i s conservatively assumed that the number of CFLs and FTLs would increase by 5
percent per year without any government-sponsored market intervention. Thus the total market for these
efficient lighting alternatives would remain at very low levels over the next 5-10 years. (Annex 11
contains further elaboration of the residentiallightingmarkets inVietnam today.)

For the pilot commercial EE program, interviews with over 40 potential project agents and end-users
indicated that existing investments for simple EE retrofits were less than $200,000 in 2001. Those few
companies that have implemented a number of projects indicated that there are a number of barriers to
market development, as noted previously, that have and will continue to prevent any major increases in
their businesses. For the purpose of the baseline analysis, it i s assumed that the existing agent industry
expands their overall businesses by 5 percent per year (due to increased business of existing agents and
new agents entering the market), although the trend in past years has been much lower. This would lead
to an overall estimated investment amount of about $905,000 over the 4-year program period in the
absence of any GEFor other donor support.

Global benefits under this scenario would have been very modest, since EVN's load management
programs would not have yielded in any COZreductions, the lighting markets would have remained

                                                    -43 -


dominatedby conventionallightingproducts, and the existing EEservice provider market would continue
to develop slowly. Thus, the baseline investment scenario would have yielded emissions reductions of
about 334 thousand tons of COz.

The total estimated costfor implementation of the baseline scenario is $4.7 million.

GEFProject Alternative

The proposed alternative will seek to demonstrate the benefits of EE programs to complement EVN's
load management efforts by transforming the markets for CFL and FI'L lighting equipment.
Furthermore, the Project will help test and develop promising businessmodels for EEservice providers to
facilitate EE investments and improvements in commercial and industrial customer premises. These
initiatives, which are developed on a least-cost basis, will be complemented by public campaigns,
information dissemination, technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation activities to collectively
help overcome and remove the barriers identified earlier.

Under this alternative scenario, additional support would be provided in the following areas to help
address, partially remove or fully remove the barriers identified (in addition to those measures that would
have taken place under the baseline scenario):

         Inorder to achieve major increasesinthe marketshareof CFLsinthe residentiallighting market,
         a comprehensive 1 million CFL program would be launched to intensively market the more
         efficient lamps, offer declining subsidies, provide interest-free loans to be recovered by EVN and
         its PCs through customer electricity bills, bulk procurement of lamps by EVN to achieve cost
         reductions from manufacturers and test alternative delivery models (e.g., sales through PCs, retail
         outlets, NGOs, performance contracts, etc.). It i s expected that this will lead to a substantial
         increase in CFL sales (about three times the baseline) and achieve a significant cost reduction
         (estimated at about 15-25 percent) in retail CFL prices as economies-of-scale are realized. EVN
         has agreed to implement the 3-year program and borrow IDA funds to operate the program inthe
         second and thirdyears given the load reduction benefits. But, grant support will be sought for the
         first year of the program (or first 200,000 CFLs sold) in order to test the overall program design,
         delivery mechanisms, use of subsidies, prevention of potential abuses, demonstrated load
         reduction effects, etc. before the IDA funds would be used. The total estimated cost of this
         Project alternative would be $1.79 million.
         To transform the FI'Lmarket from 20 W and 40 W (T-10) lamps to 18 W and 36 W (T-8) lamps,
         a major marketing effort would be launched to promote the T-8 FTLs in concert with
         manufacturer agreements to increase production of T-8 lamps and correspondingly reduce T-10
         lamp sales. This i s required to reduce the perceived risks by manufacturers that customers will
         accept the T-8 lamps and to increase customer awareness and understanding that the T-8 lamps
         provide the same lumen output at about the same retail cost but use about 10 percent less
         electricity.   EVN would administer the program, enter into agreements with the local
         manufacturers and importers, and administer the marketing efforts. A target increase in sales of 6
         million T-8 lamps i s expected during the Project period. The total cost of this Project alternative
         would be $0.78 million.

     0   To support the development and catalyze the expansion of a commercial service industry to
         promote EE improvements and investments in commercial and industrial facilities, major support
         would be provided to existing and new project agents to expand their EEbusiness activities. This
         would be achieved through intensive training activities, marketing of EE to end-users, technical
         assistanceto agents to develop marketing and businessplans and close initial deals, grant support
         for subproject energy audit costs and investment bonuses for early projects in order to stimulate

                                                      -44 -


         deal flow in the early years. The grants would be decreased over the program period, as project
         agent abilities, reputations, and EE awareness builds in the market. (Issues such as project agent
         equity, access to commercial financing sources, market-based risk sharing arrangements would
         not be addressed duringthis phase but would be candidates for future support.) The total cost of
         this Project alternative would be $3.4 million.
         Inaddition to the key initiatives noted above, support would be requiredfor technical assistance,
         capacity building, monitoring and evaluation to ensure proper implementation, management and
        reporting of the Project alternative. The total cost of this Project alternative would be $1.62
        million.

The total estimatedcostfor implementationof the GEFProject alternative is $12.29 million.

Total Incremental Costs

The total cost of the GEF Project alternative i s US$12.29 million, as compared with the baseline case of
$4.7 million. Thus, the incrementalcost of the GEF Project alternative would be $7.59 million, of which
GEF support inthe amount of only $5.5 million is requested. The balance of $2.09 would be financed by
IDA, M o I and EVN. Incremental benefits of the proposed alternative would include both the COz
emissions reductions resulting from project implementation as well as further replication of EE measures
resulting from the market development and transformation initiatives implemented under the Project.
Energy savings derived from equipment replaced during the Project period are estimated to amount to
over 798 GWh (about 197 thousand toe), which would lead to the reduction of almost 1.0 million tons of
COz equivalent. Over a 10-year period, where much of the market transformation benefits will accrue,
the total estimated energy savings would be 2,928 GWh (about 724 thousand toe) corresponding to about
3.5 million tons of COZequivalent. Over the 10-year period, the GEF cost per ton of COZequivalent are
estimated to be about US$1.57 per ton. (A summary of the costs and benefits i s summarized inTable A4-
3, below.)


                                        Baseline               GEFAlternative               Increment
DomesticBenefits                                                                       0 Removalof
                                    management               lighting marketsthrough     skepticism to DSM
                                    programs                 EVNprograms                 and EEby utilities,
                                    implementedby         0  New pilot DSM               consumers, and
                                    EVNandPCs                programs implemented        manufacturers
                                  0 Low growth inEE          by EVN                      Additional energy
                                    lighting adoption        Significant increasein      savingsof 2,928
                                  0 Very low growth in       agent businessesand         GWh
                                    existing agent           transactions                Significant
                                    businesses            0  Increasedawareness in       developmentof agent
                                                             EEby consumersand           (ESCO) industry
                                                             financial institutions
GlobalEnvironmental               Reductions inGHG       ReductionsinGHGbased          3.5 milliontons of
Benefits                          based on low level of  on market transformation      carbon reduced.
                                  agent business.         of lighting and higher level
                                                         of agent business.
Costs by Component(US$M)
EVNDSMProgram                             4.70                     8.22                          3.52
M o l CommercialEE                        0.00                     4.07                          4.07
Program
TotalCosts                               4.70                     12.29                          7.59
GEFIncrementalCosts                                                                              5.50

                                                    -45 -


                           Annex 5A: FinancialManagement Arrangements
              VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project


Financial Management Assessment

ExecutiveSummary. (Pleaserefer to section C4 in the main body of the PAD.)

A CFAA analyzing the general financial management environment and risks inthe country was released
inOctober 2001. Below is the extract on country issuesand risks analysis: "At present, there is clearly a
certain degree of fiduciary risk in the use of public resources, given that the budget process i s not yet
transparent, public access to government financial information i s limited, and effective legislative
oversight i s not fully in place yet. Institutions responsible for ensuring financial accountability are also
weak, audit findings are not publicly available as a matter of fact, and the reporting system does not
support effective ongoing monitoring. At the present, accountability to citizens for the use of government
revenues and for the quality of overall fiscal management does not fully meet the minimumstandards of
the IMFFiscalTransparency Code. The Government has committed, however, to take steps to meet these
standards. Overall, fiduciary risk will be manageable on on-budget items provided that the Government
takes the steps outlined ... as well as those committed under the PER. The risk i s currently high on off-
budget items, which may not be subject to standard controls and oversight. Risk at the sub-national level
i s compounded due to the lack of adequate skills and experience in accounting and auditing. Although
aggregate information from the budget has recently been made available, data on public financial
statements, particularly those of SOEs, are still not available as a matter of course."

Summary Project Description. IDNGEF will support a phased, 12-year (1998-2010) programmatic
approach to DSM and EE activities inVietnam. This program has begun with the Phase 1DSM project
and would continue to build upon initial program results and efforts in 2-3 additional phased operations.
This Project represents the second phase and consists of two components: (i) second phase DSM
                                                                                       a
component under EVN; and (ii)     implementation of a pilot commercial EEprogramby MoI. For the EVN
component, a total investment of US$8.22 million would be sought to support the continuation of EVN's
DSM activities initiated under the IDNSida project. US$5.20 million has already been approved under
the IDA SEER Project, US$0.77 million would be made available from EVN's internal funds, and
US$2.25 million from the GEF grant. A pilot commercial EE component, also supported under the
associated GEF project, would require an estimated $10.34 million in total project financing ($3.25
million GEF, $6.65 million private sector, $0.44 million MoI) and would be managedby MoI.

Country Issues. N o changes from the assessment conducted insupport of the IDA SEER Project.

Risk Analysis. In principal, the financial procedures for EVN and MoI under the project are fairly
straightforward with centralization of payment from two Special Accounts under EVN and M o I and,
therefore, the risks are not high comparing to other projects. The special features of this project are the
possible use of a revolving fund at the PC level and the use of an Administration Unit (AU) in M o I to
issue subproject grants.

For EVN's CFL program, there could be some risks if (i)         households fail make lamp repayments; (ii)
PCsIothers fail to keep track of installed lamp repayments; and (iii)       PCsIothers use fund reflows for
unapproved items. However, these risks could be addressedand mitigatedby a detail programplan, now
under development by EVN, which would include detailed procedures for PCsIothers to: (i)              screen,
evaluate and select households; (ii)    record separately all funds relating to the CFL program in their
accounting systems; and (iii)   mechanisms to check the validity of payments made from these revolving
funds. This detailed program plan will be prepared by EVN and submitted for Bank approval as a

                                                  -46 -


condition of Project Effectiveness. For MoI, selection of a highly qualified AU will be essential, since
M o I would have to rely fully on the AU for receiving, reviewing and approving program applications.
Thus detailed Terms of Reference were prepared for the AU (including eligibility criteria as determined
by the Bank), banks were pre-qualified, and a workshop was held in September 2002 for interested banks
to discuss the program and AU responsibilities. In addition, M o I would develop an Operation Manual,
which would include: (i)    legal obligations of AU; and (ii)  guidelines for periodic AU performance
reviews. These measures would help M o Ireduce these potentialrisks significantly.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The strengths for bothEVNandMoI are the experiences derived from the
on-going IDA-financed projects/grants. However, potential areas of weaknesses still exist which could be
addressed and mitigated if key actions are taken by the implementing agencies (see risk analysis above).
The Action Plan below has been developed to ensure necessary activities are completed before
implementationof the project begins.

                             Action                          ResponsibleParties        Due Date
      1. Conductafinancial management assessment of               MoYIDA              Completed
        the selectedAU, satisfactory to IDA, to ensure
        adequate internal controls are inplace to carry
        out the Project.
     2. Adopt a detailed CFLprogram plan to include                  EVN                Project
        procedures to:                                                               Effectiveness
        (i)Screen,evaluateandselecthouseholds;
        (ii)Recordseparatelyallfundsrelatingtothe
          CFL program inEVN's accounting systems; and
        (iii)Developmechanismstocheckthevalidityof
          payments made from these revolvingfunds.
     3. Adopt an OperationsManual to include:                        M o I              Project
        (i)LegalobligationsofAU;and                                                  Effectiveness
        (ii)GuidelinesforperiodicAUperformance
          reviews.
     4. Appoint a Project Accountant, with qual$cations              M o I         December 31, `03
        acceptableto the Bank, to assist in overseeing the
        AU and managing the SpecialAccount.

ImplementationArrangements. The executing agencies would beEVNandMoI.
EVN would assume overall responsibility for Component 1. This would include the development of
detailed DSM program designs and implementation plans, preparation of evaluation plans, overall DSM
planning functions, analysis of all market and load researchdata, procurement of equipment, procurement
and management of consultants and contractors, coordination of program implementation with the PCs
and other agencies, and reporting to IDNGEF. Since EVN does not have direct interface with energy
consumers, the PCs would have primary responsibility for recruiting customers for the load management
programs, installation of meters and DLC receivers, reselling of CFLs and proving data requirements to
support EVN's load analysis and evaluation efforts.
M o I will maintain overall responsibility for the Component 2.       This would include selection and
supervision of the AU and technical advisors, procurement and management of all training program
consultants, program marketing, monitoring, administration and reporting, and coordination among the
various programagents, customers, AU and advisors.

                                                      -47 -


Funds Flow. The project is divided into two components: (i)DSM component with EVN; and (ii)
                                                                     a                                         a
pilot commercial EE program under MoI. For component (i),            EVN will open a Special Account at the
central level to disburse GEF-supported project activities. It i s also expected that EVN would use a
portion of the grant to establish one or more revolving funds at the PC levels (or other suitable
arrangement) to finance CFLs. Under their current plans, EVNwould first procure a full set of lamps and
provide them to rural households via PCs, VWU, provincial authorities or other suitable agency at no
initial cost. The PCs or other agencies would then recover the cost of the lamps over 6-12 months
through the customers' electricity bills or other suitable mechanism and the reflows would establish
revolving funds for additional lamp purchases/distribution. (The idea i s that the customers would be able
to pay for the lamps each month from the energy savings). Following this process, the replenishment
mechanism from the World Bank i s straightforward, that is, the Bank would disburse the GEF funds
based on the initial procurement of lamps. Based on the assessment of EVN and the PCs under the
SEER Project, it was concludedthat PCs would be capable of managing the reflow of funds and would
record separately accounting transactions and maintain separate booWsupporting documents on that
revolving fund. These accounts would be reviewed and monitored by the Bank team during supervision
missions. Options for usingthe remainingbalances inthe revolving funds at the end of the project period
would be discussed and agreed at Project Negotiations. (See Figure A5-1 for a proposed flow chart for
the CFL program.)



                     GEF                 Grant
                                      Agreement'        State Bankof Vietnam

                                                             Subsidiary GrantAgreement




                      I            CFL Suppliers
                                                i
                                                / CFLs
                       I PCs, VWU, provincial                      authorities        t--I  Repayments
                                                j                         A               I
                                                . CFLs




                                                               ~~




     ProgramProcedures:
         1. EVNprocuresbulk quantity of C a s anddistributes them to PCs, VWU, provincial authorities, etc.
         2. CFLs are sold at declining subsidy levels and/or financed through electricity billdother mechanism.
         3.  Energy end-users pay for cost of lamps upfront or financed over 6-12 months.
         4. Repaymentsto EVNare then usedto procure additional lamps for distribution.

For component (ii),o I would establish a Special Account at the central level to pay for eligible GEF-
                     M
supported project activities. In addition, M o I will use a portion of the grant for subproject grants to be
administered by a commercial bank (Administrative Unit or AU). M o Ihas selected an AU to receive and
review applications, approve subproject grants (for services and goods) and certify disbursements. A
competitive process was followed for selection of the AU, which included eligibility criteria such as

                                                       -48 -


compliance with SBV regulations, solvency, liquidity, profitability, human resources quality.               An
assessment of the financial management systems and controls will be completed by Project Negotiations,
after which an Administrative Agreement between M o I and the AU will be finalized. (See Figure A5-2
for a proposed flow chart for MoI's program.)

        Figure A5-2. Flow of Fundsfor MoI's Pilot Commercial Energy Efficiency Program

                                         Grant
                                      Agreement'         State Bank of Vietnam


                       Payment authorization                               f
                                                          Ministry of Industry
          I,              4                  ,Sub-grant certijication     A I  Admin Agreement
             Special Account                 I          I.f               T -iI
                                                          Administrative Unit                  I
                            Sub-grants                                      ; Proposals
                           '~~
                           I                                                               I
                                                                            0
                                                           I ProgramAgent                  I




                                                                I End-User            I
    ProgramProcedures:
        1. Programagentfend-user agreeonanenergyaudit andsubmit anapplication to AU for registration.
        2. AU reviews for eligibility and approveslrejectsapplication.
        3.   Ifapproved,programagentconductsenergyaudit and submitsreport to AU.
        4. AUreview and approvehejectaudit report. Ifapproved, the AU certifies apartial audit grant (initially
             30%) to MoIfor payment from the Special Account directly to the programagent. Ifend-user agrees
            to implement the project, signs an MOUwith the program agent, and the project reaches financial
            closure, the remaining audit grant is issued.
        5.  Programagent helps end-user finalize project design, secures financing and implementsproject.
        6. Programagent and end-user submitcommissioning report to AU for review.
        7. AU review and approvehejectreport. If approved,AU issues investmentbonus (upto 20% of project
            investmentamount).

Staffing. Implementation of the DSM component under EVN would be the same PMB as the DSM
subcomponent under the SEER Project. EVN has created a Steering Committee consisting of 16
members from EVN, power companies and is headed by Mr. Tran Quoc Anh, Vice President of EVN.
This Committee will provide guidance, coordinate and supervise the implementation. The DSM Cell
under the Business Department will be the core implementing board for the D S M program under SEER
and this associated GEF Project. There are now five staff members in the DSM Cell who will directly
work on the project activities. For all accounting and financial management aspects, EVN (including the
PCs) has existing PMUs in charge of recording project transactions. These PMUs will continue their
roles under this GEF Project. The staffing of these PMUs has been assessedby IDA staff inrecent IDA-
supported projects, including Rural Energy and SEER. The IDA financial management team has found
EVN's staffing arrangementacceptable to afford the Bank`s minimumfiduciary requirements.

                                                  -49 -


For MoI, the PMB consists of seven staff members from different departments within MoI. It i s headed
by Mr.PhamManh Thang, Deputy Director of Planning and Investment Dept. All PMJ3s staff are part-
time. The PMB i s working under direction of the Inter-ministerial Project Steering Committee, consisting
12 members representing MoI, MPI, MOST,MoC and EVN. This Committee is headed by Mr. Hoang
Trung Hai, former Vice Minister of Industry (now Minister). The PMB staff have gained significant
experience in accounting and financial management from two ongoing Bank supervised trust funds (a
Swedish Sida grant TF#050554, formerly TF#022228, which was signed in May 1999 and a GEF-PPG
TF050064 for Preparation of the GEF Vietnam Demand-Side Management and Energy Efficiency
Project). Accounting staff of the PMB will still continue to implement this GEF project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. No changes from what was assessed under the SEER Project
have beenmade (please refer to FMassessment for SEER).

External Audit.     The PMUs in EVN and M o I will prepare project financial statements for their
respective components in GEF project and have those project financial statements audited following
current Bank guidelines. The audit reports must be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.

Reporting and Monitoring. Annual project financial statements will be prepared following current
practice of SEER.       For periodic project monitoring purposes, the project will use the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) developed by the World Bank and will be tailored to meet practical
monitoring requirement of the project. EVNand M o I will use the FMR format used in SEER project for
this GEFproject and this will be agreedupon duringnegotiation. The PMUinEVNand PMB inM o Iwill
submit to the World Bankthe FMRs on aquarterly basis.

                                                      - 50 -

                                      Annex 5B: Financial Summary
              VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project

FinancialAnalysis and Summary

As noted previously, the project will result in substantial economic and financial benefits for Vietnam, in
terms of reduced and delayed investment requirements in new power sector capacity, eased infrastructure
bottlenecks, decreased buildinglfactory operating costs and corresponding increased productivity and
competitiveness, increased commercial activity, decreased dependency on imported and domestic fossil
fuels, and improved environmentally sustainable economic development. As such, these investments
represent financially viable alternatives to the current systems and represent win-win opportunities for the
power sector, end-users, and society as a whole.

EVN. A detailed financial analysis for the DSMinvestments was conducted to assess the viability of the
proposed programs. The analysis accounted for the total cost of the investment program including
supporting activities such as load research, DSM planning, staffing and technical assistance, as well as
forgone or lost revenues from decreased power sales by EVN and its PCs as a direct result of the
programs. Duringthe screening of potential DSM programs to be implementedunder the project, efforts
were made to maximize peak load reduction benefits to EVN while minimizing potential revenue losses
during off-peak and low load times. These costs were then compared with the total projected benefits
expected to accrue to EVN, in terms of avoided costs of supply during peak periods, shifting of loads to
off-peak and low load periods, and delayed investment for additional generation and transmission
capacity. The analysis was conducted based on the principles of avoided costs, that i s DSM costs are
compared with the alternative least-cost supply option. (This type of analysis i s referred to as a DSM
Utility Cost Test in North America, where the net costs of DSM as a resource option based on costs
incurred by the utility are measured against the avoided costs of supply.) Thus, for the purpose of the
analysis, the avoided costs are based on the constructionand operation costs for a peaking plant, which in
Vietnam i s assumed to be a gas turbine plan with amortized costs of US$54/kW/year and 7.82 USc$/kWh
at the generation level. Long run marginal costs of supply used for the analysis include 3.904 USc$/kWh
at the generation level, 5.166 US$/kWh at the 110 kV level and 9.373 USc$/kWhbelow 6 kV. Losses are
assumed to be 5 percent for transmission and 10 percent for distribution. For the load shifting programs,
such as TOU metering, a price elasticity of 20 percent was used and an escalating percentage of
customers relying on self-generation during peak periods (10-20 percent) was used to make the analysis
more conservative.

As noted in Annex 4, the overall project benefits are 120.5 MW inpeak load reduction and total energy
savings of about 496 GWh at a total project cost of US$8.22 million. Analyses were conducted from
various perspectives, including EVN, the PCs, the end-users and society as a whole. The results of the
benefitkost analysis for the D S Mprograms (including supportingactivities) are summarized inTable A5-
1. As shown, the NPV to EVN for an investment of US$8.22 million is over US$76 million, which
representsa substantial benefit to EVN. This result i s reasonable, given the highsupply costs experienced
by EVNduringpeak periods, the correspondingly low tariffs, particularly inrural households, and the low
system load factor. While the NPV to the PCs i s substantially less, a recent decision to establish time-of-
day bulk tariffs and further rationalize electricity tariffs will boost the DSM benefits to the PCs. Finally,
the perspective of the customer i s very good, indicating that the programs are beneficial and cost-effective
to the customers as well, offing a clear win-win opportunity for all.          The overall analysis, which
represents the government or societal benefits, have a NPV of over US$80 million indicating a clear and
overall positive impact on the economy. With the quantification of environmental externalities into the
set of assumptions, the benefit-cost ratios would be even higher. Issues that also contribute to the overall

                                                      -51 -


benefits to EVNbut are not captured in these analyses include improved customer service, mitigation of
ongoing tariff increases, social considerations inrural areas, reducedfuel imports, etc.


                    Perspective                      Economic Analysis (inUSDmillion)
                                              Benefits        I    costs       I    NPV     I B/Cratio
            EVN(Financial)                       96.39             19.50            76.89        4.9
            PCs(Financial)                       27.95             21.77             6.18         1.3
          I National
            Customers (Financial)                21.17              2.57            18.60         8.2
                      (Economic)           I     88.56        I     7.82       I    80.74   I    11.3
AssumRtions: Ave. BST for all PCs 3.33 US#/kWh, economic BST of 5.17 US#/kWh, ave. retail tariff of 3.33
US#/kWh, discount rates of 10 percent (economic) and 7 percent (financial), 10 percent VAT, exchange rate of
US$l.OO = 15,000 VND.

MoI. For the pilot commercial EE program, no separate financial analysis was conducted, since the
major source of program funding would be provided by the GEF grant. However, a full incrementalcosts
analysis of this component was conducted and i s summarized in Annex 4. The program i s designed to
require that each subproject be cost-effective on its own since the project would need to be packaged and
sold to the customer on purely commercial terms and supported through commercial service and
financing agreements.     As such, a review of potential subprojects was conducted during project
preparation work supported by the GEF PDFB grant. The market and subproject analyses was based on
a series of load research reports by EVN, EVN sales and billing data, review of several previously
conducted energy audits, over 20 interviews with existing and potential project agents, and initiation of
over 20 new walk-through audits ina range of customer classes.


                Figure A5-3. Investment versus Simple Payback on a Site-by-Site Basis


                                                   8 6 x CStar Hotels
                                                   m 1 x 4-star Hotel
                                                     4 x 3-Star Hotels
                                                   A 5 x Commerclal & Office Buildlngs
                                                     1 x ResidentialApartment complex
                                                   A 3 x Food ProcesslngPlants            A
                                                   02 x Water PumplngStations
                                                             I


                            A                        0       l  A


                                               A


                             8
                                     8
                      8

         A   *
                A
                                   Note: ?ewater PumpingStatlonnot shown: USd650Investment e3.25~


       0              50               100                150                  200              250
                                    Investment by Site (US$k)

Source: ERMEnergy / IIEC on-site audits inVietnam, April 2002.

Based on the analyses, it has been concluded that there are a number of opportunities to make small,
simple and replicable investments in EE improvements in the target markets. Figure A5-3, shows the

                                                                   - 52 -


relationship between investment and simple payback from the audited sites on an individual whole-site
basis. This shows a large range of investment potential from small projects up to US$250,000 projects,
concentrated for the most part between one and four year simple payback periods on a whole-site average
basis. Figure A5-4 shows the relationshipbetween investment and simple payback from the audit sites on
an individual measure basis, set on axes of the same scale as Figure A5-3. From these figures, it is clear
that many of the opportunities are relatively small-scale, with most clustered in the sub-US$50,000 range
and a number inthe sub-US$lO,OOO range and many of these are available at attractive paybacks of below
2.5 years. As expected, the payback periods are more widely distributed than in the site-averaged case,
ranging from near immediate payback opportunities up to a few of beyondfive years. Furthermore, many
of the measures are similar or essentially the same from site to site, indicating the opportunities for
replication of several technology improvements.

Figure A5-5 presents the individual measuresidentified inthe on-site audits inascending order of simple
payback periods. This figure shows that (i)                 the investment potential from the audit sites for measures
with a payback of up to five years i s about US$2.8million; (ii)                      this investment can be divided into three
blocks: low cost quick payback measures below the median payback of 2.5 years, a mid-range of
measures with paybacks between 2.5 and 3.5 years, and some longer payback measures; (iii)                           a number of
low cost maintenance measures with paybacks of less than one year were identified; (iv) about
US$750,000 of investment opportunities with under a 2 year simple payback were identified; (v) about
US$1,750,000 of investment opportunities were found at 2-3 years simple payback; (vi) about
US$250,000 of investment opportunities at between 3-5 years simple payback were identified; (vii) the
median simple payback across all US$2.8million of investment opportunities identified i s 2.5 years, and
the mean i s 2.6 years. As electricity tariffreforms continue, these financial retums will improve further.


          Figure A5-4. Investmentversus Simple Payback on a Measure-by-Measure Basis

                                                                               + Elec: maintenancePrograms

                                                                               0 Elec: llghtlngMeasures
                                                                       I         Elec: hlghefflclencymotor

                                                                               A ElectricityVSD measures
                                                                               - Elec: automaticcondenser cleanlng

                                                                               x Elec: other measures
                                                  A                     L
                                                                               0 Diesel:Ail Measures
                                                                A
                                                                                 Coal: all measures


                                                              A        I    -     Replicableretrofltprojects
                                                                                  on a largerscale

                                     Small, simp1 repllcableretrofits
                                     availableat ractlvepaybacks       '
         +Maintenancemeasuresand
               very low cost retroflts                  Off the scale: VSDcontroller: US$65OklnvestmentB3.25~
                                                                                             I

      0                  50                    100                   150                  200                250
                                         lnvestmentby Measure (US$k)

Source: ERMEnergyI IIEC on-siteaudits inVietnam, April 2002.

                                                        - 53 -


       Figure A5-5. Cumulative Investmentversus Simple Payback on a Single Measure Basis

      5 -


                                                                                  -US$250k
                                                                                  of slower
  h
  *4 -  --
                                                                                   payback
  v
  u -                                                                             measures
  .-0
  2     .

      3 --
  Y     -
  m
  0                                                -US$1750k of mid-rangemeasures
  n     -.
  -n2E2 :                                  medlanpayback2 . 5 ~


  Q     -
        :
  iij 1 -


                    -USS750k Of
          quick paybackmeasures
        I

       0                         1000                          2 000                         3 000
                              Cumulative Individual MeasureCost (US$k)

Source: ERh4Energy I IIEC on-site audits inVietnam, April 2002.

Interms of project financing sources, there are severaldifferent possible sourcesthat couldbeconsidered.
These would include customer self-financing, vendor (project agent) financing, commercial financing
(bank loan or lease) or a combination of all of these. Table A5-2 summarizes some of the common
financing options used inother countries for similar projects and their main characteristics.

                                       Table A5-2. Financing Options
  Financing        Balance         Initial          Payments          Ownership            Tax      Performance
    Option           Sheet       Payment                                               Deductions       Risk
Cashpurchase           On        Percentage       Progressor all         Client        Depreciation    Client
                                                    at delivery
Loan                   On      Downpayment             Fixed             Client      Depreciation &    Client
                                                                                          interest
Capital lease          On           None               Fixed             Client      Depreciation &    Client
                                                                                          interest
Operating lease        Off          None               Fixed             Lessor            Lessor      Lessor
Performance            Off          None            Variable or        Contractor       Contractor   Contractor
contract                                               fixed

At present, it is expected that the bulk (50-60percent) of all subprojects supported under the project will
be financed from vendor financing provided or arranged by the project agent. Other sources are expected
to include customer self-financing (about 20-30 percent) and banksfleasing (10-30 percent). As the
markets further develop and more sophisticated mechanisms, such as greater use of leasing, performance
contracts, etc. a wider range of financing i s expected. Also, as the banking sector reforms deepen and
commercial lending becomes more prevalent, greater use of conventional financing options i s anticipated.

                                                      -54-


                     Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
              VIETNAM: Demand-SideManagement & Energy Efficiency Project


Procurement

All goods procured financed by the GEF grant shall be procured in accordance with the World Bank
Group's Procurement Guidelines ("Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). All consulting
services to be financed under the GEF grant shall be selected in accordance with the World Bank
Consultant Guidelines ("Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers," January 1997, revisedSeptember 1997,January 1999 and May 2002). Specific procurement
arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Table B provides the thresholds for procurement
methods and prior review, and Table C provides the allocation of Grant proceeds.

                         Table A. Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements

                                                       ProcurementMethodl
      Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB        Other2            N.B.F.     Total Cost
   1. Goods                              0.50             0.30        7.45             0.00         8.25
   (GEF-financed)                       (0.50)           (0.30)       (0.80)          (0.00)        (1.60)
   2. Services                           0.00             0.00        4.08             0.00         4.08
   (GEF-financed)                       (0.00)           (0.00)       (3.82)          (0.00)        (3.82)
   3. Training                           0.00             0.00        0.08             0.00         0.08
   (GEF-financed)                       (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.08           (0.00)        (0.08)
   4. NBF                                0.00             0.00         0.00            0.96         0.96

      Total                              0.50             0.30        11.60            0.96         13.36
   (GEF-financed)                       (0.50)           (0.30)       (4.70)          (0.00)        (5.50)
   Votes:
      1. All costs includecontingencies. Figures inparenthesisare the amounts to be financedby the GEF grant.
      2. Other procurement methods includeinternational shoppingandcommercial practices(for goods),
          selection of consultants(see Table Al), and training.
      3. This table does not includethe procurementplanfor the associatedUS$5.2 million IDA credit, which i s
          includedinthe SEER PAD.

Procurement of Goods. As summarized in Table A, the total cost of goods i s estimated at US$8.25
million, of which only US$1.60million would be financed under the GEF grant. Procurement of compact
fluorescent lamps (CFLs) by EVN under component IC             would be conducted in 1-2 lots using ICB
(US$500,000 total) and 3-6 smaller lots usingNCB (under US$lOO,OOOeach). For component 2, several
sets of audit equipment (US$130,000) would be procured usinginternational shopping (under US$50,000
each); one set procuredeach year of the project, basedon the changing demands for such equipment. The
remaining grant funds (US$671,000) would be used to support about 210 subproject investment grants
(ranging from US$ l,OOO-30,000) under Component 2B and, as with other financial intermediation
operations, procurement of goods would follow commercial practices.

Procurementof Consulting Services. The aggregate amount of consulting services is US$4.08 million
over 4 years, of which US$3.82 million would be financed by the GEF grant. For Component 1 under
EVN, assignments would include marketing contracts, equipment testing, a business opportunities study,
monitoring and evaluation services, program management and reporting and DSM advisors (US$1.42
million). The larger contracts for the monitoring and evaluation and business opportunities study would
use QCBS, the fluorescent tube marketing would use SFB and the remaining, smaller contracts would

                                                    - 5 5 -


follow the CQ selection method. Component 2 under M o I would involve assignments including training
program development and delivery, customized technical assistance, training and marketing advisors,
program marketing and monitoring contractors, and feasibility studies for future phases (US$ 1.92
million). QCBS would be used for the training program development and advisory services, program
marketing, monitoring and evaluation and feasibility studies for future phases; services by the AU would
use SFB; and the remaining, smaller contracts would follow the CQ selection method. The remaining
grant funds (US$480,000) would be used to support about 210 subproject audit grants (ranging from
US$l,OOO-8,000) under Component 2B of the Projectfor which selection will follow commercial practice
acceptable to IDA (see additional description below). These procedures will also be detailed in the
Operations Manual, which i s a condition of Project Effectiveness. A summary of procurement methods
and prior review thresholds can be found inTables A1 and B.

Training. The project budget also includes US$75,000to support training activities of EVN's DSMCell
and MoI's DSM PMB staff. Technical assistance and advisory services will be provided to each agency
under the planned consulting assignments and each of these contracts will include a task to identify
training requirements for PMB staff. Thereafter, each agencies will be required to prepare an overall
training plan (for the full project period) duringthe first year of the project for Bank review and approval
by December 31,2003 and updated annually thereafter.

Commercial Arrangements for Component 2. Since the objectives of the project are to establish
demonstrated commercial business models for EE, Component 2 has been designed to support a fully
commercial approach. However, inorder to ensure a highlevel of technical competence and professional
service, some basic safeguards will be in place. Each year of the project, M o I will request, through
national advertisements, interested project agents to submit their basic qualifications to ensure that (i)
                                                                                                         the
company has been legally registered in Vietnam for at least a year; (ii)     the company has demonstrated
technical competence in areas relevant to EE; and (iii)   the company has qualified personnel to participate
inthe programtraining anddevelop quality EEaudits and investment proposals. These screening criteria
will be used to establish a long list of project agents eligible to participate in the program. In addition,
each project agent must complete the basic training courses to ensure their full understanding of technical
and financial issues related to EE projects. Lists of qualified agents and training participants would be
furnished to the AU by M o I periodically. Thereafter, it will be up to each pre-qualified project agent to
identifyhecruit potential customers, sell their services on purely commercial grounds and submit joint
proposals for the program. Since the program would provide energy audit grants for acceptable quality
auditdfeasibility studies, the AU would assess these documents based on their technical merits and, if
found to be of acceptable quality, payment would be made to the project agent. Thus, while selection of
the project agent for the purposes of the energy audit services would follow commercial practices (i.e., it
i s up to each customer to select the agent for the audit), the program would include the pre-qualification
measures noted above to ensure that project agents meet some basic qualifications.

Once the energy audit i s completed and approved by the AU, then the project agents and their customers
would proceed with arranging for the necessary project financing and detailed implementation plans for
the EEinvestment. Procurement of all goods and related service (e.g., detailed design work, installation,
commissioning/testing, equipment tendering, etc.) required to implement the project would follow normal
commercial practices, ie., 2-3 quotations from suitable suppliers. However, it should be noted that a
number of potential project agents are likely to be suppliers of energy-efficient equipment and, thus, they
should not be disqualified from also being an equipment supplier subject to agreement by the customer.
Since the customer would select the project agent based on their qualifications and reputation, and still
has to approve the final project design and equipment specifications, it must be up to the customer and
their agent to determine the most suitable equipment specifications for the project. Also, since the
customer will be left with the equipment at the end of the project and obligated to repay all project
financing costs, they will have a keen interest in ensuring high quality, and competitively priced,

                                                      - 56 -


equipment and supporting services. Once the project has been completed and commissioned, the project
agent and customer would submit a second application to the AU for review and, if found to be
acceptable, an investment bonus grant (ranging from 20 percent of the total project cost in Year 1to 5
percent in Year 4) would be issued to the project agent. Thus, the customer would be requiredto provide
a minimumof 80 percent equity or secure financing for the project which helps ensure full ownership of
the project. In addition, the investment bonus would only be disbursed after the project i s complete,
ensuring that ineligible projects are not supported with the grant funds.


    I                       Table Al. Consulting Selection Arrangements
      Consultant Services      1
      Expenditure Category                             SelectionMethod
                                  QCBS           SFB          CQ          Other        NBF          Total
      A. Firms                     2.18          0.81        0.43         0.48                       3.91
      (GEF-financed)              (2.03)        (0.76)      (0.40)       (0.48)                     (3.66)
      B. Individuals                                                      0.18                       0.18
      (GEF-financed)                                                     (0.16)                     (0.16)
      Total                        2.18          0.81        0.43         0.66                       4.08
      (GEF-financed)              (2.03)        (0.76)      (0.40)       (0.64)                     (3.82)




Agency Capacity Assessment. A Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR) was conducted in October
2001 and a recent procurement assessment was conducted for EVN and M o I for the associated SEER
Project. A supplemental assessment for this project was conducted and the details of these assessments
are available inthe "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement" reports which
are available in the Project file. For NCB procurement, provisions in EVN's internal guidelines have
been found to be inconsistent with IDA requirements, due to nondisclosure of detailed bid evaluation
criteria and price ceilings to bidders prior to bidding. Thus, a side letter will be required by IDA to ensure
that GOV complies with all applicable IDA procurement guidelines for this project.

Overall procurement risks are rated as average, because the procurement processing for this operation i s
relatively simple and bothEVNand M o Ihave conducted similar procurement inprevious IDA operations
and trust fund projects following Bank guidelines. A modest training budget will also be made available
to support any required supplemental procurement training for the PMBs and all Terms of Reference for
consulting services will be subject to prior review to further mitigate risks.

Institutional Arrangements. For Component 1, EVN's DSM Cell would be responsible for all
procurement for goods and consulting services. The DSM Cell, locatedunder the Business Development
Department of EVN, has five full-time technical staff and was assessed and found to be fully capable of
carrying out all aspects of procurement, including preparation of advertisements and requests for
expressions of interest, development of detailed bidding documents and Terms of Reference, evaluation
reports and contract negotiations/awards. EVN also has a department dedicated to procurement that will
have prior review responsibilities for all DSM Cell procurement plans, biddingdocuments, bid evaluation
reports and proposed contract awards for larger and more technically complex packages.                   This
procurement department of EVN i s among the most experienced in procurement-related matters in

                                                    - 57 -


Vietnam and has extensive experience in several previous IDA and trust fund projects following Bank
guidelines. All contract awards will be subject to approval by EVN's management.

For Component 2, MoI's DSM PMB also has experience with previous technical assistance projects
supported with Recipient-executed trust funds under the supervision of the Bank (e.g., TF
#022228/050554, 050064). With seven part-time staff experienced with Bank procurement guidelines,
the PMB will maintain full responsibility for all advertising, bidding document and Terms of Reference
preparation, evaluation reports and contract negotiationdawards. M o I has agreed to have one PMB staff
dedicated to the project full-time to coordinate project procurement and other work. As with EVN, all
contract awards are subject to approval by MoI's management.                 For both components, careful
consideration to appropriate packing of consulting services has been done to maximize overall economy
and efficiency.

Further actions have been agreed to strengthen each agency's capacity for the procurement-related aspects
of the project. These include (i)  M o Iwill assign one full-time staff to coordinate all project procurement;
(ii) theDSMCellunderEVNandtheDSMPMBunderMoIwillengageinadditionalprocurement
    both
training offered by the Bank and periodic workshops to exchange experience with Bank procurement
procedures and lessons learned (as part of training plan noted previously); (iii)       M o I will develop an
Operations Manual, which will include a section on procurement for Component 2 by Project
Effectiveness; (iv) EVN and M o I will consider decentralization of responsibilities to the DSM Cell and
DSM PMB to maximize efficiency and reduce redundant approvals for smaller contracts; and (v) prior
and ex-post reviews will be conducted, as noted below, to help strengthen understanding of Bank
guidelines and identify and correct potential deviations from agreedprocedures.

Thresholds for Prior Review. All contracts for goods of US$150,000 or more, as well as the first NCB
and IS contracts, will be subject to the Bank's prior review. All consulting service Terms of Reference
will be subject to the Bank`s prior review. Prior review for procurement i s required for contracts with
firms valued at US$lOO,OOO or more, and for contracts with individuals valued at US$50,000 or more.
For contracts with firms below US$lOO,OOO, the first two contracts from each PMB (EVNand MoI) will
be subject to prior Bank review and approval; for contracts with individuals less than US$50,000, the first
two contracts will be subject to prior Bank review and approval. (See Table B, below.)


    Expenditure     Contract Threshold       Procurement          Contracts Subject to Prior Review
      Category           (USD `000)              Method                       (USD million)
    Goods                    >=loo                ICB             All contracts $0.15 and over ($0.50)

                              >=50                NCB                      Firstcontract ($0.05)

                              4 0                   I S                    Firstcontract ($0.05)
    Services            >=lo0 (firms)          QCBS, FB                         All ($3.00)

                         4 0 0 (firms)           SBCQ           First2contracts fromeachPMB ($0.18)

                       n.a. (individuals)           IC                       >50 All ($0.05)
                                                                       4 0 first 2 contracts ($0.08)
    Total Value of Contracts Subject to Prior Review                               $3.91
                                                                    (67% or $3.66 of the GEF grant)

Post Review. At least one infive contracts will be subject to post review by the Bank team.

Frequency of Supervision Missions. Supervision missions will be conducted once every six months for
the entire project period.

                                                                - 5 8 -


Disbursement

The GEF grant would be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for goods; (b) 75 percent of local expenditures procured locally; (c)
50-100 percent of eligible subproject energy audit costs (on declining based on project year) and 5-20
percent of eligible subproject investment costs (also on a declining basis by project year); (d) 100percent
of expenditures for consulting services for foreign individuals, 93 percent of expenditures for consulting
services for foreign f i s , local firms and local individuals; and (e) 100 percent for training. These are
summarized in Table C, below. For any revolving funds established by EVN to support its DSM
programs, initial disbursements would be against the procurement of goods, such as CFLs. As the goods
are sold, the payments would then be used to capitalize the revolving fund mechanism. Thus no initial
disbursement to set-up any revolving funds would be required.

The estimated annual disbursements for the project i s shown in the Project FinancingData on page 1and
detailed in the EVN and M o IProject Implementation Plans (available in the Project file). Disbursements
are expected to begin inthe thirdquarter of 2003 and be completed inthe secondquarter of 2007.

                                               r   le C. Allocation of Gr it Proceeds
        Expenditure Category                       Lmount(US$ million)                FinancingPercentage
       Goods                                              $0.93             100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                                                 -   -
                                                                            100%of local expenditures (ex-
                                                                                 factory costs)
                                                                           75% of local expenditures
       _Sublroject_ _ _grants_ _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _
        _Energy_ _Audits_ _ _
         _ _  _ _       _                                 $1.15

                 FY04-05                                                    100%of eligible energy audit cost
                  FY06                                                     75% of eligible energy audit cost
                  FY07                                                     _50%_ _of_ _eligible- _energy_ _audit_ _cost_ _ _ _ _ - _ _
                                                                            _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _- - _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
         Investments
                 FY04-05                                                   20% of eligible subproject cost
                  FY06                                                      10%of eligible subproject cost
                  FY07                                                     5% of eligible subproject cost
       Consultant Services                                $3.34             100%of foreign individuals
                                                                            93% of foreign f i s , local firms and
                                                                                 local individuals
       Training                                           $0.08                                   100%
       Total                                              $5.50
       es:
         1. Eachfiscal year would begin inJuly 1of that year andendJune 30 of thefollowing year.
        2. The dates indicated represent the datethe withdrawal application i s receivedby the Bank.

Use of Statements of Expenditures. For goods costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract;
services provided by consulting f m s costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; services
provided by individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract; training activities
costing less than US$50,000; withdrawals from the Grant would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures.

Special Accounts.         To facilitate disbursements under the Grant, one Special Account would be
established for each of the implementing agencies with authorized allocations as follows: (i)                            US$200,000
to EVN; and (ii)   US$300,000 for MoI. Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly
basis or whenever the amounts withdrawn equal 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes fist.

                                              - 5 9 -


                              Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
            VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project



Project Schedule                                              Planned                       Actual

Time taken to prepare the project (months)              14                            30
FirstBankmission (identification)                      December 2000                  December 2000
Appraisal mission departure                            December 2001                  October 2002
Negotiations                                           March 2002                     M a y 2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          July 2002                      September 2003


   Prepared by:
   Ministry of Industry (MoI) and Electricity of Vietnam (EVN)

   Preparation assistance:
   Bankmissionsandconsultants

   Bankstaffwho worked on the projectincluded:
       Name                                              Speciality
Jas Singh                                  Energy Efficiency Specialist
PhamNguyetAnh                              Operations Officer
DilipLimaye                                Senior D S M Specialist (Consultant)
Peter Bassett                              Senior EEMarketDevelopment Specialist (Consultant)
Hung Viet Le                               Financial Management Specialist
M e i Wang                                 Legal Counsel
Hung KimPhung                              Senior Finance Officer
Thang Chien Nguyen                         Senior Procurement Specialist
Ani1Malhotra                               Regional Energy Advisor
Barry Trembath                             Lead Power Engineer, Procurement Specialist

                                        - 60 -


                       Annex 8: Documentsinthe Project File*
        VIETNAM:Demand-SideManagement & Energy Efficiency Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan
1. EVNProjectImplementationPlan
2. M o IProject ImplementationPlan

B. BankStaff Assessments
1. Preparation MissionAide Memoires
2. Assessment of Agencies' Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
3. Financial Assessment for SEIER Project
4. System Energy Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables (SEIER) Project
   Appraisal Document
5. GEF Project Brief

C. Other Reports
1. DSMAssessment for Vietnam, Hagler Bailly
2. Phase2 D S MInvestmentProposal, EVN
3. Financial Analyses for EVND S MPrograms
4. IncrementalCost Analysis for Project
5. Draft Business Plan for Pilot Commercial Energy Efficiency Program, ERM

*Including electronic files

                                                        -61 -


                               Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
              VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project

                                                       21-May-2003
                                                                                            Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                     andactual
                                                         Original Amount inUS$Millions            disbursementsa
Project ID FY  Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA                 Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  FrmRev'd

PO44803    2003 VN-PRIMARY EDUC FOR                       0.00     138.76                 0.00    141.13    0.00       0.00

PO51838    2002 DISADVANTEGED CHI                         0.00      19.84                 0.00     20.32    3.26       0.00

PO59936    2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER                        0.00     110.00                 0.00    117.02   15.80       0.00

PO66396    2002 DEVELOPMENT                               0.00     225.00                 0.00    246.91    8.96       0.00

PO73305    2002 NorthemMountains Poverty Reduction        0.00     38.20                  0.00     41.61    6.13       0.00

PO72601    2002 VN-SYSTEM ENERGY, EQUITIZATION            0.00     200.00                 0.00    211.70  -10.00       0.00

PO42927    2001 &RENE                                     0.00     110.00                 0.00    112.33   60.28       0.00

PO52037    2001 VN-RegionalBloodTransfusion Centers       0.00     166.34                 0.00    169.78    7.51       0.44

PO62748    2001 Rural FinanceI1Project                    0.00     102.78                 0.00    108.79    -3.11      0.00

PO56452    2000 VN-Mekong TransportlFlood Protection      0.00     150.00                 0.00     86.36   68.79       0.00

PO42568    2000 VN-HCMC ENVMTLSANIT.                      0.00      31.80                 0.00     29.09   19.45       0.00

PO59864    2000 COMMUNITY BASED RURAL                     0.00     103.90                 0.00     54.17   19.83       0.00

PO04833    1999 INFRASTRUCTURE                            0.00      42.70                 8.19     22.72   30.57       0.00

PO51553    1999 VN-RURAL ENERGY                           0.00      80.50                 0.00     68.39   27.79       0.00

PO04828    1999 COASTALWetmot Dev                         0.00      83.30                 0.00     65.94   43.83      13.21

PO04845    1999 VN-Rural TransportI1                      0.00     101.80                 0.00     84.07   69.20       0.00

PO04843    1998 VN-Urban TransportImprovement             0.00      73.00                 0.00     54.96   53.13      13.88

PO04839    1998 VN-3 CITIES SANITATION                    0.00      21.50                 0.00     17.82    14.56      4.86

PO04844    1998 VN-HIGHER EDUC.                           0.00      66.90                 0.00     35.63    14.81      2.72

PO45628    1998 MEKONG DELTA WATER                        0.00     199.00                 0.00    138.13   136.26     133.27

PO04830    1997 VN-Inland Waterways                       0.00      98.61                31.28     19.80   56.04       2.99

PO04842    1997 FORESTPROT.& RULDE                        0.00     195.60                 0.00     21.89   36.54      31.44

PO04841    1996 AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                      0.00      50.00                 0.00      4.36     8.65      0.00

PO04838    1996 VN-TRANSMISSION & DISTR                   0.00     101.20                 0.00     39.57   48.01       0.00

PO36042    1996 VN-WATER SUPPLY                           0.00      49.00                 0.00     24.89   29.10      29.09

PO04834    1995 VN-Hwy Rehab I1                           0.00     100.00                 0.00     14.26   25.19      25.23

                VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH

                VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT

                BANKINGSYSTEM MODERNIZATION

                IRRIGATIONREHABILIT                    -
                                                 Total:   0.00    2659.73                39.47   1951.66 790.59       257.14

                                               - 62 -


                                              VIETNAM
                                         STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                       Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                             Jun30 2002
                                                     -
                                          InMillions USDollars

                                                    Committed                    Disbursed
                                                    IFC                          IFC
FY Approval   Company                      Loan Equity       Quasi Partic Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2002          CyberSoft                     0.00     1.25     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00
2002          F-V Hospital                  8.00     0.00     0.00   0.00  5.10   0.00   0.00 0.00
1998          MFLVinhPhat                   0.15     0.00     0.00   0.00  0.15   0.00   0.00 0.00
1996          Mom.Star Cement              21.54     0.00     0.00  42.47 21.54   0.00   0.00 42.47
1997          NATL                         16.80     0.00     0.00  16.80 16.80   0.00   0.00 16.80
1995197       NghiSonCement                19.12     0.00     0.00  15.24 19.12   0.00   0.00 15.24
2001          RMIT Vietnam                  7.25     0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00
1996          SMHGlassCo.                   7.22     0.00     0.00   1.69  7.22   0.00   0.00  1.69
2002          VEIL                          0.00     0.00    12.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   6.00  0.00
1996          VILC                          0.00     0.75     0.00   0.00  0.00   0.75   0.00  0.00
                         Total Portfolio:  80.08     2.00    12.00  76.20 69.93   0.75   6.00 76.20




                                                Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                        Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic
2000          Interflour                        8.00      0.00      0.00    5.00
2002          AZIAGF Vietnam                    0.00      0.00      1.50    0.00
2002          DragonCapital                     0.00      2.00      0.00    0.00
2002          F-V Hospital                       1.50     0.50      0.00    0.00
              Total PendingCommitment:          9.50      2.50      1S O    5.00

                                                                         - 63 -


                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
          VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management & Energy Efficiency Project

                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                   East
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                 Asia &        Low-
                                                                     Vietnam      Paclflc     Income        Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                                           78.7      1,826        2,511                     Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                        420        900           430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                          33.4      1,649        1,069                           T
Average annualgrowth, 1995-01
Population(%)                                                             1.5        1.1          1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                            1.7        1.3          2.3       GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                            Per                                     primary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                        capita                                nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                           32
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                                     25          37           31
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                            69          69           59
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                                      37          36           76
                                                                                                                    -
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder51                                     34          12                           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                        56          74           76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                           6         14           37
Grossprimaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                       110         107           96                      Vietnam
    Male                                                                 113         106          103                       Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                                107        108           88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1981            1991       ZOO0        2001           Economicratloe'
GDP (US$billions)                                                         9.6       31.2         32.7
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                                              15.0       29.6          30.9
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                                          32.6       55.0         54.7                          Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                                                 16.5       27.1          28.9
GrossnationalsavingdGDP                                                  16.9       31.4          32.2

Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                                -2.0         1.6          1.8
InterestpaymentdGDP                                                       0.3        0.9           1.1
TotaldebffGDP                                                           243.4       41.2          38.4
Total debt servicelexports                                                6.3        7.5           6.7
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                             35.7                                        1
Presentvalueof debffexports                                                          64.3
                                                                                                                             Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 1991-01                 2000       2001      2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                           4.9          7.7            6.8         6.8          7.0               -       Vietnam
GDP Der capita                                2.5          6.1            5.4         5.4          5.6                -       Low-incomeorouo
Exportsof goodsand services                              21 3            14.8         4.5
                                                                                                           EF-,
STRUCTUREOf the ECONOMY
                                                         1981            1991       2000         2001          Growthof InvestmentandGDP(%)
(77 of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  ..          23.839.5    24.536.7     23.637.8
Industry
    Manufacturing                                                        13.3        18.6         19.6         ,o
Services                                                     ....        36.7        38.9         38.6        1
Privateconsumption                                           ..          77.1        66.5         65.0               Be     97     s8      99     w     01
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                              6.3         6.4          6.2
Importsof goodsand services                                  ....        31.1        57.5         56.8                  -GDI            ' I O I G D P



(averageannualgrowth)                                 1981-91 199141                '00         2001      IGrowthof   exportsand Imports(%)                c
Agriculture                                                4.3            4.7         4.6          2.8
Industry                                                     ..           11.7       10.1         10.3
    Manufacturing                                            ..           12.1       11.7         11.3      3o

Services                                                     ,.           7.4         5.3          6.1      2o
                                                                                                              10
Privateconsumption                                                        11.1        3.1          4.5          0
Generalgovernment consumption                                            10.6         5.0          5.5               BB     97     sa      99     w      01
Grossdomesticinvestment                                                   18.6       10.1         10.5               -Expotts           *lmporIS
lmoortsof aoods and services                                 ........    29.1        27.3          2.3

Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
*Thediamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamnd will be incomplete.

                                                    - 64 -


                                                                                                                  Vietnam

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1981   1991     2000            lIoT
                                                                 2001
Domesticprices                                                              Inflation(%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                                82.7      -1.7     -0.4      20
ImplicitGDP deflator                           72.5       3.4      2.7
                                                                            10
Governmentfinance
("9 of GDP,includes currentgrants)                                           0

Currentrevenue                                 13.5      20.4     20.4     -10
Currentbudget balance                           0.0       4.5      4.3     1
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -2.8     -3.3               -GDP      deflator  l o ' C P l      I

TRADE                                                                                                                     1
                                        1981   1991     2000     2001
(US$milionsf                                                                Export and Import levels ( U S mlll.)
Total exports (fob)                           2,042    14,448   15,100
   Rice                                         225      667      588
   Fuel                                         581    3,503    3,175

Total imports(cif)                            2,377    15,635   16,000
   Food                                          82
   Fueland energy                               485    2,058     1,871                                                    1
   Capitalgoods                                 714

Exportpriceindex (7995=100)                                                          95  96   97     98    99     00    01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                                               Exports          Inports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991      2000     2001
(US$ mi//ions)                                                              Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goodsandservices                   2,491    17,144   17,910     1 6 -
Importsof goods andservices                   2,377    17,381   17,782
Resourcebalance                         -720    114      -237      128       0

Net income                               -72   -339      -597     -635
Net current transfers                     17     35     1,341    1,100       5

Current account balance                 -775   -190       507      593      -10
Financing items (net)                   534     472      -391     -268
Changes in net reserves                 241    -282      -116     -325

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ miliions)
Conversion rate (DEC,/oca/NS$)           0.6 7,979.2  14,170.0 14.806.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981   1991      2000     2001
(US$mi//ions)                                                                :omposition of 2001debt( U S mlll.)
Totaldebt outstandinganddisbursed         26 23,395    12,835   12,578
   iBRD                                    0      0         0        0
   IDA                                    19     58     1,113    1,344

Totaldebt service                          0    160     1,303    1,216
   IBRD                                    0      0         0        0
   IDA                                     0       1        9       10

Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                        104    126       236
   Officialcreditors                      19    -45     1,022      973
   Privatecreditors                        0     50      -717     -590
   Foreigndirect investment               18    229     1,298
   Portfolio equity                        0     10         0                                     E:6,961
World Bank program
   Commitments                             0      0       286      739       4                                E. Bilateral
   Disbursements                          17      0       174      279       3 -- IBRD  0 Othermultilateral
                                                                                         -                    F Private
   Principalrepayments                    0        1        2        2       >.IDAIMF                         G Short-term
                                                                                                                .-
   Net flows                              17     -1       173      277
   interestpayments                        0      0         8        8
   Nettransfers                           17     -1       165      268

                                                    -65 -


                           Annex 11: Vietnam Energy Efficiency Market
            VIETNAM: Demand-Side Management and Energy Efficiency Project


While overall energy consumption inVietnam i s not large by global standards today, it i s now the second
fastest growing economy worldwide and energy requirements are growing at staggering levels (10 - 15
percent annually). The Asia Least-Cost Greenhouse Gas Abatement Strategy Study (ALGAS) conducted
in 1994-6 concluded that the overall technical potential for end-useefficiency was about 180million toe
by 2010 at a cost far less than supply-side options. The DSM Assessment conducted in 1995-6 concluded
that EVN alone could achieve some 3.5 million toe in energy savings by implementing a portfolio of
DSM programs. Other studies have confirmed that there i s significant potential in various industrial sub-
sectors for energy intensity reductions through cost-effective energy efficiency (EE) improvements as
well as a focus on market transformation efforts in key end-uses. A summary of each key sector is
provided below.

The industrial sector, dominated by state-owned enterprises (SOEs), consumes over 40 percent of all
energy consumed in Vietnam (see Table A11-1)and, by all accounts, represents the sector with greatest
energy savings potential. Pilot audits conducted by MoSTE concluded that energy use could be reduced
by about 30 percent with equipment retrofits, with investment paybacks of only 3-5 years. Further
estimates indicate that EE improvements in the sector could save 700-840 thousand toe/yr (estimated
savings of US$37-47 million per year), with payback periods under 3 years. Within the sector, it was
estimated that savings of 50 percent could be achieved in the cement sector, 35 percent in the ceramics
industry, and 25 percent in power plants. A number of other donors, including Japan and France, have
supported industrial energy audits and found significant financially-viable investment opportunities for
energy saving, although no country- or sector-wide EE potential estimates were made. Other reports and
studies have confirmed that, given high equipment ages and out-dated technologies, there were indeed
significant savings potential and targeted equipment retrofits and replacements of energy-using
equipment, such as boilers, motors, energy managementlcontrol systems, etc. could have short payback
periods and highreturns. However, the sustainability of these renovations would be highly uncertain as
SOE reforms progress and these facilities are either modernized or shut down. Furthermore, many of
these SOEs were not financially-viable and, thus, would not be able to attract the necessary commercial
financing for these investments despite their potentially highreturns.

Energy use in the commercial and municipal sectors i s not a huge contributor to total consumptiontoday,
though its impact on the total demand i s expected to double over the next 10years due to an estimated 15
percent annual growth rate inhighrise buildingconstruction. While older buildingshave employed more
traditional design practices and have limited central air conditioning (and thus have had relatively low
energy use), newer buildings are expected to require substantially more energy to support modem comfort
and technology requirements. Much of the new buildingconstructioni s now being designed and financed
from non-domestic sources, often resulting in developers seeking to minimize construction costs and
reduce investment payback periods; thus opportunities for EE retrofits do exist. For buildings, lighting
will continue to dominate the energy savings opportunities in the short-term, though it i s estimated that
HVAC systems will surpass lightinguse inthis sector by 2010. This sector represents an attractive target
sector given the potential for simple and replicable retrofit projects with fairly creditworthy customers.
Hotels, in particular, represent a potentially attractive sub-sector, given their high energy consumption
and creditworthiness, although many of the newer hotels have employed reasonably efficient equipment
and practices.

The residential sector, while not a major energy user today, continues to dominate the peak demand,
accounting for over 65 percent. Given Vietnam's low per capita electricity consumption of only 309
kWh/yr and growing household electrification rate, about 75 percent of all households today, it is

                                                      - 66 -


expected that increased services to rural areas will be a focus of future IDA support which will further
increasethis sector's contributionsto EVN's peak demand over the next 5-10years. The major end-use i s
this sector is lighting,although it is projected that air conditioners, refrigerators and fans will also become
major contributors to overall demand in this sector as economic growth continues. Given the very low
per capita incomes in this sector and low prevailing electricity prices, promotion of energy saving
equipment has been severely constrained, despite cost-effective solutions.



                 Total Electricity Sales (GWh)                           11,185              25,843
                 Peak Demand (MW)                                        2,679               5,655
                 Sales by Sector (%)
                    Agriculture and Forestry                               5.6                2.1
                    Industry and Construction                            41.3                40.7
                    Service, Trade,and Public Facilities                   9.0                8.7
                    Residential                                          44.1                48.5
                 Average Consumption(kWhper capita)                      156.0               309.0

Commercial and Industrial Market

The commercial and industrial sectors in Vietnam currently consume approximately one-half of the total
electrical power demand. Total electrical power used in these sectors was about 11,800 GWh in 2001,
with about 78 percent consumed by the industrial sector, 20 percent from buildings (commercial and
government buildings, hotels, hospitals, schools) and about 2 percent from water processing facilities (see
Figure All-1). Energy demand in these sectors is also growing at a very rapid rate (10-15 percent per
year) as illustrated inFigure A11-2.

                    Figure All-1. Electric Power Consumption By Sub-sector (2001)

                                                             H o t e l s




                                                                         P u b l i c B Id g s




                                                           T e x tile
                                                            1 1 Yo

                                                    - 67 -


                          Figure All-2. Growth Rates inSelected Sub-Sectors

    16%
    14%
    12%
    10%
     8%
     6%
     4%
     2%
     0%
               Hotels     Largeoffice        Public       Water           Food        Textile
                           buildings       Buildings    Processing     processing                  lndustOtherries  I
Within the industrial sector, which is dominated by SOEs, certain export oriented sub-sectors such as
textile and food processing are growing profitably and quickly due to the strategic advantages Vietnam
possesses with respect to natural resources and low-cost labor. The buildings sector energy consumption,
while a relatively smaller percentage of overall energy consumption today, i s increasing rapidly as the
economy of Vietnam progresses and the demand for modem facilities and office space increase. Finally,
water processing i s keeping pace with increasing populationdemand and development.

Due to the emerging nature of the Vietnamese economy, the focus of industry and commercial
establishments historically has been on "growth," not "efficiency and conservation." However, with the
limited available investment capital and perceived risks associated with the transitional economy,
investors have often been more concerned to minimize expenditures when building and maintaining
facilities; the result being that they usually purchase lower cost, less efficient equipment. This has
resulted in a large base of existing facilities operating with inefficient equipment and this base of demand
represents a significant component of the total country energy demand. The technical opportunity for
saving energy consumption through efficiency retrofits in the creditworthy industrial and commercial
markets has been estimated (based on analysis in 2002) at 716 GWh per year, with savings within each
sector ranging from 8-11percent.

The combination of high growth rates, coupled with a large base of inefficient equipment, creates
conditions for substantial potential for efficiency retrofits. Other macro-economic factors affecting the
market for EE retrofits include: (a) trade liberalization which i s exposing Vietnamese industries to
increased global competition, and hence cost competitiveness, and easier access to imported modem
technologies; (b) future increases in electric power tariffs, which will make EE retrofits more financially
attractive; (c) banking reforms, which will make access to commercial financing for EE more accessible
and less restrictive; and (d) SOE reforms, which will force inefficient industries to improve overall
efficiency and productivity, which would include reducing energy and other operating costs, or be shut
down.

Pilot Program Market: A market assessment conducted under the PDF B grant analyzed the market in
Vietnam and recommend market sectors and technology opportunities which would best match the
"commercial market criteria" inorder to focus programefforts ina direction most likely to generate short-
term successes. The potential commercial transaction volume for identified sectors and technologies has
then been further refined by estimating the potential capacity for local project agents to "develop" and
"deliver" projects under the Project's activities. This market research has consisted o f (i)    a review of
past studies and research on EE potential in the Vietnamese market; (ii)       walk-through energy audits in
target facilities; (iii)
                      interviews with facility managers to discuss attitudes and barriers to EE investment;
(iv) interviews with local project agents to gauge their capability to provide a range of EE solutions and

                                                    - 6 8 -


understand local experiences in overcoming barriers to EE investments; and (v) interactive stakeholder
workshops in Hanoi and H o Chi Minh City with government, commercial building, industrial, energy
auditing, equipment supplier, research institute and financial sector stakeholders. The result of the above
market research has been the selection of specific sectors and technology areas, which are believed to
meet the market criteria required for program success, within the constraint of project agent capacity to
deliver EEsolutions over the 4-year life of the program.

While the overall market potential for EE in Vietnam i s large, commercial transactions require: (i)    end
users who have access to or can mobilize project financing capital; (ii)       service providers who can
facilitate project development and implementation; and (iii)  awareness by end-users that EEmeasures are
viable and profitable. Based on these criteria and consultation with a wide range of stakeholders and
market actors, the following sub-sectors were identified as having potential for energy savings as well as
a highpercentageof creditworthy owners with access to capital:
                        3-5 star hotels;
                 0     Commercial office buildings;
                 0     Textile factories;
                       Foodprocessing plants; and
                 0      Water treatment and supply facilities.

While public buildings represent a larger share of the "buildings" market from an energy consumption
standpoint, this segment does not represent a short-term commercial market for EE retrofits due to the
absence of any formal EEprocurement program within the government, very limited ability for financing
and budgetary support, centralized decision-making, lack of life-cycle cost analyses for equipment
purchase and incentive lapses, where public agencies may not benefit from energy saving projects due to
corresponding budget reductions. Hotels and office buildings, while a smaller share of the total market,
represent a more commercially viable short-term opportunity for EE service providers due to the fact that
investment decision-making is possible (companies are mostly privately owned) and many owners are
creditworthy. Although most of the industrial sector i s dominated by SOEs with limited ability to access
capital for EE retrofit investments, certain sub-sectors are profitable and growing. Market research has
shown that many textile and food processing facilities meet these conditions and, thus, could be attractive
candidates for EE investments. Additionally, water supply plants are being privatized and combine the
elements of: (i)   energy costs representing a significant percentage of their operating cost; (ii)  private
decision-making structures; and (iii)  access to capital.

Thus, for the proposed pilot program, it has beenestimated that the total market potential for the targeted
customer classes is US$40-50 million in total. This i s based on the viability of technical retrofits, status
of creditworthy customers, the capacity for existing and new project agents to grow their businesses, and
the creditworthiness of the targeted end-users. However, given the need for significant initial training and
marketing, the very early stage of the market and the realistic penetration rates of the service market, it i s
expected that the program could achieve about US$7.3 million over the 4-year period. While relatively
small, this has been determined to be adequately sized to make a significant and sustainable stimulus to
the market and allow the industry to achieve a critical mass of business that could then be capable of
expansion in later years. Market analysis has estimated that the above investment could result in more
than 47 GWh of energy savings per year by the end of the program. (See Figure A l l - 3 for a breakdown
of energy savings by sub-sector for the pilot program.)

Pilot ProgramTechno1og;ies: As noted above, a number of detailed audits and interviews were conducted
to better analyze the potential EE retrofit market inVietnam and identify potential cost-effective projects
and technologies. While the pilot program would be flexible to allow all commercially viable projects to
be implemented, an initial focus on simple and replicable technologies will be strongly encouraged early

                                                      - 69 -


on to help build a solid base of project successes. Thus it is expected that initial technology training
would focus on these key areas:
        replacement of incandescent bulbs with CFLs;
        replacement of 40 W with 36/32 W fluorescent lamps;
        replacement of standard magnetic ballasts with low-loss ballasts;
        introduction of variable speed drives for motor drives, fans and pumps;
        combustion efficiency improvement (for diesel generators);
        highefficiency air conditioners andchillers;
        efficient water heaters and insulation; and
        more efficient electrical supply systems (e.g., transformers, capacitors).

All of the technologies listed are available inVietnam and can be replicated in a large number of target
commercial and industrial facilities. As the portfolio of projects grows and project agents improve their
technical abilities and sophistications, it i s expected that this list will continue to grow and develop. And,
as the industrial sector becomes more financially viable and commercially attractive to service providers,
the potential for a greater number of industrialprojects and technologies will further increase.

                      FigureAll-3. Pilot CommercialProgramSavingsPotential

                                                      Largeoffice
                                                       buildings




                                   Water                                           54%
                                 pumping
                                     5%


Proiect Agents: The total market potential has been further refined to reflect the potential capacity for
local project agents to develop and deliver EE projects to end-use customers. This supply side of the
market i s comprised of local equipment manufacturers, equipment suppliers, and technical services
providers (e.g., energy auditors, engineering consultants, technical institutes), which are collectively
referred to as project agents, as well as financial services providers. Among local manufacturers and
equipment suppliers the players include a mix of major international companies and joint ventures (e.g.,
ABB, Carrier, Danfoss, GE, LG, National, Osram, Philips, Toshiba) and local Vietnamese companies,
some of which represent and distribute imported equipment. Some companies who manufacture locally
are also able to import and distribute other products. In addition, there are a growing number of service
providers that are seeking business inEE retrofits. Examples include: (i)         local companies such as Thang
Long Lighting and Enerteam who are transacting under models with some performance-based clauses;
and (ii) international firms and/or joint ventures, such as Danfoss and Philips, who are suppliers of EE
equipment. Some of these companies have already begun pioneering more complex service models to
grow their respective businesses and facilitate transactions in EE improvements. These models have
involved vendor financing of EE equipment costs to allow end-user payments to be staggered based on
energy savings over a fixed period; deferred payment (as a lump sum) for equipment after its performance

                                                    - 70 -


has been demonstrated; breaking EE investments into several smaller projects and using the proceeds of
one to finance the next; and basing equipmenthervice payments on guaranteed performance of energy
savings. However, these f m s have encountered a number of constraints to business growth which range
from limited equity and financing to low awareness and credibilityhisk sharing of energy savings. As a
result, the total market activity has remained limited. It was estimated that the market activity for
commercial EEretrofits in2001 was only about US$200,000.

Over 40 companies have now been identified in Vietnam with relevant capabilities and interest in the
program (see Table A11-2, below). These would serve as the initial base of project agents, although
additional agents would be identified and recruited throughout the program period. The program would
offer a broad range of training to assist these agents to develop their businessesand technical competence.
As these service providers further develop their technical and business skills, as well as achieve more
project successes, the level of technical, financial and contractual complexities would naturally continue
to progress leading to further options for risk sharing and project financing to help increasepenetration of
EEservicesinthe market.


                                     Business Type                    Number
                           LocalEquipment Manufacturers                  11
                           Equipment Suppliers                           17
                           Technical Service Providers                   8
                           Financial Service Companies                   4
                           TOTAL                                         40

ResidentialSector

The estimated number of households in Vietnam in 2000 was 16.7 million, of which 12.8 million were
rural and 3.9 million urban households. Of the rural households, some 9.5 million have grid-based
electricity services. According to the results of a survey of about 3,000 households conducted under the
Phase 1DSMefforts, the major end uses in the residentialsector are lighting, cooking, fans, refrigerators,
air conditioners and miscellaneous appliances. Lighting i s by far the most important of these end uses
and it i s estimated from the survey results that residential lighting contributed about 305 kWh in
electricity consumption and 133 W per household to the peak load, or a total of 4,088 GWh and 1,780
MW of the peak load in 2000. This represented about 20 percent of the electricity consumption and 36
percent of the total peak.      Of the residential lighting load, about 17 percent (302 MW) i s from
incandescentbulbs and 83 percent (1,478 MW)from FTLs.

The current penetration of CFLs and efficient T-8 FTLs i s very low. The number of CFLs in the
residential sector i s estimated to be about 0.5 million or only 0.6 percent of the total lamps installed to
date. The number of efficient FTL(T-8 tube lights) i s estimated to be 4.4 million (representing about 8.1
percent of all FTL). Efforts to transform the markets from incandescent lamps to CFLs and T-10FTLs to
T-8 FTLs would, therefore, represent substantial energy savings as well as reductions in EVN's system
peak loads. The potential for energy savings through the promotion of CFLs was also noted as a priority
area for carbon emissions reduction from the ALGAS Study.

Compact Fluorescent Lamus (CFLs): CFLs represent an excellent opportunity for energy savings in
Vietnam. As replacement of incandescent lamps with CFLs can yield reductions in energy consumption
of as much as 70-80 percent. CFLs can also provide peak reduction benefits because in the residential
sector, lightingloads are major contributors to the system peak load. However, the installation of CFLs i s
at present limited by a number of barriers including:

                                                     -71 -


         highinitialcost, with the averageCFL costing about 10-times the cost of an incandescentlamp;
         lack of customer awareness of the benefits of CFL (e.g., energy savings, longer life, reduced heat
         output);
         limitedproduct availability;
         concerns over CFL failure or breakage sooner after installation;
         low residential tariffs; and
         confusion about the relative merits of the different lamps available and lack of understanding of
         the quality issues (due to low quality imports).

CFLs are currently available in Vietnam, but, due to the barriers cited above, their current market
penetration i s very low in the residential sector. The 3,000 household survey conducted by EVN, which
covered four PC service territories (PC Hanoi, PC Ho Chi Minh City, PC 1 and PC 2), found that the
average number of lamps per household in urban areas i s 7.1 and in rural areas 5.9, leading to an overall
residential lighting market of over 83 million lamps. Of these, the survey found that 34.7 percent of the
lamps are incandescent bulbs and 0.6 percent are CFLs (the rest are fluorescent tube lamps). These
results clearly illustrate very low existing penetration of CFLs among the residentialhousehold sector and
large opportunities for savings if the market could be expanded.

CFLs available in the Vietnamese market today can be roughly categorized into three different types
according to their qualities:

    0    "high quality": imports from Europe/US with a efficacy       - 60 Lm/W, and   a lifetime of 10,000
         hours;
         "medium quality": domestic Vietnamese production and imports from neighboring Asian
         countries with a efficacy  -50  Lm/W,and a lifetime of 5,000 to 6,000 hours; and
    0    "low quality": imports with a low efficacy, and a lifetime of only 1,000 hours.

Both imported and domestic CFLs are readily available in local retail outlets. Imported CFLs range
substantially in quality and mainly come from China, Singapore, Spain, Thailand and the United States.
The domestically manufactured CFLs come mostly from the two major producers of CFLs in Vietnam,
Dien Quang Lamp Company (DIMEXCO) in H o Chi Minh City, and Rang Dong Light Source and
Vacuum Flask Company (RALACO) inHanoi. These companies manufacture a range of CFLs from 5 to
20 W. The combinedproduction capacity i s estimated to be about 3 millionunitsper year, but the current
production level is a small fraction of this capacity due to the lack of market demand and most of the sales
today are to commercial customers.

Under the Phase 1efforts, EVN has done extensive analysis on the potential for increasing the sales of
CFLs through a combination of declining discounts, bulk procurement, marketing and revolving fund
activities. These analyses have concluded that there is significant scope to achieve a sustained increase
the penetration of CFLs inthe residential sector. It was determined that a 3-year programdesigned to sell
one million new CFLs would significantly expand the residential market (about four times the current
size) and could affect a reduction in the prevailing market price of CFLs by some 15-25 percent (see
Figure A11-4).

                                                    - 72 -

                        Figure All-4. Residential CFL Market Transformation



                    6.0

             -aJ    5.0
              u)


             m c
              0 Q 4.0
             ._.--
              gg    3.0
             .I-
             9 E.s 2.0
                Y
             5      1.0

                    0.0



                                                      Year


Efficient Fluorescent Tube Lights (FTL): Thin fluorescent tube lights (T-8 lamps) are about 10 percent
more efficient that the standard fluorescent tube lights (standard or fat FTL,or T-10 lamps). T-10 F T L s
require 20 W (2-foot lamps) and 40 W (4-foot lamps) compared with the T-8 lamps, which use 18 and 36
W, respectively. Energy savings can be increased further if the low-loss electronic ballasts are used with
the T-8 FTLs. Since the cost of the T-8 lamps i s about the same as the T-10 lamps, the potential for
transforming the market i s high. The potential benefits of such replacement are also very highsince F T L s
represent a high proportion of the lighting loads in the residential (and small commercial) sector.
However, untilnow, the installation of T-8 lamps has been constrainedby the following barriers:

    0    Reliance of the large manufacturers on the production of T-10 lamps;
    0    Lack of customer awarenessof the benefits of T-8 lamps;
    0    Customer skepticismof the quality and savings potential of the T-8 lamps;
    0    Limited availability of sufficient numbers of T-8 lamps inthe market; and
    0    Perception of power quality issues with T-8 lamps, due to the higher starting voltage
         requirements, and the effect of large voltage fluctuations on T-8 performance and life.

Due to these barriers, the current market penetration of T-8 lamps i s very low, particularly in the
residential sector. The survey conducted by EVN found that 65 percent of the lights installed in both
urban and rural households in Vietnam today are FTLs, with only about 5.2 percent T-8 lamps. Almost
none of the households surveyed use the low-loss electronic ballast with the T-8 lamps, representing
further lost opportunities for energy savings.

The local producers of FTLs inVietnam today include:
              o DienQuangLamp Company (DIMEXCO), Ho ChiMinhCity
              o RangDongLight Source and VacuumFlask Company (RALACO), Hanoi
              o Dong-A Electric Joint Venture, Hanoi
              o Song HongConstructionCompany

DIMEXCO has a production capacity of 18 million unitsper year (3 assembly lines of standardFTLwith
capacity of 12 million unitdyear and 1assembly line of T-8 F T L s with capacity of 6 million units per

                                                   -73 -


year). RALACO has a total production capacity of 20 - 25 million units per year (4 assembly lines, of
which 2 have the ability to produce T-8 FTLs). As with the CFLs, the actual production of T-8 lamps i s
considerably less than the capacity, due to the lack of market demand for them, and most of the T-8 lamps
are sold to the commercial sector. Philipsexpects to open its first local manufacturing plant near Ho Chi
MinhCity inlate2002 andis consideringproducingT-8FTLs.

Under the Phase 1efforts, EVN has concluded that there i s scope to expand the residential sales of T-8
lamps by some 6 million units over 2 years and, thus, achieve a critical mass of demand to sustain and
further grow the T-8 product lines, while gradually phasing out the T-10 FTLs. Since the cost differential
of the more efficient lamps i s negligible, EVN would focus its efforts on informational and marketing
campaigns, along with negotiations with the major local manufacturers, to achieve these results. (See
Figure A11-5 for the expected shift in sales as aresult of the program.)

                     FigureAll-5. ResidentialT-8FTLMarketTransformation


                  50.0
            -8G'35.0
                  45.0
                  40.0
            Q



            p E 25.0
            >  --30.0
               E 20.0
            5E G 15.0
               E

                  10.0
                   5.0
                   0.0



                                                        Year


