Page  1
Conformed Copy
 September 27, 2001
Governor Le Duc Thuy 
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Re:  Grant for Preparation of the GEF Vietnam Demand-Side 
Management and Energy Efficiency Project 
GEF-PPG TF050064
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  (the Bank) 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the Bank’s agreement to extend to the 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the Recipient) an Grant in an amount not exceeding US$ 216,000 (the 
Grant). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
The award of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part of the Bank, 
either as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the International Development 
Association, to assist in financing any project which will result from the activities financed by the 
Grant.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of  the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
 of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Country Director
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
Page  2
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy, Governor
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 18, 2001
Page  3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1. The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the GEF Vietnam Demand-Side 
Management (DSM) and Energy Efficiency (EE) Project (the Project).  The objective of the proposed 
Project is to achieve significant and sustainable reductions in energy consumption and peak power 
demand in Vietnam.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) 
Design a pilot commercial EE program (the Program), including: evaluate the market 
size for EE services and the investment needs to support the development of pilot investment projects 
by commercial service providers; identify potential commercial service providers and possible 
business models; develop institutional arrangements to administer the Program; identify several cities 
as candidates for pilot projects and dissemination of information on the pilot Program; evaluate needs 
for technical assistance to support administration, marketing and monitoring of the Program; 
(b)
  Develop technical guidelines for the Program, including: define key technical retrofit 
categories; develop criteria for equipment and renovations eligible for support under the Program; 
develop testing, monitoring and inspection requirements for the Program; develop technical assistance 
and training to support commercial service providers;
(c)
Carry out incremental cost analysis for the DSM/EE Project; and
(d)
Support the administration of Project development activities.
2.
Implementation  Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the 
progress and results of the Activities and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank 
to visit the territory of [member country] for the purposes related to the Grant.*   Without limitation 
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1. Consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
Page  4
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency”, published by the Bank in 
August 1981 [(the consultant Guidelines)].  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.  
[The provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall 
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $          
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less 
than $          equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) 
the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $          equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $          
equivalent or above.]
[3.2.Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured:  (a) in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines); and 
(b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of the 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word “bids” in such 
paragraph 4, shall be replaced by “quotations”.*
2.1. The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities through Ministry of Industry with due diligence 
and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank’s 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures 
required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Recipient for the purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
Page  5
3.
Procurement
3.1
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2. The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated in U.S. Dollar
Expenditures to
Item
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
      216,000
 
 100%
Services
Total
216,000
4.3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: no withdrawals shall be made: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter Agreement; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment , to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after August 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be 
made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date and received by the Bank within four 
months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn 
from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4. When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver 
to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by an authorized official or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant with 
supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Page  6
4.5. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
4.6. Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The Bank, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7. To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activitiesin respect the Activities of the department or agencies of the 
Recipient responsible for carrying out.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, and accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, principles and 
consistently applied, by independent auditors with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) 
retain, until at least after one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  7
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations therein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Recipient, to make withdrawals under[International] any loan agreement with the Bank or [for 
Reconstruction and Development]any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association[] {IDA] shall have been suspended.
6.2. The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within 90 days after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Attachment I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants 
for services for the Activities set forth in paragraph 1.1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 (a) through (c) of the Annex may be procured 
Page  8
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 (d) of the Annex estimated to cost less than 
US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  9
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment to Annex Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)  The term “eligible item” means the item set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement;
(b)  the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)  the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$21,600 be withdrawn 
from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
    
 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall       
       specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
Page  10
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account.
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex of this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)  Once the total withdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; 
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank:  (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
