Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFIC1E COPY                                                  Report No.  10055-MA
~Report No. 10055-MAI Type   (SAR)
TELAWUN, A! X34056 / J111I1/ AF6JE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MA.LAMI
POWER V PROJECT
MAY 19, 1992
Southern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
'this document has a restricted distibution and May be used by reeipients only In the pertornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Hank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVZLENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
USs 1.00 = MK 2.79
MK 1.00 = US$ 0.36
14K 1.00 = 100 tambalas
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                  10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                     0 0e621 miles
1 square kilometer (ki2)        =   0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (i3)              -   35.3 cubic feet
1 kilovolt (kV)                 =   1000 volts
1 kcilowatt hour (kWh)          =   1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                 =   1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                1 million kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)              1000 kilovolt ampere
mtpy                            =   million tons per year
MVAr                            =   megavolt ampere-reactive
pf                                   power factor
toe                             =   tonnes of oil equivalent
tpd                                  tonnes per day
WEIGHTS, VOLUMES AND MEASURES
1 m3 (solid) wood                    1.43 m3 (stacked) wood
1 m3 (stacked) wood             -   0.70 m3 solid wood
1 in (solid) hard wood          =   0.70 m3 ton of wood
1 in (stacked) hard wood        =   0.49 ton of wood
1 ton of charcoal                    7 giga calories
1 ton of hard wood              =   3 giga calories
1 meter (m)                          3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (i3)              =   35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                  =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                =   0.62 &.iles
1 square kilometer (ki2)        =   0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB (AfDB)                  -  African Development Bank
CDC                         -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
DSB                         -  Department of Statutory Bodies
EIB                         -  European Investment Bank
EPD                         -  Economic Planning and Development
ESCOM                       -  Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
ESMAP                       -  Energy Sector Management assistance Program
GDP                         -  Gross Domestic Product
ICS                         -  Interconnected System
IPPS                        -  Investment Program of the Power Subsector
KfW                         -  Kreditanstadt fur Wiederaufbau
MFNR                        -  Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MTIT                        -  Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism
NORAD                       -  Norwegian Aid Development
OPC                         -  Office of the President and Cabinet
PCC                         -  Petroleum Control Commission
SADCC                       -  Southern African Development Coordination Conference
SCADA                       -  System Control and Data Acquisition
TAMS                        -  Tippets - Abbet - McCarthy - Stratton
UNDP                        -  United Nations Development Program
WLPU                        -  Watermeyer, Legge, Pieshold & Uhlmann
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawi: April 1 - March 31
ESCOM:      January 1 - December 31, until December 1988
April 1 - March 31 since December 1988



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
M&LWX
POWER V PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT SUTlNARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a .   . .   -i
I. THE EERGY SECTOR
Economic Background . . .  . ..... .... . .......   1
Energy Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Biomass . . . . .                    
Coal    . . . .                                         2
Hydropower    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
Other Energy Resources  . ....   ....... .. .  2
Unergy Demand and Supply  . *............ . . . . .  2
Wood  Fuels    .  .  .  .  .  .  * . .   . .  .  *  .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Petroleum Products     . . . .    . ...........   4
Electricity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Coal    .                   .                  .  . .   5
Organization and Planning of the Energy Sector  . . . . . *  .  5
Government's Energy Sector
Objectives and Strategy . . .  ... ............   6
Experience with Past and Ongoing Lending  .                   7 . . . . . . .    7
Energy Pricing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
II. TBE BORROWER AND T.E IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES  . . . . . . .  9
The  Borrower    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  e  .  .  .  .  *  .  *  *  *  .  *  *  9
The Implementing Ageneies . . .  ...............   9
Electricity Supply Comission of Malavi . . . . . . . .  9
Institutional Set Up    . ..  . . ..  . . ....    9
Management and Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Planning and Engineering  . . . . . . . . .  . .  12
Operations and Maintenance  . . . . . . .    . .  12
Accounting  a.J Audits . . .    . . . ..   . . .  12
Billing and Collection  .  ....... . . . .  13
Data Processing .  ........           .            13
Training   . . o  . . . .  . .  . . . . . . .   13
Insuranoe and Taxes .   . . .... . . . . ...    14
Non Power Components  . . . . . . . ..e                 14
The Energy Division .  .  .  . . .    e  .   .   14
The Petroleum Control Commission  . . . . . . . .  14
The Tobacco Control Commission. . . . . . . . .    15. 15
Existing Power Facilities.  ........ .a...   15
Generation System    ...............   15
Load Dispatch Center  . . . . . . .      . . . .  16
Transmission and Distribution Systems . . . . . .  16
III. THE ELECTRICITY HAT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Recent Demand Trends  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .a. .  .  17
DemandProjections  ...... ............. ..........   18
Generation and Capacity Balances  * * a a a * a 9 9 9 .  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. POWRIMSTMENTPROGRAM DMPROjECT  . . . . . . . . . .  20
The Inivestment Program of the Power Sector  . . . . . . . . .  20
Source of financng             ..................   21
Works in Progress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,  21
The  Project  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Project Objectives  . . ......   .. . . .........    22
Rationale for IDA's Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Project Description . .  . .. .. . .*  . . . . . . .. .. . .   23
Kapichira Hydro Scheme  .. . .. ... .. .. . .. .   23
Generation Rehabilitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Transmission Reinforcement  .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Distribution Reinforcement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Institutional Strengthening ESCOM . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Non-Power Components  ................ *                   25
Energy Planning and Policy  a999          9    9  o o  25
Petroleum Supply  ................   25
Energy Efficiency. . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .   26
Project Cost Estimate        ..............               26
Project Financing Plan  ..............                    27
Project Implementation  ................   28
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Project Preparation Facility. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Disbursement  . . . . .                                .  *  31
Special Accounts  ......... ..... . . . .            .    31
Environmental Aspects.................   31
RiparianRig      hte      ..................               32
Project Risks . . . . . . . . ... .. ..... .  33
Project Monitoring and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . .  33
V.  IANCIALASPECTSANDCOSTECOVEY . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Financial Performance (ESCOM) .................                   33
AccountingandAuditing    ............................... 35
Asset Revaluation and Depreciation  . . .   . . .    . . . . .   36
Tariffs       * . . a .* . . *   . . a  . . . . *0  * V    *    36
Financial Projections ... .. . . . . . . . ... . . .a.a ..    37
Proposed Financing Plan  .9. 9.99.... a        a..........    39
VI. ECONOMIC _JUSTIFICATION  . . . a . . . . . . . . . .   a    40
Least-Cost Power System Expansion   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Justification for Generation Rehabilitation . . . . . . . . . . 41
Justification for the Transmission Component  . . . * . a . .  41
Justification for the Diabribution Component  . . . . . . . .  41
EconomicRateofReturn ... a*         ...............    9    42
VII. AGREEMENTS REAChED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
DuringNegotiation            e.....................    43
Conditions of Effectivenesi ..............  .... e 9 o o e 44
Conditions of Disbursement  9    9         ... .......   44
Recommendation. . ... 9   . . . . .   9 9 9 . . .  .  * . . . . . 44



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.1   Hydroelectric Potential of Malawi
1.2   Energy Balance 1987
2.1 Proposed Organization at Government Level for Medium Term Planning
Process (All Parastatals)
2.2   ESCOM Organization Chart
2.3   Selected Performance Indicators
2.4   Existing Facilities 1990:      -     ESCON's Generating Plant
-     ESCOM's Transmission and
Dietribution Systems
-     Summary List of Private
Generating Plant
3.1   ESCOM Interconnected System:  -      Sales and Generation
Base Scenario (Actual and
Projected)
3.2   ESCOM Interconnected System:  -      Sales and Generation
High Scenario (Actual and
Projected)
3.3                                  -     Sales and Generation Low
Scenario (Acutal and
Projected)
3.4   ESCOM Interconnected System:  -      Capacity and Generating
Balances
4.1   Detailed Project Description
4.2   Power Sector Investment Program 1991-1998
4.3   Power V Project Cost Estimates:
-    Contingencies Shown Separately
-    Contingencies included in each
Subcomponent
-    Project cost Estimate
4.4   Summary of Project Implementation Schedule
4.5   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.6   Monitoring Guidelines and Performance Indicators
4.7   Summary Environmental Assessment
4.8  Schedule of Supervision Mission
5.1   ESCOM Financial Indicators for Years Ending March 31
5.2   ESCOM Income Statements for Years Ending March 31, 1992-1996
5.3   ESCOM Balance Sheet for Years Ending December 31, 1987-1995
5.4   ESCOM Sources and Application of Funds Statement for Years ending
March 31.
5-5  Definition and Working Example of the Self Financing Ratio
5.6   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
5.7   ESCOM existing tariffs
5.8   ESCOM proposed tariffs
6.1   Least cost Generation Options
6.2   Economic Analysis of Transmission Lines
6.3   Economic Analysis of the Distribution Reinforcement
6.4   Economic Rate of Return of the Project
MAP   IBRD 23398 Malawi Power V Project Dated December 1991
This report is based en the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Malawi in August/September 1991. The appraisal mission was led
by Mr. Assefa Telahun, Sr. Power Engineer (AP6IE). Mr. Robin
Broadfield, Sr. Energy Economist (AP6IE) and Nr. Gulam Dhalla
(Coneultant, Financial Analyst) were the additional mission members.
Valuable advice was received from Messrs. John Besant-Jones, Edwin Moore
(IENED), John Graves (APTEF) and Robert Tillman (AFTEN). Secretarial
Gupport was provided by Mrs. Dotilda Sidibe. Messrs. David Cook (AF6TE)
and Stephen Denning (AF6DR) are the managing Division Chief and
Department Director.



NAIAWI
POWER V PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:            Government of Malawi
Amount:               SDR39.2 million (US$51 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:       Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)I the
Department of Economic Planning and Development
(EPD); the Petroleum Control Commission (WCC); the
Tobacco Control Commission (TCC).
Terms:               IDA standard terms, maturity of 40 years including
10 years grace.  Onlending of US$53.75 million to
ESCOM for the power component at 7.23% interest
rate, repayment period of 20 years including 5 years
grace, ESCOM bearing the foreign exchange risk. The
balance will be passed on to EPD (US$600,000), PCC
(US$250,000) and TCC (US$400,000).
Pr'-ject Objectives:  The objective of the proposed Project is to assist
the Government to implement the priority components
of the least cost power development program.  The
subsidiary objectives are to improve the quality of
power supply and to strengthen energy sector
institutions to plan and manage energy sector
activities at sectoral and sub-sectoral levels.
Project Description: The power component of the Project would comprise:
(i) increasing the hydro generation capacity by 50MW
through the construction of the f4rst phase of a
hydroelectric power plant at Kapichira Falls,
including related transmission system expansion, and
engineering services for design and supervision;
(ii) rehabilitation of the existing hydro, standby
gas turbine and diesel power plants to improve their
availability; (iii) reinforcing and expanding the
transmission and distribution systems, to improve
reliability,   reduce   losses   and   connect   new
consumers; (iv) strengthening ESCOM through the
provision of couputer hardware and software, studies
and training.  The non-power component would: (i)
assist the Government (EPD) in energy planning and
policy formulation through provision of technical
assistance; (ii) support the PCC in least cost
petroleum  product   sourcing  through  technical
assistance; and (iii) provide technical assistance
to the TCC in improving barn design for smallholder
tobacco curing, to reduce woodfuel consumption.
Benefits and Risks:  The Project would enhance the economic utilization
of indigenous energy resources by increasing hydro
generation capability and by reducing system losses



- ii -
and improving system reliability. The Project also
supports energy efficiency initiatives which will
have  marked  influence  in  reducing  woodfuel
consumption (by an average of at least 30%) in the
tobacco curing industry, second only to households
in  woodfuel  consumption.    Malawi's  import  of
petroleum products is draining a substantial
percentage (currently about 16X) of its foreign
currency earnings. The Project supports efforts to
reduce import and delivery prices of petroleum
products. The estimated economic rate of return of
the power component of the Project is 16.1Z, which
is above the opportunity cost of capital in Malawi.
The Project runs the risk of delay if the financing
gap   for   the   transmission   and   distribution
reinforcement subcomponents cannot be closed as
early  as possible.    The  financing  gap  can be
eliminated   by trimming the Project to only the
hydroelectric power plant.   However,  this would
jeopardize some of the objectives and benefits of
the Project. Trimming may also adversely affect the
interest of possible cofinanciers. Dated covenants
in the legal documents are included to help minimize
this risk.   ESCOM, with the assistance of the
Government, will otherwise be able to finance the
transmission   and   distribution   reinforcement
components.     There is also the risk that new
generation capacity may be commissioned too early or
too late if demand forecasts prove inaccurate or are
adversely  affected  by  international  economic
situations or unforeseen political developments in
the region.   The power scheme as studied has no
complex structures and will have no significant
environmental  impact;  no  technical  risks  are
therefore  anticipated.    The  financial  risk  of
project costs exceeding the estimates is minimized
through independent cost updates of the hydro
component of the Project.   The transmission and
distribution components could be reduced in scope if
costs increase, without substantially altering their
specific objectives.



PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Loc,l        Foreian       Total
(US$ Million)
Power Component
1. Kapichira
Civil Works                       47.81        61.46        109.27
Electromechanical                   .95        27.73         28.68
Transmission                       3.28         15.40        18.68
Engineering                        2.74         14.60        17.34
54.78       119.19        173.97
2. Generation Rehabilitation             0.18          5.19          5.37
3. Transmission Reinforcement            2.55         16.28         18.83
4. Distribution reinforcement            5.95         23.11        29.06
5. Institutional Strengthening           0.09          2.64          2.73
Sub Total                         63.55       166.41        229.96
6. Non-Power Components                    .09         1.25          1.34
Total Power V                     63.64       167.66        231.30
Interest during construction    40.47          -40.47
Total                            104.11        167.66       271.77
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foregig         Total
(US$ Million)
Government                                        0.09          --            0.09
ESCOM                                           104.02          0.40        104.42
IDA                                                --         55.00          55.00
CDC                                                --         25.00          25.00
EIB                                                --          18.00          18.00
AfDB                                               --          27.68         27.68
Other cofinanciers *
41.58 41.58
Total Financing Requirement                     104.11        167.66        271.77
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF IDA CREDIT
(US$ Million)
IDA FY           1992     1993    1994    1995   1996  1997   1998
Annual          0.60**   7.90    13.58    15.39  11.76  4.42   1.35
Cumulative     0.60**  8.50    22.08    37.47  49.23 53.65  55.00
*7    Mainly for to transmissLou and distribution reinforcement components. While this gap is
likely to be closed by cofinanciers, Government and ESCOM have committed to finance these
components if financing does not become available.
**/   PPF disbursements.



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Economic Background
1.1         Malawi is a small, landlocked, predominantly rural country of about
8.5 million inhabitants, bordered by Mozambique to the south-west and south-east,
Zambia to the north-west and Tanzania to the north-east.   The bulk of the
population is engaged in small-scale agriculture, and average per capita income
is a low US$190 per year (1990). Major exports are tobacco, tea and sugar.
1.2   After a period of healthy economic expansion in the 1970s, declining export
earnings and war in Mozambique slowed 3conomic growth in the 1980's below the
population growth of 3.5%. Increases in smallholder output and increased balance
of payments support helped stimulate economic recovery in 1988-91, when economic
growth averaged close to 5% per annum. Given reasonably stable export earnings
and sustained donor assistance, annual growth in the 4 - 4 1/2% range is
projected for che first half of the 1990s; however, the ongoing draught will
adversely effect the expected economic growth.
Energy Resources
1.3         Malawi's major energy resource is biomass, which, in the form of wood
and charcoal, meets the bulk of household and a large proportion of agricultural
energy needs. Several rivers, notably the Shire, which drains from Lake Malawi
into the Zambezi, have hydropower potential.   The country also has modest
reserves of generally low-quality coal. Despite active, no sources of oil or gas
have been discovered. Detailed information on the country's energy resources is
contained in the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report (Malawi: Issues
and Options in the Energy Sector, April 1982).
1.4         Biomass.  Trees and shrubs cover about 4 million hectares, 352 of
Malawi's total land area. Indigenous vegetation on customary land accounts for
about 75% of the 4 million hectares, forest reserves for about 20%, Government
and private plantations, national parks and game reserves for the balance.
Average annual sustainable wood yield is low, due to the slow-growing character
of indigenous stock and generally poor ecological conditions.  In aggregate,
sustainable biomass supply is estimated to be greater than current national
consumption. However, there is a serious regional imbalance between supply and
demand. Roughly 50% of supply is located in the sparsely populated Northern
Region.   In the Central and Southern Regions in which nearly 90Z of the
population live, land clearing for agriculture and wood use for fuel and
construction is rapidly exhausting existing biomass resources, particularly on
customary land. Recent estimates suggest that these resources are shrinking by
about 3.52 per year and that supplies from customary land in the south and parts
of the center could be nearing exhaustion in less than ten years.
1.5         Sugar cane molasses and juices produced by Malawi's two sugar estates
are used to produce ethanol, which is blended with petrol to reduce petroleum
imports. The ethanol plant, which was commissioned in 1982, currently produces
an average of about 10 million liters of ethanol per year, sufficient to achieve
an average ethanol/petrol blend of about 15:85. Consideration is being given to
the establishment of a second ethanol plant. However, the maximum feasible
ethanol/petrol blend that can be used without costly engine conversion is about
20:80, so full utilization of this additional supply would require the conversion



-2-
of some vehicles to 1001 ethanol operation. The economics of this project should
therefore be studied carefully before a decioion l.s made.
1.6         Coal. roal deposits occur in several different locations in Malawi.
The most promising deposits in terms of quality and recoverability are near Ngana
in the remote north of the country, where estimated reserves are in region of 16
million tons. However, high transport costs to the distant markets in the center
and particularly the south have rendered exploitation of these reserves
uneconomic. Other deposits are generally in geologically distarbed areas, where
limited seam thickness and poor quality severely limit their economic potential.
Mining began in 1985 at Kaziwiziwi, a small reserve in the north. About 11S,000
tonnes of coal has been produced from Kaziwiziwi, but accessible reserves are now
virtually depleted. Production has recently switched to neighboring Mchenga,
which is now meeting the bulk of demand. With support from the Government of
France, exploratory drilling program has been completed at two sites in the
south, Lengwe and Mwabvi. The reaults of the drilling program suggest that, on
average, the coals have a relatively low calorific value and high ash content.
However, some areas of the Mwab'i deposit are potentially promising, and further
exploratory investigation has been recommended and is planned.
1.7         HydroDower.   The hydropower potential of Malawi (Annex 1.1) is
concentrated on the Shire river, which flows south from Lake Malawi and joins the
Zambezi in Mozambique. The Shire's estimated hydro potential is about 600 MW and
3,500 GWh. To date, 144 MW has been developed. Several smaller rivers, such as
the Songwe, South Rukura, Wovwe and Bua, have limited hydro potential at a number
of small sites, estimated to total about 300-400 MW. The development of a 4 MW
mini-hydro plant on the Wovwe river is planned as a first step towards
exploitation of this resource.
1.8         Other Energy Resources.  The average insolation level in Malawi is
a relatively high 18MJme.  However, the only significant use of solar energy is
by the Department of Posts and Telecommunicat-Ions and the Malawi Broadcasting
Corporation for communications, using solar photo-voltaLc panels. There is also
very limited use of wind for water pumping in isolated areas.
Energy Demand and Supply
1.9         Malawi's primary energy consumption totalled an estimated 2.43
million tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) in 1989. Woodfuels accounted for 93%,
petroleum products for 4%, electricity for 2% and coal and ethanol for the
remaining 1%. Average per capita energy consumption is a low 0.36 toe per year.
Households consume about 85Z of total final energy, agriculture 8%, transport 4%,
manufacturing 1.5% and assorted commercial activities the remainder. An energy
balance for 1989 is shown in Annex 1.2 and the pattern of final energy
consumption summarized in Table 1.1 below.
1.10     Woodfuels. An estimated 8.8 million tonnes of wood was used for energy
purposes in 1989, about 94% of which was consumed by households, 5% in the
processing of tobacco and tea and the balance in small rural and urban
industries, such as brick making and fish smoking. Rural households gather wood
free of charge for cooking and space heating purposes from neighboring trees,
bushes and shrubs. They also use crop residues when these are available and/or
wood is scarce. Most urban households use a combination of wood and charcoal.



-3-
The charcoal and some of the wood io purchased, the remainder of the wood
gathered. The tobacco and tea industries use wood either from their estates or
neighboring customary land for curing and barn cor.struction.
Table 1.11
Fi nal Ineag Consuenton b oConsumer Caterr7 and Fuel , 1989
(pearent)
Puelwvood   Charcoal    Petroleum    Electricity   C6^1  Total-
Households    75.0        8.6            0.1        0.3             85.0
Agriculture               7.0            0.6         0.4              8.0
Transport                                4.0                          4.0
Manufacturing                            0.2         0.4      0.9    1.5
Other                                    0.9         0.6              1.5
BAR&       .6             5.8          1.7      0.9   100.0
Rapid population growth., now over 3.5% per year, relatively high population
densities, competition for land from agriculture and the influx of nearly one
million refugees from ozasmbique have combined to cause rapid depletion of wood
resources in many parts of the southern and central regions.
1.11     With IDA and other donors' support, the Government has taken a number
of initiatives to expand woodfuel supply and slow demand growth. During the
19800, about 20,000 hectares of eucalyptus plantations were established by the
Forestry Department. However, due to a combination of poor soils, inadequate
maintenance and termite damage, their average annual yield has been under
5m3/ha, less than 50% of target, and costs per unit have consequently been much
higher than forecast.  Reflecting this experience, the major emphasis of wood
supply policy has now shifted to improving the management of existing resources
and encouraging private tree planting. Under the ongoing IDA Energy I project,
the Vorestry department has expanded tree seedling production from its network
of nurseries, introduced a tree planting incentive payment sastem for private
farmers, and io expanding its extension, protection and wood revenue collection
activities.
1.12     Demand-side initiatives have focussed on improving the efficiency of
wood use in the tobacco industry, the largest commercial user of woodfuels,
primarily through the introduction of an energy-saving furnace design. This has
contributed to a dramatic reduction in wood consumption from 42m3 per tonne of
tobacco cured in 1984 to 30-20m3 per tonne in 1989, with consequential
environmental benefit. Tobacco curers are also being encouraged to use softwood
charcoal produced from the thinnings of the large Viphya pine forest in place of
traditional hardwood, with promising succees to date at larger estate farms. In
line with IDA's policy to diversify away from tobacco production (OD 4.76',
Malawi is pursuing a research-oriented approach, with which IDA agrees, to
enhance the production of alternative crops (cotton, soya beans, macademia nuts,
ground nuts, horticultural produce etc.). However, IDA also recognizes the need
for flexibility in applying the tobacco policy to a country like Malawi, which
is heavily dependent on tobacco for its foreign currency earnings. The proposed
Project therefore complements the activities under Energy I by providing
technical assistance for improved barn design for communal tobacco curing by
smallholders (paras. 2.25 and 4.11H) and encouraging the use of softwood



.4 -
charcoal.   In an effort to reduce household wood consumption, the Energy I
Project is introducing more efficienc charcoal cooking stoves, initially in
Blantyre and later in Lilongwe and Mzuzu.  They are based on a Kenyan design and
qan produce fuel savings of 30-45%. Several thousand have been manufactured by
local artisans and sold through hardware stores in Blantyre.
1.13     In an effort to discourage charcoal productior. from indigenous trees
oA customary land and stimulate sale of charcoal from the Viphya Forest and other
forest reserves, the Government has recently prohibited the sale of hardwood
charcoal. However, the long transport distance to market and low density of
softwood charcoal from the Viphya have resulted in deterioration during
transport, high delivered cost and red'c. i combustion efficiency, v,hich have
dampened consumer interest in the softw  t alternative.  Achievement of the
Energy I Project's objecti-te of commercia.-.4zing the charcoal production and
marketinp is being Impeded due to these difficulties.   The Government hae,
however, taken the positive step of legalizing the licensing of private charcoal
production from the Viphya by the Forestry Department.   The Viphya Wood
Corporation, in collaboration with the Forestry Department, is also investigating
the briquetting of softwood charcoal to reduce transport damage.
1.14     Petroleum Products.  Con*numption of petroleum products, all of which
are imported in refined form, totalled about 150 million liters in 1989. Prior
to the outbreak of civil war in Mozambique, the products were imported through
the Mozambique port of Beira, the nearest deep-water port to the main consumption
centers in Malawi.  During the 1980s, insecurity in Mozambique forced Malawi to
diversify its source of supply. In 1989, just over half (54%) of supplies were
procured from the Republic of South Africa via Zimbabwe, 20% from Dar-es-Salaam
in Tanzania, 13% from the Ndola refinery in Zambia and 12% from Beira. The
country has product stora&e capacity equivalent to three weeks consumption of
diesel and petrol, two weeks of paraffin and tw¢ months of jet fuel. Concerned
about this relatively small storage volume, the Government is planning to
construct 10,000m3 of additional petrol and diesel storage capacity, equivalent
to a'further three weeks of consumption.
1.15     The bulk of procurement is handled by the Industry Petroleum Supplies
Unit (IPSU), which is operated by OILCOM, one of four petroleum companies active
in the country. The purchases are usually made through OILCOM's international
shareholder, BP. The recently-established Petroleum Control Commission (PCC),
a public oversight body, has arranged some small-volume purchases from
neighboring Zambia and Zimbabwe and has recently tendered for a bulk shipment in
order to better assess the cost-effectiveness of the current procurement system.
With the exception of one storage depot owned by the Government for strategic
reasons, the major storage facilities are all owned and operated by the four
companies.   They also handle all petroleum wholesaling,  distribution and
retailing. OILCOM, the largest, has about 55% of the market, Mobil 22%, Caltex
15Z and Total 7Z. The investigations of the PCC, the preliminary findings of the
Energy Pricing study prepared under the Energy I Project and a review of
petroleum procurement procedures by the appraisal mission suggest there is
potential to reduce the cost of petroleum procurement, storage and bulk marketing
through the introduction of more competition into the process. The PCC is the
organ4zation currently best placed and equipped to inject that competition. The
proposed project therefore provides technical assistance to the PCC to examine
tha scope for and means by which it could reduce the cost of petroleum supply,



-5-
and for a review of its legal framework to Ider.tify any changes that would be
needed for it to play a more a4tivist role it the study suggests such a role
would be cost-effective (para. 4.11G).
1.16     Electricity.  A total of 569GWh of electricity was consumed in 19909
equivalent to about 70 kWh per capita.  Some 40,000 consumers are currently
connected to the grid, of which about 32,000 are residential consumers and most
of the remainder are small businesses. ESCOM's ten largest customers accounted
for 30% of total salee in 1990, the most important of which are Sucoma (a augar
estate) v Blantyre Water Board and David Whitehead (textiles). Small industrial,
commercial, government and agricultural consumers accounted for 52% of sales and
residential consumers for the remaining 18%. Reflecting low average household
incomes and the high proportion of rural dwellers, only about 2% of Malawian
households have access to electricity. (There are however a considerable number
of urban and periurban potential consumers presently unconnected due partly to
ESCOM's policy of requiring new customers the pay 90% of the cost of system
extensions. This is being addressed by an on-going tariff study under the Energy
I Project.) Over the period 1985-90, zonsumption grew by an average of 7.2% per
year, slightly belaw the twenty-year average growth rate of e.5%.
1.17     Coal.   Total consumption of coal in 1990 was about 53,000 tonnes,
43,000 of which was supplied from MIDCOR's two mines at Kaziwiziwi and Mchenga,
primarily the latter. The security situation and restricted access to foreign
exchange limited imports from the Moatize mine in Mozambique, the least-cost
source, to 8,000 tonnes. The major consumers are Portland Cement (33%) and David
Whitehead (23%).
Organization and Plann ng of the Energy Sector
1.18     The Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) is responsible
for biomass and hydrocarbon energy resources. Biomass supply issues are dealt
with by the Forestry Department of the same ministry. The Petroleum Control
Commission (PCC) is responsible for oversight of petroleum supply and marketing,
and production and supply of coal is handled by the Mining Investment and
Development Corporation (MIDCOR)e The generation, transmission and distribution
of electricity is the responsibility of the Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCON). PCC, MIDCOR and ESCOM are 3 of the 41 parastatals, with varying
degrees of autonomy, established by the Government to discharge those activities
which it judged could not effectively be handled by the private sector or by the
civil ser7ice. The Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB), established by the
Government in 1980 in the Office of the Prosident and Cabinet, exercises control
over the parastatals through their respective Boards. Board members include a
representative of the ministry with direct oversight responsibility for the
parastatal, the Ministry of Finance (ex-officio) and other organizations or
individuals having relevant qualifications and experience.   The oversight
ministries responsible for the energy sector are MFNR (woodfuel, petroleum
exploration, coal) and Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (petroleum supply,
pow3r). Annex 2.1 shows the management of the planning process of parastatal
activities at government level.
1.19     The Energy Planning Division under the Department of the Economic
Planning and Development (EPD) is the responsible unit for energy policy
formulation and energy sector planning. This was established under the technical



-6-
assistance program of IDA's credit 1428-MAI, and continued its activity to-date
through the support provided by the UNDP Project 786/010 (executed by the Bank)
through the provision of: (i) an energy advisor; (ii) graduate studies and
training; and (iii) computer hardware and software.  The least cost power
development program (resulting in the prioritization of the Tedeani III hydro
power plant, being implemented under Energy I, and the Kapichira hydro scheme,
the main component of the proposed project) has been co-ordinateod by the Energy
Division's predecessor, the Energy Planning Unit. An Energy Plan, setting out
priorities and outlining options, has also been prepared. The Division was the
implementing unit for the Energy Pricing Study funded under the Energy I Project.
Updating of the Energy Plan on a regular basis, strengthening energy planning
activities at sub-sector and at government levels, and preparing recommendations
to Government on energy issues as they arise will continue to be the role of the
Energy Planning Division under EPD.   The proposed project provides  for
strengthening of the Division through assistance in the formulation of a
household energy strategy and provision of experts and training on as-needed
basis "para. 4.11F). Unfortunately, two high level, experienced and well-trained
economists have resigned recently from the Division to take better-paid jobs
outside the Government.   In an effort to maintain the Energy Division's
capability in energy planning and policy analysis, the appointment of at least
one additional experienced economist in the Division will be a condition of
disbursement of the proposed Power V Credit. However, the sustainability of
these functions cannot be assured in the long term unless the government is
prepared to address the issue of inadequate salaries for skilled civil servants.
Government's Enerav Sector Obiectives and Strateag
1.20     The Government's Statement of Development Policies, 1987-1996, and the
subsequent National Energy Plan for 1988-1997 set out the main objectives and
strategies for the Energy Sector in Malawi. The objectives are: (a) minimizing
the impact of the high cost and of the uncertainties in supply of imported oil
and coal; (b) developing a sustainable program to meet woodfuel and construction
needs; and (c) developing electric power supply in a least-cost manner to meet
the demands of the economic and social development of the country. To achieve
these objectives, the Government has laid out the following strategies: (a)
improving  the  procurement  and  distribntion  of  petroleum,  including  the
establishment of a national strategic res,_ve; (b) supporting the production of
ethanol for blending with petrol as transport fuel; (c) exploring for and
undertaking coal mining activity; (d) enlcouraging conservation of woodfuel
resources including conversion of forest thinnings to softwood charcoal; (e)
developing and implementing a least cost power development program; and (f)
strengthening energy sector institutions to plan, manage and operate their sub-
sectoral activities and Government's capability for energy planning and co-
ordination. The Government hae also been negotiating directly with international
oil companies to explore for hydrocarbon resources.
1.21     The Government is taking a variety of initiatives to improve the
management of wood energy resources on a cost effective and environmentally sound
basis.  Thase are being actively supported by the ongoing Energy I Project,
funded by IDA, as discussed in paragraph 1.12 above. A mid-term review of the
wood energy component of the Energy I Project, planned for 1992, will assess the
success of these initiatives and will redirect the emphasis of the project where



-7-
necessary. The mid term review is also expected to generate policy options and
strategies for future wood energy programs.
1.22     In the area of commercial energy, indigenous hydro-electricity is both
the least cost and most reliable source of supply.  Therefore a top priority of
the Government, which this project will support, is to develop the country's
hydro resources at a rate sufficient to meet demand at full cost-recovery prices.
This will ensure both adequate availability of commercial energy to support
economic development and growth and that this energy is supplied at minimum
economic cost and in a manner that minimizes the conmitment of scarce foreign
exchange. In an effort to reduce the cost of imported petroleum, the Government
has established the PCC to supervise petroleum procurement and distribution.
Coal exploration has been redirected from the north to the south, which is closer
to the main markets.  However, coal production, thtough uneconomic, is still
proceeding in the north. Ethanol blending is reducing petroleum imports by about
7%. The initial phase of the current least-cost power development program is
under implementation (para. 1.17). An Energy Pricing Study, funded under Energy
IT will assist the rationalization of pricing policies for solid and liquid
fuels. The Government's energy institution-building effort is achieving the
desired goal of more effective energy planning and co-ordination. With donor
assistance, the power utility has substantially improved its capability to plan
and manage its operations. The initiatives the Government is pursuing will be
further enhanced by the proposed project through the assistance to be provided
to ESCOM, the PCC and the EPD.
Exoerience with Past and Ongoinsa Lending
1.23     The World Bank has provided three credits and one loan for power to
Malawi. A fourth Credit, Energy I (Cr. 1990-HAI), of US$46.7 million was granted
in 1990 and is devoted partly to power (68%) and partly to wood energy. The
first IDA credit (178-MAI) for US$ 5.25 million was made in 1970 to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of the Tedzani hydroelectric power plant. The second
stage of Tedzani and a 15NW standby gas plant in Blantyre were financed with a
second IDA credit (426-MAI) of US$7.5 million and a loan of US$6 million from the
Commonwealth Developmex.t Corporation (CDC). A total amount of US$25 million was
provided in three lots to finance the civil works component of he 80MW Nkula B
hydroelectric power plant. The first lot (Loan 1387-NAI) of US$9 million was
supplemented by a second loan (1388-HAl) of US$8 million and a credit (691-NAI)
of US$8 million. CDC, the African Development Bank (AfDB) and Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufban  (KfW) provided US$82 million towards  the cost of Nkula B.
(Presently KfW is funding the installation of the fifth 20NW unit at Nkula B).
A Special Project Preparation Facility provided by IDA in 1986 assisted in the
preparation of the least cost power development program which formed the basis
for the ongoing Energy I Project (Cr.1990-MAI) and the proposed Power V Project.
1.24     Credit  1428-MAI  asGisted  the  Government  in  establishing  and
strengthening a planning unit in the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (presently the Energy Planning Division of EPD). Credit 992-MAI
(US$13.82 million) was the first forestry sub-sector credit given in 1980 to
assist periurban woodfuel plantation schemes. A second loan of US$16.7 million
(Loan 2670-HAI) was provided in 1986 for the Wood Energy II Project to reorient
the Government away from wood production and towards the establishment of a
policy framework to encourage private wood production, conservation and more



- 8 -
efficient utilization of existing biomass resources. The IBRD loan has since
been canceled, the remaining component of the Wood Energy II Loan reappraised,
and included as part of the Energy I Credit 1990-MAI.
1.25     The Project Completion Reports for the loans and credits (Cr. 691-MAI,
Ln.1387 and Ln.1388-MIA) listed above underscore that the main objectives of the
power projects have been achieved, and have made significant contributions to the
provision of efficient and reliable power supply in Malawi. The institutional
strengthening efforts have had a marked influence on the operation of ESCOM. The
lessons learnt emphasize, among others, the possible impact of bad rocks even on
short tunnels, the impact of transport difficulties on implementation schedules
and the influence of economic development and price increases on load forecasts.
These lessons have been reflected in the design of the on-going Energy I Project.
ESCOM staff has been trained in demand forecasting, the results of which are
reviewed regularly, taking into account the growth of the economy, industrial
consumptions and historical trends for the commercial and domestic consumers.
These are checked against long-term forecasts made by consultants in connection
with the least cost power development program. Timing of the components of the
IPPS is thus reviewed continuously.
Energv Priciin
1.26     Prices of most petroleum products (diesel, petrol and kerosene), of
electricity and of coal are set by the Government, based on proposals from the
industries concerned. Petroleum nroduct prices are based on a "deemed" landed
price, which nominally reflects the weighted average CIF border cost of products
, delivered via the different supply routes.  In the case of diesel and petrol,
taxes, duties, contributions to the Price Stabilization Fund and the paraffin
subsidy are added to the deemed CIF price. In the case of paraffin, taxes and
duties are added and the subsidy deducted.  The net effect is to reduce the
deemed CIF price for paraffin by 7.5 tambala/liter. Regulated wholesale and
retail margins, whach vary slightly between the three products, are then added
to obtain the fine! consumer prices.  Consumer prices of diesel and petrol,
respectively K2.0/litre (US$0.69/liter) and K2.3/liter (US$0.79/liter) in mid-
1991, were above the economic cost of supply. Paraffin was priced about 10%
below the cost of supply at market exchange rates. The Energy Pricing Study
prepared under the Energy I Project recommends: (a) elimination of the paraffin
subsidy, on the grounds that it principally benefits better-off families; (b)
more rigorous review of margins; (c) introduction of off-shore tendering to
compete with OILCOM procurement; and (d) the establishment of common storage, to
be available on a fee basis to any wholesaler or retailer. The Government is
currently considering these recommendations. The proposed technical assistunce
to the PCC (para 4.11 F) will examine the potential and means for the PCC to help
implement recommendations (b), (c) and (d).
1.27     Electricity  tariffs  are proposed  by ESCOM  and approved by  the
Government.    In  FY90/91,  ESCOM's  average  tariff was  tambalas  12.4/kWh
(USc4.4/kWh). While low by international standards, this was sufficient to cover
all ESCOM's operating and debt service costs and to finance 33% of capital
expenditures in that year.   Tariffs are usually increased annually at the
beginning of each fiscal year. The FY91/92 tariffs, in effect from April 1,
1991, average at tambalas 13.5/kWh (USc4.7/kWh) (Annex 5.1). A thorough tariff
study is nearing completion financed under the Energy I Project. The interim



-9-
conclusions of the study suggest that, with the exception of the "general"
cAtegory of consumers, tariffs are below the long run marginal cost of supply at
the appropriate voltage level. The study also confirms the mission's assessment
that tariffs will need to rise in real terms during the 1990s to cover the costs
of ESCOM's ambitious power investment program. ESCOM and the Government have
agreed to review and discuss with the IDA the results of the tariff study and to
begin implementation of its recommendations on tariff structure with effect from
April 1993.
1.28     Domestic  coal grices  are  proposed  by MIDCOR  and  its monopoly
transporter, AMI, and approved by Government.  With the exception of Portland
Cement, the largest consumer, MIDCOR sells exclusively through AMI at a price of
KIOO/tonne (US$35/tonne) ex-mnie in mid-1991. Portland Cement, which arranges
its own transport, was paying about K90/tonne (US$31/tonne) ex-mine. The ANI
coal price is about 25Z above current production costs, but below forecast long-
term production costs. It is 35% higher than the ex-mine cost of coal from the
Moatize mine in Mozambique, transport of which is also cheaper than Mchenga coal
to the main markets in southern Malawi. Security problems on the route from
Moatize and restricted access to foreign exchange currency allow MIDCOR/AMI to
dominate the market despite their higher prices.
II. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
The Borrower
2.1      The Government of Malawi would be the Borrower for the proposed IDA
Credit of SDR39.2 million (US$55 million equivalent) for Power V Project.
2.2      The Government would on-lend to ESCOM US$53.75 million at the current
IBRD rate (paras 4.16) to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange costs
of the power component of the project. SDR427,000 (US$6000,000 equivalent) would
be assigned to the Department of Economic Planning and Development (4.11F),
SDR178,000 (US$250,000 equivalent) to the Petroleum Control Commission (4.11G)
and SDR285,000 (US$400,000 equivalent) to the Tobacco Control Commission (4.11H)
to assist in the strengthening of the respective institutions in planning and
managing energy related activities including research.
The Implementinp Agencies
Electricity Suppl Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)
2.3      Institutional Set MR.  ESCOM is a state owned parastatal (corporation)
established by the Electricity Act of 1963 when it took over the assets and
liabilities of the former Nyasaland Electricity Supply Commission which was
established under the Electricity Act, 1956, of the former Federation of Rhodesia
and Nyasaland. ESCOM is empowered by its Act to generate, acquire or supply
electricity. ESCOM exercises control on electricity generated by others by the
power granted to it under the Act to recommend to the minister responsible the
licensing or renewal of licenses of suppliers with an installed capacity in
excess of twenty kilowatts.



- 10 _
2.4      The Commission as established, consists of a chairman and not more than
seven members appointed for a period of two years by the minister responsible for
ESCOM (the President of the Republic of Malawi). The Secretary to the Treasury
or his representative, the Secretary for Economic Planning and Development or his
representative and the Secretary for Trade and Industry or his representative are
ex-officio members.   Presently, the seven appointed members consist of the
General Manager of the Bureau of Standards, the CDC representative in Lilongwe,
the representative of private industries (sugar, agriculture, garages ...9) the
representative of breweries and three representatives of the business community
(economic services, women's and men's business associations). Presently, the
Chairman is the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi.
2.5      ESCOM reports to the Governmentt through the Department of Statutory
Bodies (DSB). At least three government departments have direct interest in the
operations of ESCOM. ESCOM's linkages with other government departments is shown
in Annex 2.1. DSB is the principal Government body responsible for overviewing
all parastatals of which ESCOM is one of Malawi's 41 parastatals. Although its
legal mandate is not gazetted, it is set up to: (i) assist parastatals in sound
financial management; and (ii) overview,guidelines related to employment,
salaries, fringe and other benefits including vehicle use and housing allowances
for parastatal employees.   ESCOM also liaises with the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism (MITT) and its Secretary is one of the ex-officio members
of ESCOM's Commissioners  (para. 2.4).   MITT is infofmed on projects under
implementation as well as on major new investments and tariff issues, and
represents ESCOM's interests at Congress and Cabinet meetings. ESCOM also works
closely with the Department of Economic Planning and Development (EPD). EPD is
responsible for ensuring the economic viability of energy projects at macro
level. ESCOM's loans require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance.
ESCOM is not allowed to correspond directly with the World Bank. Consequently
bid documents are transmitted by ESCOM to DSB which transmitts through the
Ministry of Finance to the World Bank.  This procedure is causing delays in
procurement and the need for its relaxation is addressed in para. 4.20.
2.6      Under the present arrangement, most decisions made at Commissioners'
level are referred, through DSB, to Government authorities for final approval.
The result is long delay in decision making, severely curtailing ESCOM's
efficiency in managing its affairs.
2.7   \ The Government, recognizing the weakness of the institutional framework
undertook a studyl/, with the assistance of the Bank and UNDP, to improve the
role of DSB and introduce efficiency and accountability of parastatals. DSB
would overview corporate plans, and monitor and evaluate results.   ESCOM's
Commissioners and management would maintain the automony provided by the Act,
acting independently on administrative and operational matters, including setting
of remunerations for employees, hiring and firing, promoting and taking
appropriate disciplinary actions. EPD would continue to liaise with DSB on the
economic viability of ESCOM's major projects. The role of the parent ministry
(MITT) was expected to remain the same. ESCOM's power under its Act, such as its
power to enter into a contract, is being gradually eroded by subsequent practices
1/   Malay!: Report on Paraotatal Restructuring (January 28, 1987; No. 6543-MAI) parastatal
(self contained organization normally created by a state).



- 11 -
and legislation. These have resulted in delaying project implementation and in
decisions, impeding urgent action. Discussions on the parastatal reform program,
with concrete recommendations to improve the role and the accountability of
ESCOM's Board of Commissioners and its senior management, should be re-activated.
Specific recommendations would include reinstating ESCOM's power under the Act
on matters related to motivation, promotion, transfer, hiring and firing of
employees and on extending ESCOM's power to execute construction contracts beyond
the limit of K500,000 (US$2500000) for works and R250,000 (US$100,000) for goods
and K100,000 for services which are very low for ESCOM's operations.   This
limitation has now been gazetted.  It was agreed at negotiations to increase
ESCOM's procurement limit for mandatory review by Government to US$300,000 for
purposes of the proposed Project.
2.8      Management and StaffinA. ESCOM continues to be a well managed utility.
The post of the General Manager, filled by an expatriate since ESCOM's
establishment in 1963, has been filled by a Malawian national, who was a Deputy
General Manager, since January, 1990. The former expatriate General Manager was
acting as Chief Technical Advisor to the General Manager, carrying out a
commendable job in reviewing major project documents, from feasibility studies
to bid documents and evaluation of major bids, until his retirement in June,
1991. The organization structure of ESCOM is shown in Annex 2.2. The post of
the General Manager is approved by the Minister. (The first Malawian General
Manager passed away in May, 1991, following a sudden illness. The Deputy General
Manager is acting. Selection to fill the post was in progress during appraisal.)
The posts of the Deputy General Manager, the Chief Engineers, the Commission
Secretary and the Financial Controller are approved by the Secretary to the
Office of the President as are, since recently, the posts of the 20 mangers
reporting to the four Department Heads. The recommendations of ESCOM's Board of
Commissioners is taken into consideration in the above appointments. The post
of the Financial Controller, filled by an expatriate since ESCOM's establishment,
has also been filled by a Malawian national since January, 1991. Presently there
is only one expatriate (Switchgear Instructor) in ESCOM. However, the need for
expertise in technical areas is recognized. The project provides for training
and expert services.
2.9      ESCOM's total staff at the end of February 1991 totalled 2176,
excluding temporary labor force which varies from time to time depending on the
volume of activity. This averages 8.50Z increase annually during the last three
years. This high percentage increase is accounted for by the increase in number
of projects in which ESCOM is directly involved. ESCOM is aware of this rapid
increase and is controlling staff additions in areas other than the professional
categories. Presently there are 5 vacancies in the professional categories which
ESCOM plans to fill through promotions from within the organization and through
recruitment and training.
2.10     ESCOM has difficulties in attracting professionals and personnel with
technical skill because of the standardized salary structure for all parastatals.
The salary level is not competitive enough with the private sector.
Consequently, ESCOM hae been a training ground, particularly for accountants.
The parastatal reform program had recommended rewarding of staff in accordance
with performance. This recommendation has not, as yet, been put into effect.
ESCOM therefore reverts to the introduction of indirect benefits which could be
applied only for limited posts and professions. The Government has informed at



_ 12 -
negotiations that it is studying incentive packages to better attract and retain
staff in parastatal organizations, including ESCOM. IDA's supervision missions
will closely monitor the impact of the planned measures.
2.11     Planning and Engineerine.   ESCOM has established a Planning Unit
consisting of two engineers (one of whom is the head of the UJnit) and one
economist.    Two members were  given  intensive  on-the-job  training  at  a
consultant's headquarters in England, followed by hands on experience in carrying
out a lose reduction study in ESCOM8's system under the guidance of the
consultant. The Planning Unit is uIow equipped with PCs and is undertaking, with
no external support, demand £oreaasting and distribution system planning. With
the necessary software and the planned short term training, the Unit will soon
be in a position to do generation and transmission system planning. The Unit
should be strengthened in terms of professional staff, computers and related
facilities. The Project provides funds for training ESCOM staff and for the
acquisition of computer hardware and software (para 4.11E).
2.12     ESCOM has developed expertise in the design and construction of
distribution  lines  and  substations.    ESCOM  is  also  experienced  in  the
installation of 132 or 66kV substations and in the major rehabilitation work of
its transmission facilities. ESCOM would therefore be able to carry out in-house
transmission and distribution rehabilitation and reinforcement works assisted,
where necessary, by local contracting under its supervision.    Engineering
consultants would be used to design and supervise the major component of the
project - the Kapichira scheme.
2.13     The Government has consulted the Association on the recent appointment
of the Financial Controller. To ensure the continuation of ESCOM's capability
to manage the project and its operations, the Government should consult the
Association on appointees to senior posts. During negotiations, Agreement was
reached that the Government and ESCOM would: (i) consult with IDA on the
qualifications and experience of appointees to the posts of General Manager and
those senior positions reporting directly to the General Manager (Deputy General
Manager, Chief Engineer, Financial Controller and Commission Secretary and others
that may be introduced following possible changes on the organization structure)
and (ii) take into consideration the views expressed by the Association on the
appointments.
2.14     Qperations and Haintenance. ESCOM's physical plant, which includes the
generating stations and the transmission and distribution facilities, are all
properly maintained and competently managed.   However, the passing away of
ESCOM's General Manager combined with the retirement of the Chief Technical
Advisor has created a temporary vacuum at the professional and managerial level.
Improvements in remuneration and incentives to attract and retain qualified and
experienced staff are the key factors to resolve these problems.
2.15     Account4na and Audits.   The accounts records of ESCOM are well
maintained. Monthly financial reports are submitted to management, including
performance measured against budget by department. Customer billing and payrolls
are computerized and efficient. Cost control, which is also computerized, is
exercised by cost centers and reporting of actuals against budgets is submitted
monthly by each ESCOM station. Stores, project coste, fixed assets, payables and
the general ledger are operated on manual systems. ESCOM's finance and computer



- 13 -
staff are considering to develop fully integrated computerized system with
technical assistance support ae may be needed.
2.16     Billinsz and Collection.  Meters are normally read and billed monthly.
All customer billing is computerized and bills are prepared and billed regularly
every month.   At June 30, 1991, the value of unpaid bills in the Accounts
Receivable was equal to 63 days of revenue. This indicates a marked improvement
in performance relative to figures of 69 and 66 for FYs 89/90 and 90/91
respectively (Annex 5.19 para 5.7).
2.17     Data Processing. ESCOM's billing and payroll systems are computerized.
Attempts have been made to extend computerization to stock control and to other
financial transactions.  However, the computer unit is understaffed and key
positions in the Finance Department including the computer unit are vacant.
Effective accounting systems could not be developed without a comprehensive and
a clearly definad "user" requirements, particularly if the computerization is to
serve, as it should, the needs of other departments in addition to that of
Finance. The proposed Project provides for technical assistance to develop a
strategy and to define the extent and phasing of computerization of ESCOM's
overall operations.
2.18     The computer equipment presently installed at ESCOM's headquarters in
Blantyre consists of a main frame and a processing unit, with an additional
processor installed in Lilongwe. Under the Energy I Credit two minicomputers
were purchased for Lilongwe and Mzuzu to convert these two centers of ESCOM's
activity to data processing centers for nearby districts (Annex 4.1, ....).
Subject to the findings of the technical assistance experts (para 2.16), the
proposed Project will provide one computer system for the headquarters to replace
the existing mainframe computer which is approaching its limit in terms of
capacity and is also being superseded by more modern technology,  and 18
microcomputers for the districts to be linked to the main area centers of
Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Blantyre (para 4.11E).
2.19     Training.  ESCOM's performance in training its staff and employees is
noteworthy.  Over the years it has trained a total of over 200 employees in
various fields relevant to its activities. Most of its training is done by local
institutions including its own Training Center which caters for distribution
artisans where to-date 180 of them have been trained since its establishment in
1980.  Specialized training is provided for by sending members of its staff
abroad. There are six professionals currently studying abroad one each in human
resources development, financial accounting, telecommunication design, power
distribution and two in utility management. Six employees have returned recently
after completing higher degrees in business administration, economics, energy
management, metering and hydropower development. About 7A others have attended
short courses, local and abro&d, in the areas of relevance to ESCOM's operation
in the short span of one year. A bonding agreement is entered with the staff on
training to ensure minimum period of service upon their return.
2.20     ESCOM presently trains two accountants in Malawi and will continue
providing scholarships for its accountants at the Malawi College of Accountancy.
One accountant, doing higher degree in finance and accounting, is expected to
return shortly.



- 14 -
2.21     The objectives of ESCOM's training program euiphasize capacity building
in the areas of finance, engineering, administration and management. ESCOM needs
to match its manpower resources with the rapid growth of the system. ESCOM has
submitted to Government a comprehensive manpower development plan covering the
period  1991-1997.    The  plan  provides,  among  others,  for  graduate  and
undergraduate studies and short term specialized courses abroad in the areas of
ESCOM's operations.  The Project provides funds for training and Kapichira's
implementation will have a built-in component for on-the-job training on the
design, assembly, supervision of construction, and operation of a power facility.
ESCOM will continue to finance from its own resources training provided locally.
ESCOM's Training Center would be provided with training aids to assist in the
basic understanding of generation and transmission system operation, maintenance
and trouble shooting.
2.22     Insurance and Taxes.  ESCOM maintains insurance coverage on all assets
against the risks of breakdown of plant and equipment, fire , loss and damage for
property installed or stored or in transit as well as for liability to third
parties in accordatnce with normal practice in power utilities. The insurance
cover is satisfactory and is reviewed periodically to assure adequacy. ESCOM is
normally exempt from import duties or other levies on materials, equipment and
machinery on project financed from foreign sources but is liable for import
duties of 30% on goods financed by its own sources under its revenue budget.
ESCOM's Act does not require it to pay dividend to the Government, but is liable
for corporate tax of 40Z on its surplus.   However, with capital investment
allowances of 45-55% carried forward per year on new projects, ESCOM4 is not
expected to pay corporate tax during the lifetime of the proposed Project.
Imnlementing Agencies for Non-Power Comgonents
2.23     The Enerav Division.  The Energy Division, under EPD headed by a
Principal Secretary, is responsible for energy planning activities at Government
level.  It is headed by a Principal Economist and assisted by an expatriate
Energy Advisor who, until March 1991, was funded by a UNDP project for which the
Bank was the Executing Agency.  Under the same  project two economists did
graduate studies in USA in energy economics and returned in 1990. One has left
the Division and has been replaced by a junior economist. The Energy Advisor's
contract has expired and sources of financing a replacement is being discussed
between the Government and UNDP. The Division should be strengthened to enable
it play a leading role in energy policy formulation and co-ordination.  The
Project provides training and technical assistance on as-needed basis.  The
Division, under the guidance of EPD, will be responsible for: (i) supervising the
implementation of the energy planning and policy formulation sub-component of the
Project (para 4.11F); and (ii) the implementation of the recommendations of the
ongoing energy pricing study under Energy I. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the Government would take the views of IDA into account and begin
implementation of the agreed recommendations on the energy pricing study not
later than April 1,1993.
2.24     The Pgtrgleum Control Cionmiision.  The Petroleum Control Commission
will be responsible for the petroleum procurement and sourcing included in the
proposed Project (para 4.11G). The PCC Act of 1986 empowers it to supervise the
procurement of petroleum products, ensure the provision of adequate oil storage
facilities, set minimum stock levels for the oil industry, and recommend changes



- 15 -
in petroleum prices including provision for petroleum stabilization fund. PCC
moritors international oil prices and the private stock level of petroleum in
Halawi. PCC also formulates an emergency fuel allocation plan in the event of
disruption of supply and aims at establishing its own strategic fuel reserve
capacity.  PCC's mandate the Act is supervisory.  The proposed Project will
review the procurement, transport and bulk storage arrangements in Malawi and
will recommend a legal framework empowering PCC to take appropriate actions to
ensure least cost petroleum supply, including direct bulk procurement and bulk
sales as well as construction and operation of bulk storage facilitUs.
Tobacco Control Commission
2.25     The Tobacco Control Commission (TCC) is a parastatal reporting to DSB.
TCC will be the implementing agency for the energy efficiency sub-component of
the proposed Project.   TCC supervisesG  among others, the Tobacco Research
Institute which, under Energy I, was assisted on energy efficiency initiatives
in tobacco curing. In 1984 tobacco curing accounted for about 23% of Malawi's
woodfuel consumption, being second only to household woodfuel consumption.
Experiments under Energy I at commercial farms have resulted in savings of about
30% in woodfuel consumption for tobacco curing. The Project provides technical
assistance to demonstrate a more efficient barn design for tobacco curing by
smallholder farmers with the main objective of moderating the excessive negative
environmental impact of inefficient woodfuel consumption (para. 4.11H).
Existing Power Facilities
2.26     Generation System.  ESCOM generates almost 99.9% of its electricity
from a cascaded group of interconnected hydroelectric power plants located on the
Shire river. Their total installed capacity is 144MW. A 15MW gas turbine plant
in Blantyre, a 5.4 MW diesel power plant in Lilongwe and a 2MW diesel power plant
in Mzuzu serve as stand-by for the interconnected system. The northern towns of
Karonga and Chitipa are supplied by diesel power plants, having a total installed
capacity of 1190kW. A rural electrification program (para. 4.2) is planned to
replace these diesel plants with a 4MW hydroelectric plant.  The generation
facilities of ESCOM are summarized in Table 2.1 below and are detailed in Annex
2.4.  The hydroelectric power plants are well maintained, and their average
availability in 1990 was 90% (Annex 2.4), decreasing below the pre-1990 average
of 92%. The diesel power plants are old and could support only peaking capacity
with provision of spares under the on-going Energy I Project. The attached map
(IBRD Map no.23398) shows the location of existing and planned power plants and
transmission facilities of ESCOM.
Table 2.1
ESCOH'. Generatint Canacity in 1990
Type of      Inastalled                Dependable          1990  Firm
Plant                     CaeaRitv HW  Capacity MW           GWh ¢Wh
iCS
BHyro                     144.6              124.0 (a)     703.9        860 (b)
Stand-by gas 15.0          12.0              --             --
Stand-by diesels           7.5-
167.1             136.0          703.9        860
SCS
Diesels     2.3           --                  2.6           --
al Assumes 20EW reserve
b/ Based on 136 m3lsec and 922 availability.



- 16 -
2.27      A number of tobacco and sugar estates and religious missions produce
their electricity for their own use.  The estimated total capacity is 26MW.
About 50% of this capacity us8a bagasse from the sugar estates. Where viable,
ESCOM is extending its distribution network to replace the captive plants. A
summary list of the private plants is given in Annex 2.4.
2.28      The availability of Nkula A was low at 82% in 1990.  This is accounted
for by planned outages to carry out repair works on the units. The 4 x 10 MW
Tedzani units are showing increased frequency of unplanned outages. This is due
to the design of the cooling water system, instability of turbine governors and
damaged voltage regulators. Runner blades, runner seals and liners are also
showing signs of deterioration. Inspection of the first 2 units of Nkula B shows
deterioration in runner seals and lines. The Project provides for technical
asoistance to audit the conditions of the turbines of Nkual A and Tedzani I Units
and to specify the measures needed to be implemented under the proposed Energy
1I Project. The proposed Project also provides for the acquisition of spare
parts for the gas turbine and standby diesel power plants (para. 4.16 B, 4.169).
2.29      Load Disnatch Center.   ESCOM's load dispatch center, stationed in
Blantyre, records and controls the generation plants and the 132/66/33kV
substations with the help of the SCADA (System Control and Data Acquisition)
system.   The existing Center will be extended to provide for the on-going
generation and transmission system expansion under the Energy I Project.
2.30      Lilongwe is a major consumption center.  It does not, however, have
an effective load control center to facilitate operations of the subtransmission
and distribution systems.   The proposed project provides installation of a
distribution center for purposes of data collection end storage and to reduce
outage times of the sub-transmission and distribution systems (micro SCADA
system) of Lilongwe (para. 4.11C).
2.31      Transmission and Distribution SYstems. ESCOM's highest transmission
voltage  is  132kV.    The  next  level  of  transmission  voltage  is  66kV.
Subtransmission is at 33kV. Distribution is effected at 11/.4kv. ESCOM's 1990
transmission system consists of 416km of 132kV and 1018 km of 66kV lines. The
subtransmission and the distribution network consists of 1538 km of 33kV and
1776km of 11 kV of overhead lines with additional 81km of 11kV underground
cables. The substation transformer capacity, excluding generation plants, totals
187.5 MVA. The corresponding figure for distribution transformer capacity is 255
MVA,  excluding 92MVA 33/11kV subtransmission capacity.   The distribution
transformer capacity is slightly under a factor of 2 (normal indicators 2 to 4)
relative to the 1990 maximum demand of 119 MW indicating the need for increasing
the distribution capacity in the existlng system.
2.32      Most of the 66kV transmission and practically all of the distribution
network use locally impregnated wooden poles.   The 265km transmission line,
designed and constructed for 132kV, presently being operated at 66kV and carrying
a peak load of about 8MW, is also constructed in impregnated poles and cross
arms. The 132kV 75km transmission line from Salima to Lilongwe has similar
features. Although the two lines have been in operation for less than 15 years,
the low quality of the impregnation process (presumably insufficiency of
seasoning, applied pressure etc.) has not provided the expected protection
against termites over a longer period of years.   Most of the poles and a



- 17 -
substantial number of cross arms are in very poor condition. The condition of
these lines has made it necessary for ESCOM to carry out preventive maintenance
on the wooden poles and cross arms regularly every week-end. In 1990, over 85Z
of the almost 600 hours of the planned outages and about 902 of the 190 hours of
the forced outages in ESCOM'S transmission system (Annex 2.4) were accounted for
by these lines. The proposed Project provides for the replacement of the wooden
structures by steel structures (para 4.i1C). The planned outages will become
negligible upon the completion of the proposed reconstruction which should also
substantially reduce the forced outages of the region. Lilongwe's reliability
of supply will also improve when the ongoing construction of the second 132kV
line between Nkula and Lilongwe (para. 4.2 and 4.5) is completed.
2.33      The system locses of ESCOM were reasonable at under 10% up to about
1980 (Annex 2.4).   Since then, however, the losses have been growing at an
increasing rate and presently stand at the high figure of 18.7Z.  A loss
reduction study, undertaken by ESCOM with the assistance of ESMAP, has identified
metar reading errors at power plants and main substations accounting for about
32 of the losses.   Administrative measures are in progress to reduce the
contribution of non-technical losses. The transmission and distribution system
study under the on-going Energy I Project will identify reinforcement and
expansion needs with due regard to improving systen reliability and losses. The
additional 132kV line between Nkula and Lilongwe, due for commissioning by 1993,
is also expected to reduce the losses at transmission level. The Project also
provides materials and equipment for reconductoring, sectionalizing the
distribution network, improving power factors and increasing distribution
transformer capacity, all of which are expected to improve the system losses to
at least 12% by mid-1990s. The Project also provides for improvement of ESCOMWs
billing and collection system through the acquisition of computer software and
hardware (para. 4.11 C and 4.11 E) which will contribute to the reduction of non-
technical losses.
III. THE ELECTRICITY MARKET
Recent Demand Trends
3.1       Total electricity sales on the ESCOM interconnected system rose from
404 GWh in 1985 to 569 GWh in 1990, an average annual increase of 7.12 (table 3.1
below). The highest increase was in the General/Commercial consumer category,
followed by the low density residential category; the lowest was in the small
industry category. Over the same period system maximum demand rose from 64.3 MW
to 95.9 NW, an average annual increase of 8.3% (Annex 3.1). These growth rates
were achieved despite modest average GDP growth rates of 3.1% per annum over the
period.
3.2       The composition of demand over the 1985-90 period is shown in Table
3.1. In 1990, the small industries category of consutmers accounted for 36% of
demand, twelve large industries for 302, residential consumers for 18% and the
general/commercial category fer the remaining 16%. The load factor in 1990 was
a high 67%, reflecting the large share of industrial demand in the total.



- 18 -
Table 3.1
Composition of Electricity Demand. 1985-90 (GWh)
Average    X
CustmerQ rouc     1985    1986    1957    1988    1989    1990    Grawth 2  1985-90
Residential
Low Density     55.56   51.52    64.55    71.16  79.16   86.90      9.36   14.15
Sigh Density    11.80   12.55    12.49    13.60  14.94   15.75      5.96    2.81
General/ComDe:cial  55.58   62.02    68.27    74.89  80.51   89.43    10.02   14.91
Small industries   156.10  145.43   149.89   156.83 177.13   264.54  5.55   34.25
Large Industries   123.60   151.27   177.21   168.08 175.22   171.70  6.79   33.46
Exports           1.09    0.71      0.00     0.00   0 00    0.25     ..-      0.02
Total           403.73  433.50   472.59   484.56 526.97   568.77     7.09   100.00
3.3     Demand Prosections.  With the assistance of Kennedy and Donkin Power
Systems, ESCOM has developed a relatively sophisticated demand forecasting model
which was used to develop demand projections for the 1991-2005 -period.  The
forecast methodology combiness
(a)   individual projections for the consumption of ESCOM's 12 largest
industrial consumers, based on detailed diocussion with the
consumersi
(b)   projections of the numbers of high and low density residential
consumers and their anticipated average consumption based on recent
actual experience; and
(c)   projections of sales to small industries, commercial and general
consumers based on official sectoral output projections and observed
elasticities of electricity demand with respect to output.
gd)   The resulting demand projections are then adjusted to reflect the
impact of anticipated increases in real electricity prices over the
forecast period using estimated price elasticities. The sensitive
consumers to price changes are those in Low Density Domestic and the
General Tariff categories.   The proposed tariff increases (para
5.15) are, in real terms, below the tariff increases used in the
model for demand projections. Projected system losses are added to
the resulting consumption forecast to estimate required generation.
Using observed load duration curves and coincidence factors, maximum
demand forecasts are derived from the generation forecast.
3.4     The resulting Base Case demand forecast which wae reviewed and agreed
by the mission, is shown in Annex 3.1. This forecast projects that consumption
of electric energy will rise at an annual average rate of 7.4Z over the 1991-2000
period.  Reflecting the results of ESCOM's planned loss reduction measures,
required generation is forecast to rise slightly less rapidly by 7.3% per year.
Maximum demand is forecast to rise by an average of 7.4% annually.
3.5     The Base Case forecast does not include any major new loads that are not
either under construction or firmly planned. However, ESCOM has had enquiries
concerning possible supply from three prospective large clients, VIPCOR, David



- 19 -
Whitehead and Mohinji Irrigation.  If it was to materialize, this additional
demand would add substantially to electrici 7 consumption and hence to required
generation. Based on information supplied by these three potential clients as
to the anticipated timing and size of the possible additional loads, ESCOM has
prepared a High Scenario demand forecast, which is shown in Annex 3.2. On this
forecast, sales would rise on average by 8.7% annually between 1991 and 2000 and
generation by 8.5%. In view of the uncertainty of these potential new loads,
generation system expansion is planned to meet the requirements of the Base Case
forecast. The prospects of the potential new loads will be monitored closely.
Should they begin materializing during the early part of the Project's
implementation period, the timi-ag of the installation of the additional units of
Kapichira (para 3.6) will be accelerated to satisfy the resulting additional
demand. The Low Case forecast, given in Annex 3.3. results in average sales
increase of 7.32, generation increase of 7.2% and maximum demand increase of 6.7%
during the same period.
3.6     Generation and Capaclty Balances.  The dependable energy generation
capability of the existing hydro system is estimated at 860 GWh, increasing to
926 GWh by 1995 following the targeted commissioning of Tedzani III and to 1329
GWh by 1998 following the planned commissioning of Kapichira in 1997.  The
projected capacity and generation balance (Annex 3.4) indicates that the system
will be energy constrained during 1993 to 1997 for the base, the high and the low
case demand scenarios. There will be ample energy generation capability from
1998 to 2000 for the base and low case demand scenarios; energy deficiencies will
result for the high demand scenario.
3.7       The  corresponding  dependable  capacity  of  the  existing  system,
including the 15MW standby gas turbine, is 136 MW. increasing tot 156MW with the
commissioning of the 20MW fifth unit at Nkula B in 1992, 196MW with the
commissioning of Tedzani III in 1994, 221MW with one unit of Kapichira in 1997
and 246MW with the second unit in 1998. The system demand will increase from
134.5MW to 252MW for the base demand scenario, with corresponding figures of
134.5MW and 270MW for the high scenario, during the period 1991-2000. Assuming
the planting program is achievable, there will be ample capacity for the base
case demand scenario during the period 1992-2000. Load shedding will be needed
if the high case scenario materializes.  The difference in capacity balance
between the Base Case and the Low Case scenarios is 11.6MW in 1997, which is less
than half the proposed unit size of 25MW to be installed in Kapichira. This
would not justify considering delaying the installation of one of the two
Kapichira units to be installed in 1997 should the demand forecast follow the Low
Demand scenario.



- 20 -
IV. POWER IESTMENT PROGRAH AND PROJECT
The Investment Program of the Power Sector (IPPS)
4.1     The Government and ESCOM with the assistance of consultants, have
prioritized the least cost options for power supply up to the turn of the
century.   These are based on Malawi's indigenous hydroelectric resources.
Studies, under the auspices of SADCC, are underway to assess the technical and
economic viability of further power interconnection in the SADCC region.
Potential options for Malawi are interconnection with Zambia, which may not be
possible from about mid-nineties due to Zambia's existing commitments, and
Mozambique.  ESCOM and Electridade de Mocambique have started discussions which
will lay down the ground work for future interconnection, having regard to the
proposed interconnection from Cahora Bassa to Zimbabwe. Interconnection would
be given consideration as a possible option for meeting Malawi's power needs
beyond the year 2005 when additional capacity is likely to be needed provided
that the political situation in the region is stabilized and additional
generation capacity is installed in the region. The high cost of imported fuel,
the uncertainty of supply and the low quality of indigenous coal make thermal
options uneconomic (para 6.1).
4.2     In accordance with the priorities ctstablishad for the least cost
development program, ESCOM is implementing the following components: the
installation of the fifth and final 20MW unit at Nkula B expected to be
commissioned in 1992; construction of 2x25MW hydroelectric power plant as a third
and final phase of Tadzani Falls scheme, including associated transmission and
substations, planned for commissioning in 1994; generation rehabilitation of
Nkula A hydroelectric power plant; construction of a 250km 132kV line from Nkula
B hydroelectric power ple t to Lilongwe, including associated substations,
scheduled for commissioning in 1993; and reinforcement and expansion of the
transmission, sub-transmission and distribution systems, including rural
electrification.   The major planned investment is the construction of the
Kapichira hydroelectric scheme. Kapichira will be constructed in two phases.
The first phase (Phase I) comprises a power house, which will be designed and
constructed to accommodate Sx25MW generating units, of which 2 units are planned
for commissioning in 1997, together with a 58km 132kV transmission line and
associated substations at Kapichira, Tedzani III and Blantyre West.   The
installation of the three additional generating units with their intake gates and
a short penstock (except for its excavation included in Phase I) will form Phase
II of Kapichira, tentatively scheduled for commissioning by 1999/2000 under a new
financing arrangement to be identified by Government by about 1993/94.  (The
major part of the civil works, all of the transmission line and the major part
of substation facilities for Phase II are unavoidably included in Phase I).
Reinforcement and expansion of the transmission and distribution systems form an
important component of the IPPS. A rural electrification subcomponent includes
the possible construction of a 4MW hydroelectric power plant in the Northern
region (Karonga and Chitipa, presently diesel supply centers) and extension of
the subtransmission system to other rural centers of activity in Malawi.
4.3     The IPPS has been defined and costed during preappraisal. Agreement has
been reached with ESCOM on its composition, and the priority components were
selected for inclusion ia the proposed Power V Project.



- 21 -
4.4      Source of Financing.  The IPPS for the period 1991-1999 is summarized
in Table 4.1 below and is detailed in Annex 4.2. The total cost of the IPPS for
the said period amounts to US$529.1  (MK1609.6) million of which US$400.8
(HK1219.3) million is in foreign exchange and US$128.4 (MK390.3) million is in
local currency. In terms of total cost in MK, the on-going Energy I Project
accounts for 11.9%, the proposed Power V Project for 43.8%, other generation
excluding generation components under Energy I and Power V (but including Phase
II Kapichira) for 16.3%, transmission for 9.7%; distribution for 11.6% and rural
electrification for 6.7%.
Table 4.1
Summar of the Investment P ormof the Power Sector 1991.4996
Total Exeenditures
Local Forelin    Total   Local  Forelan  Total
(million R)       (million US)
Power
Power V (a)              194.18  511.08   705.26    63.63  167.67  231.30
Energy I (b)              46.49  144.34   190.83    15.56  48.33  63.89
Generation (b)            35.84  226.00   261.84    11.56  72.71  84.27
Transmission (b)          25.45  130.58   156.03    8.49  43.56  52.05
Distribution (b)          59.52  *127.73   187.25    19.67  41.92  61.59
Rural Electrification (b)    28.85   79.55   108.40    9.51  26.52  36.03
Total                    390.33  1219.28  1609.61   128.38  400.75  529.13
(a) Detailed in Annex 4.3
(b) Detailed in Annex 4.2
4.5        Energy I is being financed by IDA and Austria, the additional 205W
unit included under "other generation" is being funded by KfW, the major of
transmission (the 250km 132kV line) by France, substations (included in
transmission under para. 4.4) and some distribution by EIB, some distribution and
part of rural electrification by Spain. IDA, CDC, EIB and ADB are considering
financing the proposed Power V Project (para. 4.15 and Table 4.3).
4.6        During negotiations agreement was reached thats  (i) ESCON would not
undertake any major expansion in excess of US$5 million not included in the
investment program of the power sector (IPPS) agreed with IDA unless ESCOM shall
have furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that such an investment
is economically and technically justified; and (ii) the Government and ESCON
shall review the IPPS annually and agree on any changes that may be found
necessary.
4.7        Works in Progress. ESCOM is implementing generation, transmission and
distribution works summarized as follows: (i) under the Energy I Project the
preparation for the construction of Tedzani III hydroelectric scheme.
Consultants have been employed, prequalification of contractors for the main
civil works has been carried out and bid documents for a number of contract
packages are being distributed with bid opening dates scheduled for the first
quarter of 1992. As asset revaluation study has been completed. Tariffe, and
transmission and distribution system studies are nearing completion. Computers,
mainly for billing and accounting, have been procured and are being installed;
(ii) the civil works for the installation of the fifth 20EW unit at Nkula B, due
for commissioning in 1992, is nearing completion; (iii) survey works for the
construction of the 250km 132kV line are completed and design is in progress; and



- 22 -
(iv) transmission reinforcement and distribution reinforcement and expansion
works including rural electrification, are also in progress.
The Proiect
4.8       Project Obiectives.   The objective of the proposed Project is to
assist the Government and ESCOM implement the priority power component of the
least cost energy strategy adopted by the Government. The specific objectives
are to: (i) meet the growing demand for power in a least cost manner through the
construction of the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme and the rehabilitation of the
hydro, standby gas and diesel power plants; (ii) improving the quality of power
supply through reinforcing the transmission and distribution system to minimize
outages and reduce losses; (iii) strengthening the capacity of the energy sector
institutions to plan, manage and operate energy sector facilities and
institutions; and (iv) assist in rationalizing sector-wide energy pricing policy.
4.9       Rationale for IDA's Involvement.  A more rational strategy for the
energy sector, including least cost power development, decreasing dependence on
imported oil and coal and arresting the depletion of indigenous fuelwood
resources, is a key component of the Government's structural adjustment program
which the Bank is supporting. This Project directly supports the first two major
components of the energy sector major strategy and will make a contribution to
the third. First, it will help implement a coherent and least cost program of
measures to expand the availability and improve the reliability of power supply.
This will facilitate continued industrial, commercial and agricultural expansion,
which is a key component of structural adjustment, and increased household access
to electricity, which will improve living standards. Second, while involving
substantial up-front capital investment, it will minimize the long term economic
cost of meeting comme#cial energy demand by substituting lower cost indigenous
electricity for highe* cost, imported and unreliable supplies of petroleum and
coal. Third, by expa; ing household access to electricity, it will facilitate
the substitution of a cleaner, more efficient, more versatile fuel for
environmentally-damaging and increasingly scarce woodfuels, particularly in urban
areas - the most concentrated source of woodfuel demand. IDA has helped finance
three power projects in the past (totalling US$85 million, 8% of total lending
operations) and is, through the Energy I Project (US$31.9 million for power,
US$14.8 million for wood energy), presently involved in financing the fourth
power project as well as in the continuation of assistance to the energy sector
through activities on wood energy, technical assistance and studies.   IDA's
involvement under Power V would focus on the implementation of a least cost power
development program which IDA assisted in preparing. IDA would also assist in
rationalizing sector-wide energy pricing policy and in strengthening energy
sector institutions both of which are continuation of activities initiated under
the on-going Energy I Project. Equally importantly, IDA's involvement would
assist aid flow to the power sector and its application in the highest priority
areas.
4.10      Project Preparation.  The Bank agreed in 1988 with the Government and
ESCON on the recommendations of a study which update ESCOM's least cost power
development program prepared for the Government by Kennedy and Donkin in



23 -
association with WLPU consultants2/.   The study proved conclusively that
Tedzani III (presently under implementation as a component of Energy I) followed
by Kapichira ia the least cost solution to meet Malawi's power generation
requirements up to the turn of the century. The Bank's preparation mission for
the proposed Powver V Project which visited Malawi in April 1991 reviewed with the
Government and ESCOM the followings (i) the demand forecast up to the year 2005;
(ii) the feasibility study of the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme (the major
component of Power V) and its updated cost; and (iii) the transmission,
distribution and institutional subcomponents of the Project. The conclusions of
the least cost study referred to above and the findings of the preparation
mission constitute the proposed Power V Project. The proposed Project has been
reviewed in detail with Government, ESCOM and cofinanciers at appraisal in
August/September 1991, including the estimated project costs, the implementation
schedule and the financial capability of ESCOM.
4.11         Project Description. A detailed description of the Project is given
in Annex 4.1 and is summarized below:
Power CoMonent
The main features of the power component of the Project are the following:
A. Kagigihirg Hydrgolectric Scheme
(1)   construction of:  (i) an access road from Chikwawa Village to
Kapichira construction camp site; and (ii) camp facilities at the
construction site, including provision of water supply and
electricity;
(2)   construction of (i) an 800m long earth fill (1lm high) and composite
earth-rock fill (26m) dam at Kapichira Falls creating a pondage of
about 200 ha (total storage 11 million m39 live storage 3.5 million
m3) for daily regulation, provided with gated spillway; (ii) about
450m long power canal and power intake; (iii) 2 steel penstocks,
each lOOm long, 4.9m in diameter; (iv) a power house to accommodate
5 generating units of which 2 will be installed under the Project;
(v) a tailrace; and (vi) a switchyard;
(3)   installation of two Francis turbines coupled to two 25MW generators
with associated electromechanical equipment; a power house 2rane;
(4)   switchgear and control equipment for Kapichira Switchyard, including
two approximately 30MVA 11/132kV step up transformers; extension of
substations at Tedzani and Blantyre West;
(5)   construction of about 58km of 132kV single circuit transmission line
from Kapichira Switchyard to Tedzani III. The existing 132kV Nkula
to Nchalo line will be broken at Kapichira and the two ends diverted
into Kapichira Switchyard;
.a/    Study to update ESCOM's Least Cost Development Program, Kennedy and Donkin in
aasociation with WLPU, April 1988.



- 24 -
(6) extension of the existing SCADA system to include KapiAhirap and
upgrading as necessary the existing generation control microcomputer
center at Nkula B and interface of the telemetry software with the
existing systems:
(7)   establishment of single channel PLC and telephone links to Kapichira
to connect it to the existing system; and
(8)   (i) engineering services for the design, supervision and management
of the hydroelectric scheme; (ii) provision for a panel of experts
as may be needed to review the design and provide advice on
technical issues during the construction phase of Kapichira.
B. oGeneration Rehabilitation
Improving the availability of the existing power plants through:
(i)    the reconditioning or replacement of: runners, guide vanes,
cooling systems, etc., and provision of essential spares for
Tedzani I; provision of runner and essential spares for the
Nkula B machines;
(ii)   the rehabilitation of the intake structures of the Nkula A,
Nkula B and Tedzani power stations. The intake structures are
presently the major source of shutdowns of the power stations;
and
(iii)  the acquisition of spares for the gas turbine and diesel power
plants.
C. Transmission Reinforcement
Improving the reliability of the transmission system to the Northern Region
through:
(i)    the acquisition of tubular steel poles and steel cross-arms to
replace the existing wood poles and wooden cross-arms on the
66kV (designed and constructed for 132kV) line from Salima to
Chinteche (265km) and the 132kV line from Salima to Lilongwe
(75km);
(ii)   the  installation  of  the  steel poles  and  cross-arms  by
contractors for the Salima to Chintheche portion and by
ESCOM's own work force for the Salima to Lilongwe portion;
(iii)  the construction of a control building and installation of a
control system at Lilongwe, to improve data collection and
storage, reduce outage times and facilitate operations.
D. Distribution Reinforcement
Improving the reliability of and contributing to the loss reduction on the
distribution system through:



_ 25 -
(i)    installation about 23MVA 66/33kV substation transformers at
Zomba (1OMVA), Chirimba (7.514VA) and Monkey Bay (5MVA), and
1O0VA of 66/llkV substation transformer at Limbe and 5MVA of
33/llkV at Ntcheu;
(ii)   reconductoring of the llkV and Low Voltage systems in the
Southern, Central and Northern regions;
(iii)  construction of 219km of 33kV, 230km of 11kV, 120km of low
voltage overhead lines and underground cables; installation of
105NVA of 33/0.4kV and 25OMVA of 11/0.4kV distribution
transformers; and provision of energy meters, autoreclosers
and sectionalizers; acquisition of about 320 vehicles for use
mainly in the distribution systems.
E. Institutional Strengthening of ESCOM
(i)    consultancy services fort (a) studies to determine the least
cost option for power supply after Kapichira; and (b)
provision for expert services to advise on issues of technical
nature;
(ii)   establishing a strategy for computerizing ESCOM's financial
and technical operations, provision for the acquisition of one
central computer system at ESCOM's headquarters and 18
microcomputers (one for each district of ESCOM's area of
operations) to be linked through Lilongwe and Mzuzu to the
headquarters; and
(iii)  provision for training for ESCOM's staff, including
provision for training aids, to assist in building capacity to
plan, manage and operate ESCOM's facilities and systems.
Non-Power Components
The non-power components of the Project consist of the following:
F. Energv Planning and Policy
(i)    a household energy strategy study which will: establish a firm
data base for households energy supply and demand, examine the
supply and marketing of various forms of household energy,
with   emphasis   on   biomass,   including   substitution
posaibilities, and recommend a household energy strategy;
(ii)   provision of about 15 man months of expert services on an as-
needed basis, to assist the Government on energy related
issues including advice on petroleum or coal exploration (15
man months), and to address energy conservation and demand
management measures.



- 26 -
G- Petroleum Supnlv
Expert services of about 10 man months to review current petroleum product
procurement, transport and bulk storage arrangements and the legal framework of
the Petroleum Control Commission (PCC). The objective would be to idAntify
actions that the PCC could take to reduce the cost of petroleum product supply,
such as direct procurement and the construction and operation of bulk storage
facilities, and the changes needed in its legal framework to take those actions.
B. Energv Efficiency
Technical assistance to the Tobacco Control Commission totalling about 20
man months to demonstrate more energy efficient barn designs for tobacco curing
for smallholder farmers and to promote the use of softwood charcoal as a
substitute to the scarse hardwood charcoal for tobacco curing. Purchase of 4
wheel-drive vehicles and computer equipment. The main objective of this small
subcomponent is to serve as a long term catalyst in moderating the excessive
negative environmental impact of inefficient and scarse woodfuel resources.
Project Cost Estimate
4.12       Project costs are detailed in Annex 4.3 and are summarized in Table
4.2 below:
Table 4.2
Summary of Prolect Costs
Local    Foreian  Total    Local Foreiyg  Total
(Kwacha million)             (US$ million)
Power ComPonent
A. Kapichira
- Civil Works             145.98     187.85   333.83   47.81     61.46   109.27
- Electromechanical         2.90      84.93    87.83    0.95     27.73    28.68
- Transmission & Subs.     10.07      47.22    57.29    3.28     15.40    18.68
- Engineering               8.28      44.19    L2.47    2.74     14.60    17.34
Sub Total                    159.49     364.19   531.42   54.78    119.19   173.97
B. Generation
Rehabilitation            0.56      15.86    16.42    0.18      5.19     5.37
C.  Transmission               7.80     49.23    57.03    2.55      16.28    18.83
D.  Distribution              18.14     69.89    88.02    5.95      23.11    29.06
B. Institutional2
Strengthening             0.27       8.10     8._3    0.09      2.64     2.73
Total Power                  194.00     507.2    701.26   63.55    166.41   229.96
Interest durilng cons.       125.7       -       125.07   40.47      -       40.47
Totel                        319.07     5.27   826.34  104.02    166.41   270.43
Ron Power Component
F.  Energy Planning            0.12      3.05     3.17    0.06       1.00     1.06
0.  Petroleum supply           0.05      0.58     0.63    0.03       0.25     0.28
Total non-power               0-.17     _31        3.98    0.09      1.25     1.34
Total Power V                194.1Z     511.08   Z05.25   63.64    16Z.6    231.30
Total Financing Required     L                   f83-4 8L          .g34     271.7



- 27 -
4.13      The  total  cost  of  the  Project  including  physical  and  price
contingencies, but excluding duties and taxes (except for vehicles and workshop)
and interest during construction, is estimated at US$231.3 million of which the
foreign exchange cost would be US$167.7 million (72.52). The total financing
requirement including interest during construction is estimated at US$271.8
million. The base cost for Kapichira hydroelectric scheme has been updated, and
is at March 1990 price level.   The corresponding base costs for the other
subcomponents are based on 1990 procurements made by ESCOM and on information
furnished by the Government. Physical contingencies are 15Z for civil works and
10%  for electromechanical  equipment.   Price  contingencies were  calculated
assuming domestic inflation rates of 11.6% in 1990, 9% in 1991, and 6% in 1992
and 5% in 1993 through 1999. The corresponding international rates are 5.9% in
1990, 5% in 1991, 1.8% in 1992 and 1993, and 4.2% in 1994 through 1999.
4.14      ProJect Financdn2 Plan.  The project financing plan is shown in Table
4.3 below:
Table 4.3
Financint PlaI
(US$ million)
Component    Local Fund.             Forcarn Fu d.                 Total Funds
Paower         ESCOH   IDA                         l C1*   Local          Foregp    Total
KapiChira
- Civil Works   47.81  36.46           25.00                  47.81      61.46   109.27
- El. Mech.     .95          25.41              2.32            .95      27.73    28.68
- S & Tr.      3.28                            15.40           3.28      15.40    18.68
- Engineering    2.74  14.60                           2.74   14.60      17.34
Sub-total Kap.   54.78  51.06   25.41   25.00   17.32          54.78     119.19   173.97
Con rehab.      0.18   .45   2.27                 .28  2.42   0.18         5.19     5.37
Transmission    2.55                                   16.28   2.55       16.28    18.83
Distribution    5.95                                   23.11   5.95       23.11    29.06
Institutional    0.09  2.24                              ,Q**   .09        2.64     2. 73
Total Power    63.55  53.75  aL_68     25.00  18.00    .8   6 .55       166.      229.96
Non-Power
Petroleum Supply  0.03   .25                                    0.03       0.25       .28
Energy Planning   0.06  1.00                                    0.06       1.00      1.66
SubTotal       0.09  1.25                                      0.09       1.25      1.94
Total Power V    63.64  55.O0 0 _68     25.00 287.6      t 41.98 3.64    167.66   231.30
Interest during
Conste.      40.47                                           40.47                40.47
Total            1  55.00   27.68       5 .00        41.98  104.11        6.6   10j4.1
*7 UNI - Unidentified
**/ Possible financing by ESCON
4.15      The total foreign exchange requirement of the Project is estimated at
US$167.7 million of which US$166.4 million will be spent by ESCOM on the power
component of the Project, and US$1.25 million by the Government on non-power
energy related components. Of the total foreign exchange cost IDA is considering
to finance US$55 million, the African Development Bank US$27.7 million for
committment from February 1993, CDC US$25 million equivalent (Pounds sterling 15
million) and BIB US$18 million equivalent (ECUIS million).  There is thus a
financing gap of US$41.6 million (excluding US$0.4 million for training ESCOM's
staff abroads to be financed by ESCOM) for the foreign exchange costs which
require to be identified.   CDC has shown interest to finance, under a bilateral



- 28 -
arrangement, the transmission reinforcement component, estimated to require
US$16.3 million in foreign exchange, at a later stage of the project cycle. The
NORAD and NORDIC Development Fund are showing interest in the Project as a wholeo
particularly in the distribution reinforcement component, estimated at US$23.1
million in foreign exchange. In view of these indications, the appraisal mission
has agreed with the Government and ESCOM to leave transmission and distribution
components in the Project rather than transferring to the IPPS for implementation
as and when financing is available. ESCOM will be able to generate from its
operations the local currency requirements estimated at MK194 million (US$63.6
million equivalent) as well as the interest during construction estimated at
MK125.07 million (US$40.47 million). The Government is expected to finance the
local currency requirements, estimated at MK170000 (US$909000 equivalent), for
the non-power components of the Project.
4.16     Agreement was reached at negotiations that:  (i) the Government would
onlend to ESCOM US$53.75 million at 7.23% interest rate and 20 years repayment
period including a grace period of 5 years, ESCOM taking the foreign exchange
risk; and (ii) the execution of the onlending agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit. The remaining US$1.25 million will be passed
on as a grant by the Government to: (i) the Department of Economic Planning and
Development (US$1.00 million equivalent); and (ii) the Petroleum Control
Commission (US$250,000 equivalent).
4.17      The notifications by CDC and EIB that all conditions precedent to the
first disbursement of their respective loans have been fulfilled would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. During negotiations it was
agreed that the Government and ESCOM would conclude: (i) by not later than
February 28, 1993 an agreement with ADB for the financing of the two turbines
and generators needed for Phase I of Rapichira; and (ii) by not later than June
30, 1993, agreements for the financing of the transmission and distribution
reinforcement sub-components of the Project.
4.18     Project Imilementation.  Consultants will be employed initially under
a Project Preparation Facility, by about April, 1992.   Preparation of bid
documents and their distribution will be undertaken by the latter half of 1992,
and contract awards by early - mid 1993, rendering possible commencement of
construction immediately thereafter. Commissioning of Kapichira is targetted for
mid - 1997. Construction will be undertaken by contractors under the supervision
of consulting engineers and ESCOM. The rehabilitation of the hydro, the gas
turbine and the diesel plants will be undertaken by manufacturers under the
supervision of ESCOM assisted as required by consultants. The supervision of the
transmission and distribution works will be undertaken by ESCOM's own staff. The
transmission reinforcement work between Salima and Chinteche will be carried out
by a contractor. The portion between Salima and Lilongwe will be done by ESCOM
(para. 4.11C). A Project Implementation Schedule is given in Annex 4.4.
4.19     ESCOM is the responsible implementing agency for the power component
of the Project. ESCOM will appoint a manager for this component within the
Project Management Department of the existing organization structure (Annex 2.2)
who will have the following main responsibilities:   (i) co-ordinating the
supervision of the execution of the power component of the Project; (ii) liaising
with IDA, CDC, the designated body of the Republic of Austria and EIB on the sub-
components of the Project; (iii) dealing with all correspondence, procurement



- 29 -
activities and progress reportsl and (iv) liaising with consultants to be
employed for the engineering design and supervision of Kapichira hydroelectric
scheme.   The qualifications  and experience of the Project Manager  shall be
satisfactory to the Banks and the placement of the Project Manager shall be a
condition of disbursement of the Project.
4.20       Procurement.  The Procurement Method is summarized in Table 4.4.  The
civil works component being considered for joint financing by IDA and CDC, and
equipment to be financed by IDA, will be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement. The World
Bank's Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works and for Procurement of
Table 4.4
Procurement Hethod a/
(US$million)
ICB      Other bl       NFB      c/  Total Cost
Foreign Local
Power
Kapichira
Civil Works       109.27                                   109.27
(61.46)                                 (61.46)
Electro-                              27.73       0.95      28.68
mechanical
Substations                           15.40       3.28      18.68
Engineering                17.34                            17.34
(14.60)                          (14.60)
Total Kapichira   109.27  17.34       43.13       4.23     173.97
(61.46) (14.60)                         (76.06)
Generation
Reha.                                5.19       0.18       5.37
Transmission                          16.28       2.55      18.83
Distribution                          23.11       5.95      29.06
Institutional
- Consultancy              1.79                              1.79
(1.72)                           (1.72)
- Training                             0.42                  0.42
- Computers         0.52                                    0.52
(0.50)                                  (0. 50)
Total Power       109.79  19.13       88.13      12.91     229.96
(61.96) (16.32)                         (78.28)
Non Power
Petroleum                  0.28                              0.28
(0.25)                           (0.25)
Energy Planning             1.06                             1.06
(1.00)                           (1.00)
Subtotal                    1.34                             1.34
(1.25)                           (1.25)
Total Power V     109.79  20.47       88.13      12.91     231.30
(61.96) (17.57)                         (79.53)
(a)    Amounts in brackets are, including Kapichira civil works where CDC also contributes
US$25 million under ICB rules, IDA financed.
(b)    Consulting services and technical assistance under IDA guidelines.
(c)    Not financeable by IDA and ICB rules not applicable.  Cofinanciers are interested.
Local expenditures will be financed by ESCOM and the Government.



- 30 -
Goods provide guidance for the preparation of bid and contract documents.
Procurements for turbines and generators under consideration for financing by ADB
will also be on international competitive basis, and will be based on technical
specifications to be provided by the consultants employed utder IDA financing.
Review of bid and contract documents will, however, be undertaken by ADB, where
necessary  in consultation with IDA.   Procurements  for substations being
considered for financing by BIB will be in accordance with the procurement
guidelines of the EIB and will be open for competitive bidding to EEC member
countries and Malawi. The consultants employed under IDA funding need, however,
to review the EIB's technical specifications to ensure compatibility with other
deliveries, and to co-ordinate their deliveries with other works related to the
Rapichira hydroelectric scheme. Direct contracting (US$5.19 million) will apply
for: (i) proprietary spares for the hydroelectric plants, and for the gas
turbines and diesel power plants; and (ii) for specialized training and graduate
studies related to ESCOM's operations (US$400,000). Consultancy services to be
financed under the proposed IDA credit will be selected on the basis of the
quality of service, in accordance with IDA guidelines for the selection of
consultants.   All contracts for amounts equal to or larger than US$300,000
equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review.   The proportion of the
procurement which will be subject to IDA's review is estimated at 72Z for the
Project.
4.21     Considerable delays have been experienced in the processing of ESCOM's
bid and contract documents for the on-going Energy I Project.  These delays
originate from two factors. The first ie the unwritten rule of the Government
that all correspondence by ESCOM with the Bank be made through the Ministry of
Finance.   The second is due to the practice, recently legalised, that all
procurements in excess of K250,000 (US$100,000) for works and K150.000
(US$60,000) for services require the Government's approval. The approval process
goes through the whole procurement cycle from clearance of bid or TOR documents
to final contract document (these result in up to 7 inter-governmental
communications for a single contract). The supervision missions of the Bank have
not been successful in bringing about a change in the present practice of the
Government. The specific recommendation made was that the Government's approval
be a one time operation, either at the bid evaluation stage (when approval to
negotiate and, if successful. conclude a contract can be granted) or at the
contract award stage (where Government can review the evaluation and the final
draft contract). At negotiations agreement was reached that: (i) ESCOM would
correspond directly with IDA, with copies to the Government as appropriate, on
matters related to project implementation and performance. It was also agreed
that ESCOM will correspond directly with IDA on all stages of the preparation of
bid documents up to and including their distribution to prospective bidders as
well as the evaluation of the bids.  Prior to contract award, ESCOM's bid
evaluation, together with the lowest responsive bid and draft contract, will then
be transmitted to the Government for review.   Following this review, the
Government will transmit its comments to IDA, and after obtaining IDA's no
objection, will authorize ESCOM to negotiate and, if successful, to conclude a
contract with the successful bidder.  The threshold value for the mandatory
review by Government would be increased to the equivalent or US$300,000 for
procurements pertinent to the power component of the Project.



- 31 -
4.22     Prolect Prenaration I'acility CPPF). A PPF of US$1,500,000 equivalent
has been approved by IDA to assist the Government finance the initial phases of
the engineering services for the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme.
4.23     Disbureement.  The proceeds from the credit would be disbursed over a
period of about 65 months from September 1992 through March 1998. Disbursements
from the credit would be in accordance with the disbursement procedures of IDA
and would be made for 100l of foreign expenditures for all project components.
Simplified disbursement procedures on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
would be allowed for civil work contracts of less than US$300,000 and equipment
contracts of less than US$100,000. Aniex 4.5 gives the anticipated disbursements
from the proposed IDA credit and is based on the estimated annual project costs
(of Annex 4.3) and are in compliance with standard profiles for Bank loans and
IDA credits for power projects in Africa region. However, disbursements for the
on-going Energy I Project are behind the original disbursement schedule. This
is mainly due to the long delay in the declaration of effectiveness of the credit
(11 months from the date of Board approval) and delays in processing procurements
referred in paragraph 4.21 above. Experience on projects processed after Energy
I indicate hardly any delays in declaring effectiveness. Bid documents for all
contracts for the power component of Energy I have been distributed, and
contracts are likely to be concluded prior to mid-1992, and the power component
is expected to be commissioned with a probable slight delay of about 3 months.
Procurements, with delivery periods of less than 18 months, are being concluded
for the wood energy component. Hence almost 100% of the Energy I credit is
expected to be disbursed by the original closing date of the credit (December 31,
1994). Possible disbursement lag due to probable delays in procurements were
discussed during negotiations (para 4.21). The closing date for the proposed
credit would be June 30, 1998.
4.24    ftecial Accounts.   To expedite the execution of the Project the
Government would open Special Accounts at a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA.
Special Account A for ESCOM would have an initial deposit of US$1,000,000.
Special Account B for non-power components will also have initial deposits of
US$250,000. Payments from these accounts shall be made for eligible expenditures
under the credit. IDA will replenish the Special Accounts as needed. It was
agreed at negotiations that EPD, PCC and TCC would submit audited accounts,
including those of the Statement of Expenditures, to IDA within nine months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year.
4.25     Environmental Aspects.  Kap.chira hydroelectric scheme is a Category
A project for Environmental Assessment (EA). Accordingly, the Government has
undertaken an EA with the assistance of consultants. Concerned departments of
the Government and ESCOM were involved, and extensive discuasions in which
interested groups including NGOs were represented have taken place in Malawi.
The Government's EA final reportV/, dated 22 November, 1991, is available for
review at ESCOM's headquarters in Blantyre, and a summary is ptesented in Annex
4.7. The Kapichir. dam will inundate an area of about 200 ha and create a
pondage of about 11 million cubic meters. The feasib1lity study has outlined the
socio-environmental impacts of Rapichira. An EA assessment has also been carried
2/   Kapichira Environmental Aesessment Malawi Power V Project, 22 November 1991.



- 32 -
out by a consultant on behalf of the Government. The dam will inundate less than
1r0 ha of the 78,000 ha Majete Game reserve and about 100 ha of the 10,000 ha of
Blantyre City Fuelwood Plantation. Disturbances will also be created due to
borrow pits. The dam, being a daily flow regulating dam, will not affect the
flow of the river downstream and is not expected to have serious impacts to
fishery rejources in downstream areas, including Elephant Marsh. Compensatory
measures for the wildlife conversion of the 100 ha Majete Game Reserve could
involve: (i) setting aside of an area of equal size or ecological value adjacent
to the Reserve or as part of another park; or (ii) compensation in kind to
benefit the management and conservation of wildlands. The EA recommendation for
an electric fence around the Game Reserve was discussed at appraisal. zSCOM and
the Government have agreed that the proposed expensive measure is not warranted
in view of the negligibly small area of the wildlife conversion. ESCOM will
substantially reduce the area earmarked for camp facilities, presently 6 square
kilometers.   ESCOM has agreed to: (i) upon project completion, provide - if
required - guard houses (up to 5 guards) to the National Parks and Wildlife
Department of the Government at the camp area to compensate for the lOOha
wildlife conversion; (ii) establish an environmental unit to follow up mitigation
and monitoring plans during construction and after completion, assisted as may
be required by specialized Government Departments (Department of Research &
Environmental Affairs, Parks & Wildlife Department, etc.).  Improved tourist
access to the Game Reserve , increased economic development for local communities
and the provision of improved social services for local populations are positive
environmental impacts which would result from the construction of the Kapichira
hydroelectric project.  During negotiations agreement was reached that ESCOM
would: (i) compensate the wildlife conversion (less than 100 ha) either in kind
as indicated above or as may be agreed between ESCOM and Parks and Wildlife
Department; and (ii) estatlish an in-house environmental unit which would be
responsible for implementing mitigation measures and preparing monitoring plans
during construction and after completion.
4.26     The route of the 58km 132kV transmission line, feeding Kapichira's
output to the grid through Tedzani's 132kV switchyard, will follow closely an
existing 66kV line, thus reducing wayleave requirements. An EA has demonstrated
that the environmental impact of the proposed route will be less than those of
two shorter alternative routes. ESCOM will consult with and fully compensate the
resettlement of the affected people, some of whom are presently farming along the
chosen corridor. ESCOM will allow cultivation along the corridor but no building
will be allowed in the right-of-way. ESCOM and the Forestry Department have
agreed to clearing of some trees along the  A-lute.  The environmental <unit
referred to in paragraph 4.25 will be responsible for implementing monitoring
plans and mitigating measures.   Most of the transmission and distribution
reinforcement subcomponents of the Project are on existing facilities and will
not therefore introduce new elements of environmental concern.
4.27     Rigarian Rights.      Shire is an international river flowing into
Mozambique. Consequently, the Government of Malawi has notified the Government
of Nozambique of the proposed Kapichira hydroelectric dam, indicating that the
dam is a daily regulating dam and its implementation will not affect the
interests of Mozambique, and requesting a positive response on the subject. The
appraisal mission has satisfied itself that the construction of the Kapichira dam
will not adversely affect the quantity or the quality of water flowing into



- 33 -
Mozambique. The Government of Mozambique has communicated to the Republic of
Malawi its no objection, in principle, to the construction of the Kapichira dam.
Mozambique has suggested and Malawi has agreed to discuss, at some future date,
the technical data and the environmental aspect of existing and planned
hydroelectric power plants on the Shire river with the objective of ensuring
water supply and irrigation needs.
4.28     Project Risks. The principal risk of the Project lies on the probable
inaccuracy of the power demand forecast which could be adversely affected by an
unexpected economic or political situation of the region. This could result in
the new generating capacity of Kapichira coming on line too early. Conversely,
demand growth higher than forecast will bring Rapichira too late. These risks are
minimized by the staged development of the Kapichira scheme, 2x25MI units
(included in this Project) for commissioning by 1997 and, depending on the demand
growth, the remaining 3x25MW units (not included in the Project) by 1999/2000.
The risk of low free water level of Lake Malawi (unlikely in the medium term)
resulting from probable consecutive dry years would be mitigated through the
least cost contingent plan of dredging the channel connecting Lake Malawi to the
Shire river. This would allow further access to the additional live storage
below the free water level of the Lake. The project runs the risk of delay if
the financing gap (para 4.15) cannot be closed as early as possible. There is
also the possibility of a financial risk in the event that project costs exceed
the estimates. The cost update of Kapichira, undertaken by a consultant, makes
ample provision in the form of lump-sums7 and contingencies for the civil works,
and  higher  than  average  of  quoted  suppliers'  prices  for  the    major
electromechanical equipment minimize this risk. Should costs increase for other
subcomponents, their scope could be reduced without a substantial effect on the
overall objectives of the project. The institutional risks which may in general
hamper project implementation will be minimized through conditionalities (paras
1.19, 2.13, 4.21) included in the Project.
4.29     Project Monitorina and Sunervision.  Records and reports necessary to
monitor the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives were
discussed during Project preparation and will be agreed upon with the Government
and ESCOM during negotiations. During the lifetime of the Project, a minimum of
two supervision missions per year will be made to monitor target dates for
Project implementation , as per Annex 4.4 as well as cost estimates and
compliance to legal covenants. Performance indicators, per Annexes 2.3 and 4.6
would also be closely monitored. The reporting requirements will be explained
in detail during project launching to be done soon after the declaration of
effectiveness of the Project. Annex 4.8 gives indicative targets for project
supervision.  ESCON would prepare a Project Completion Report for the power
component within six months of project completion.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY
Electricitv Sur,lv Commission of-Malawi_.ESCOM)
5.1      Financial Performance.  The operating performance, cash flow and the
financial position of ESCOM based on the latest available audited financial
statements for year ended March 31, 1991 are set out in detail in Annexes 5.1 -



- 34 -
5.4.  The following table sumarizes the financial performance of ESCOM for the
past three years and three months.
Table 5.1
SunmrnvOnorating Performance 1Y1988 - 1Y1991
1988   1989,90 A/     90191
Sales                     GWh          477       657          600
Average tariff            tlkWh         10.13     11.61        12.59
Average tariff            UScIkWh       4.31       4.20         4.39
Average Operating Income    t/kWh       4.79      5.94          6.07
Sales Revenue             RMIn         48.3       76.3         75.5
Operating Expenses        KNin         26.3       40.2         41.8
Operating Incoma          RMin         22.9       39.0         36.4
I/ 1989190 represents fifteen    period 1/1/89 to 3/31/90.
5.2       ESCOM's  financial  performance  for  the  past  three  years  was
satisfactory. Sales increased by 11Z during 1990/91 and by 9% and 2% during 1989
and 1988 respectively. In the first three months of 1991/92 sales grew by 5%
over the corresponding period in the previous year. Regular revisions in tariff
resulted in an increase in average tariffs of 14.6% and 8.4% and 9.0% during 1988
and 1989/90 and 1991 respectivelyv Operating costs per kWh sold during 1988 rose
significantly by 292; principally due to the devaluation of the Kwacha, higher
fuel prices and increases in thermal generation were mainly due to a higher
incidence of hydro plant breakdown and transmission outages. During the fifteen
months to March 31, 1990, operating cost per kWh sold showed a modest increase
of 82 compared to a 14% increase during 1990/91. Average increases of 12.5% in
salary scalee effective April 1, 1990 and a higher level of distribution network
maintenance accounted for the major part of the increase in operating costs
during 1990/91.
5.3       The table below shows the manner in which ESCOM 's capital expenditure
was financed during the period under review.
Table 5.2
Sumarv Cash Flow 1988-1990/91
l988    1989I90aI  1990/91    Total    x
Generation from Operations      34.0      53.4       51.3     138.7    110
Least Debt service              21.7      26.0       26.3     74.0    59
Iner. in Working Cap.     10.1            1.    3 1:_   19.2    15
2.2     19.6       23.7      45.5    36
Consumer Contr. & Deposits       4.7       5.3        8.2      18.2    15
Internal Sources                 6.9      24.9       31.9     63.7    51
Grants                           13.3      -          4.9     18.2      14
Dorrowvngs                      23.2      _6.4       14.3     43.9     35
Total Ebt Sources               43.4      31.3       51.1     125.8    100
Capital Expenditure             2T. 1TT                       1T-5    T!o
Debt Service Ratio times         TT
Self Financing Ratio 2          21        68         33
al 19/9190 repreaseto fifteen months' period 1/1189 to 3131/90.
5.4          Funds from internal sources financed approximately 512 of the capital
expenditures during the period January 1, 1988 to March 31, 1991. Grants and



- 35 -
borrowings accounted for 14% and 352 respectively of the capital expenditure.
The investment program during the period under consideration was relatively
modest and this enabled ESCOt4 to finance a good proportion of the capital
expenditure from internal sources.  The debt service coverage of 2.0  and 1.9
times and the self financing ratio of 68% and 33Z achieved during 1989/90 and
1990/91 respectively are both well within the financial covenants of 1.5 (debt
service) and 302 (self financing) stipulated under Credit 1990-MAI.
5e5         The following table provides a summary of the financial position of
ESCOM over the past three accounting dates.
Table 5.3
Su=ar Balance Sheets
12/31      12/31      03/31
1987       1988       1990
Kwacha Million
Net Fixed Asset in Operations            190.9       239.5       244.8
Works in Progress                         41.5        14.3        44.9
Net Current AssetsliLiabilities)           5.3        11.8        11.1
Total Funds Employed                      23.7       265.6       300.8
Equity                                    94.1       126.6       164.1
Loug-tern Debt                            143.6      139.0       136.7
Total Funds Employed                      237.7      265.6       LQ
Return on Assets AL  Z                     12.5       14.5        15.1
Debt Equity Ratio aL  2                   60          52         45
Current Ratio      times                   1.2         1.5        1.3
Receivables/Sales    days                 64         69          66
aL    Based on partially revalued assets.
5.6        The rate of return on average net fixed asset valued at historical
cost and adjusted for foreign exchange losses remained unchanged during 1988 but
improved steadily thereafter producing a high annual rate of 15.1Z in 1990/91.
Good operating performance, healthy capital contributions and generous grants
have contributed to the improving trend of the dcbt equity and current ratios.
5.7        Accounting and AuditinM.  Under Credit 1990-MA1, ESCOM is obliged to
take all measures neceseary to ensure that the level of accounts receivable from
subscribers shall not exceed the equivalent of sixty days of sales revenue in the
preceding twelve months. As can be seen from Table 5.3 above, the target has not
been met in the recent past. However, the deteriorating trend has now been
reversed and as a result of a tighter credit control policy adopted by ESCOM
since late 1990, they have succeeded in bringing down the ratio to 66 and 63 as
at March 31, 1991 and June 30, 1991 respectively. However, the receivables as
at March 31 (fiscal year end of both ESCOH and the Government) are always
expected to be higher since Government departments delay the settlement of their
accounts until after the year end following the new budget allocations. At
negotiations agreement was reached that ESCON would continue to keep ite accounts
receivable to no more than 60 days of sales.
5.8        The  financial  statements of ESCOM are  audited annually by  the
international firm Delloitte & Touche. The audited accounts are received by the



- 36 -
Bank within four months following the end of the fiscal year.  The audited
financial statementa for the year ended March 31, 1991 were reviewed during
appraisal in September 1991 and were found to be satisfactory. The auditor's
report contained no qualifications.   Sample checking of the Statements of
Expenditures of the Special Account A under Credit 1990-MAI showed no flawe in
ESCOM's operations.  At negotiations agreement was reached that ESCOM would
continue to have its accounts audited, including the Special Account and the
Statements of Excpenditures, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
sent to the Bank within four months after the end of the financial year of ESCOM.
5.9       Asset Revaluation and Degreciation.   ESB International Limited of
Dublin have completed the asset revaluation study4/ funded under Credit 1990-
MAI.   The results of the study and the asset valuation methodology were
considered and accepted by ESCOM.   However, ESCOM is of the view that the
financial statements should continue to be prepared under the modified historical
cost convention, whereby fixed assets are partially revalued to the extent of
exchange losses arising on long-term debt each year. ESCOM' s considered judgment
is that by incorporating fixed assets at replacement cost in the financial
statements would place ESCOM in an unfavorable light vis-a-vis other parastatals
and companies due to the significantly lower operating surplus and return on
assets which would be reported under the revised practice. According to ESCOM
the replacement cost method of accounting is not used by any company in Malawi
and is therefore concerned that the adoption by ESCOM of such a method will be
misunderstood and misinterpreted.   After discussions at appraisal during
September 1991, ESCOM has agreed to prepare as from 1991/92, supplementary
financial statements, incorporating fixed assets at replacement cost, which will
be presented together with the main historical cost financial statements and
reported upon by the external auditors  in their audit  report.    During
negotiations, agreement was reached that ESCOM would revalue its assets annually
and submit a supplementary financial statement based on revalued assets together
with its audited accounts.
5.10      The asset revaluation was carried out on the basis of replacement cost
of all the assets  in service.   Ueeful asset lives were determined  and
depreciation provided to give net asset values which would be depreciated over
the remaining asset lives.  The result of the revaluation was a three-fold
increase in net book value producing a revaluation surplus of Kwacha 480 million
approximately, compared to the historical equity of Kwacha 164 million at March
31, 1991. On replacemL... ist basis, the depreciation charge for 1990/91 would
have been Kwacha 35 million compared to the historic cost depreciation charge
(which equals the current Kwacha value of loan repayments in the year) of Kwacha
16 million.
5.11      Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs were last increased by 7.5% across the
board with effect from April 1, 1991 (previous increase of 10.0% on April 1,
1990). The average tariff for the current fiscal year 1991/92 is expected to be
t13.53 (USc4.67). Based on the present capital expenditure program, ESCOM is
expected to meet its financial targets of debt service coverage of 1.5 and a self
financing ratio of 30% for the current fiscal year 1991/92.
4/    ESCON, Study for the Revaluation of FPxed Aesets, June 1991, ESB International



- 37 -
5.12      Under Credit 1990-MAI A tariff study was conducted under Credit 1990-
MAI by Price Waterhouse in association with British Electricity International
LtdS/.  A draft report was submitted to ESCOM in July 1991 and recommends
changes in the structure and adjustment in the rates of ESCOM's tariffs. The
draft study concludes that the rates in force are below the long run marginal
cost (LRMC) for the domestic and for the low voltage and medium voltage
industrial consumert, but are above the LRMC for the general tariff consumers.
In view of the substantial adjustments required (differences up to +36Z for the
former 3 categories and -222 for the latter), the study proposes a gradual
adjustment (over a 2 - 3 year period) of the existing rates to LRMC based -
tariff rates. The study also recommends the following changes in regard to the
tariff structure: (a) abolition of low density and high density domestic consumer
categories with a lifeline rate for the smallest domestic consumera; and (b) for
the industrial group of consumers, in lieu of the existing single category,
introduction of voltage - based maximum demand charges in two categories - low
voltage and medium voltage. It is recommended that the general tariff structure,
which embraces mainly commercial consumers and institutions (hospitals, schools
etc.), remains unchanged.   The appraisal mission discussed the consultant's
recommendations and IDA's comments with ESCOM.  The consultant is currently
reviewing ESCOM's and IDA's comments and a final report should be available prior
to negotiations. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Goverrment
and ESCOM that IDA's view on the recommendations of the tariff study would be
taken into account and the recommendations so agreed shall be implemented over
a period not exceeding three years commencing not later than April 1, 1993. The
existing and the first draft of the proposed tariffs are shown in Annexes 5.7 and
5.8.
51.3      Financial Proiections.  The financial projections of ESCOM for the
eight years 1991/92 through to 1998/99, the year following the commissioning year
of the project, together with financial indicators, are set out in detail in
Annexes 5.1 through 5.4. Notes and assumptions made in the preparation of these
forecasts are given in Annex 5.6. Certain important assumptions with regard to
currency exchange rates, lead growth, inflation and revalued asset base are
subject to considerable uncertainty. Adjustments may therefore be required to
the projected. figures if these assumptions are not met in any significant
respect. Annex 5.5 provides the definition used to compute the self financing
ratios stated in this section and also illustrates a working example of the
calculation of the self financing ratio.
5.14      Major financial indicators for three selected years are shown in Table
5.4 below:
ESCOM, consulting services for Tariff Study. Draft Final Report, July 1991 Price
Water Hou8e in association with BEI.



- 38 -
Table 5.4
linaneial Indioato1cg
(as forecast)
1991/92      1994)95     1997198
Sales                    GWh           643          802          990
Average Tariff           tlkWh          13.53        19.01       20.44
Average Tariff           USc/kWh        4.67          6.21        6.53
Average Operating Incon  t/kWh          3.35          7.92        8.10
Debt Service Ratio       times          2.3           2.6         1.5
Self Financing Ratio     2              32           25          52
Return on Assets -
Revalued Bases          2              2.8          6.5          5.4
Historical Basis /a     2             17.8         22.5         11.8
Debt Equity Ratio        Z              27           49          48
Current Ratio            times          1.0           1.8         1.3
Receivables/Sales        daye           60           60          60
Bl Based on partially revalued assets.
5.15     Regular increases in tariffs would be required to enable ESCOM to
continue to meet its future operating costs, working capital and debt service
requirements, as well as financirn . reasonable piart of its investment program.
Based on the assumptio.s made a,  the resulting financial projections, tariff
increases would require to be implemented at the average rates of 12% each year
for 1992!93 through to 1994/95, and 7.51 each for 1995/96 and 1998/99.   No
increases would be needed in 1996/97 and 1997/98.   The projected indicative
increases in tariff are considered to be realistic in terms of implementation
(based on past record) and modest in relation to thLe considerably high investment
program, and are, as per present practice, subiject to annual review.   In
addition, the existing tariff structure and the modification of the rates to
comply with the agreed recommendations of the tariff study (para 5.12) will be
adjusted gradually.
5.16     The financial projections show a satisfactory performance over the
forecast period through to 1998/99.  The proposed tariff increases are expected
to generate adequate funds to finance approximiately 301 of ESCOM's capital
investments from internal sources, including customier contributions and deposits,
during the period under review. The projected results indicate a good debt
service coverage varying between 1.5 and 2.9 through to 1997/98; however,
dropping to 1.2 in 1989/99. The projections reflect a full revaluation of the
fixed assets throughout. The rate of return on revalued basis improves from a
low 2.82 in 1991/92 to aver 4.5Z thereafter. The debt equity ratio is considered
to remain healthy throughout, although based on revalued assets it climbs to 50
in 1995/96 reflecting the large borrowing to finance heavy capital spending.
During negotiations, agreements will be reached that ESCOM will not incur any
debt unless a reaeonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures show that the
projected internal cash generation is at least 1.50 times the projected debt
service requirement on all debt, including the debt to be incurred.
5.17     The on-going Energy I Credit replaced a rate of return (ROR) covenant
of previous lending operations in Malawi by a self financing ratio (SFR)
covenant. The main justification for the change was the uncertainty on the value
of ESCOPl's assets.  These have eince been revalued (para. 5.9).  The projected



- 39 -
rate of return on revalued asset basis (para. 5.16) is almost half of an
acceptable rate of return (about 8%) for a power utility which, if applied, will
result in much higher tariff increases than those indicated in paragraph 5.15
above6/.  Such increases are not warranted by ESCOM's financial requirements,
and will not be politically acceptable. Consequently# a self financing ratio is
included in the formulation of ESCOM's financial covenants in the proposed Power
V Project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that ESCOM would: (i) generate
from internal sources not less than 30% of the average annual capital expenditure
incurred or expected to be incurred over a three period, comprising the current
year, the years preceding and following the said current year; (ii) review
annually with IDA and the Government whether ESCOM will meet the requirements set
in (i); and (iii) if the requirements set out will not be met, together with the
Government take all necessary measures including adjustment to tariffa to comply
with the requirements.
5.18     Pronosed  Financing  Plan.    A  detailed  statement  of  source  and
application of funds for ESCOM is shown in Annex 5.4. Table 5.5 below gives a
summary financing plan for the period 1991/92 through to 1997/98.
Table 5.5
Financing Plan 1991/92 - 1997/98
- Million ----- Z of
K         US$ _        Tal
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures
Proposed Project                         701.4     229.9          42
Other                                    767.5     254.5          47
Total                                 1468.9     484.4          89
Interest During Consatruction (IDC)
Proposed Project                         125.1      40.5           7
Other                                     58.9       19.5           4
Total                                  184.0      60.0          11
Total Requirements                   1652.9     544.4         100
Sources of Funds
Generation from Operations                  783.0      255.8          47
Less: Debt Service                          371.0      120.7          22
Increase in Working Capital                 9.1        2.7           1
402.9     132.4          24
Consumers' Contributions &
Deposits                                 101.4      33.0          30
Internal Sources                            504.3      165.4          30
Less:  Increase in cash Balance              54.8       17.6           3
449.5     147.8          27
Grants                                        3.5        1.2           -
Borrowings                                 1199.9      395.4          73
Total Sources                        1652.9     1404.4         lO
6/    Replacing the 302 SPR by a ROR covenant, of say 82, on revalued assets will result
in au average annual tariff Increase of 10.72 over the period 1992-1999 and will
generate cash surplus of R300 mIllion by PY1998/99 compared to 154.8 million vIth
the 302 SFR. A combination of SFR up to 1997 and 8X ROR In 1998 and 1999 will
result In an average anual increase of 10.7Z and a cash balance of R205 million.



- 40 -
5.19     During the construction period of the project from 1991/92 through to
1997/98, the total investment program of ESCOM is estimated to amount to K1634
million (US$544 million), including interest during construction of R185 million
(US$60 million). The proposed project (of which Kapichira Phase I accounts for
78% of total project costs) represents about 49% or R826 million of the
investment program during this period. Funds from internal sources, including
consumer contributions and deposits and after covering debt service and increases
in working capital, will produce approximately 30% of the funds required for the
investment program during the period April 1, 1991 to March 31, 1998.  An
increase in cash balance amounting to K54.8 million (or 3% of the investment
program) arises during this period. This is a healthy cushion in case of cost
overruns or similar untoward events during the construction of a major project.
Borrtowings will secure 73% of the capital expenditure during the period 1991/92
through to 1997/98.
5.20     Most of the investment program of the power sector has secured sources
of financing in the form of mainly borrowing.   If the present practice of
financing all foreign currency requirements through borrowing is continued then
73% of the capital expenditure will be financed in this way during the period
1991/92 through to 1997/98.
VI ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Least cost Power System Expansion
6.1      The  alternatives  for meeting  Malawi's  forecast  requirement  for
additional power supply in 1997 are a new hydroelectric plant on the Shire river;
a coal fired thermal power plant; a gas turbine or diesel power plant; and
imports from neighboring Mozambique or Zambia. Imported fuel (coal and diesel
fuel) for power generation are high cost and unreliable (para. 1.2C).   The
average cost of energy from a coal fired power plant (unit sizes 25MW) is
estimated at almost 8 cents per kWh at 1990 price levels. The cost of fuel alone
for a 20MW gas turbine is estimated at almost 30 cents per kWh. The average cost
for a diesel power plant, with unit sizes of 15MW, is assessed at 13 cents per
kWh. The corresponding annuitized cost of energy generated from Kapichira, the
least cost hydro source of supply (Annex 6.1), is 2.8 cents per kWh. Neither
Mozambique nor Zambia will have significant quantities of surplus power available
for export to Malawi after the year 2000, which rules out the import option. The
Kapichira scheme is thus very clearly the least-cost source of additional supply.
Relationship of the Project to the Bank's Enerav Sector Objectives
6.2      In the electric power sub-sector, the Bank's primary objectives are to
promote least-cost expansion of the power system to serve viable new loads and
to optimize the reliability and reduce the cost of electricity supply.  The
project will support the first of these objectives by financing both the
Kapichira hydro-electric scheme, which is the next least-cost major source of
additional power supply, and selective reinforcement and extension of the power
distribution Gystem. It will support the second pair of objectives by financing



- 41 -
rehabilitation of the exiGting hydro generation facilities, replacement of the
unreliable Lilongwe-Chintheche transmission line and the uprating of overloaded
distribution transformers to improve system reliability and reduce technical
losses at the distribution level. In the petroleum sub-sector, the project will
support the Bank's objective of reducing the cost of petroleum supply by helping
the PCC identify and exploit lower-cost procurement options. The assistance in
energy planning will strengthen Government institutions and capability in this
area.
Economic Justification for Investment in new Sunnlv and Generation Rehabilitation
6.3      Assuming electricity demand expands in accordance with the Base case
forecast (para. 3.4 and Annex 3.1) the hydro system's firm energy capability will
be about 50 GWh less than projected energy demand in 1995, 125 GWh less than
demand in 1996 and almost 200 GWh less than demand in 1997   (Annex 3.3).
Available supplementary thermal generation capacity on the integrated system is
less than 20 MW, with an annual energy capability of about 85 GWh at a 50% load
factor. Should the 1995-97 period be characterized by low rainfall and river
flows, the power system would therefore be severely energy constrained,
particularly in the latter two years, even with maximum thermal generation. The
risk of this eventuality, and consequent load shedding and its high economic
cost, justifies both the commissioning of a new source of supply by 1997 at the
latest and the very modest planned expenditure on rehabilitation of the existing
hydro and thermal generating capacity to ensure its maximum availability during
the critical 1995-97 period.
Justification for the Transmission Line CoMRonent
6.4      The proposed new 132 kV Lilongwe - Chintheche transmission line will
replace an existing 132 kV wood pole line. The existing line, which currently
carries a load of 9 MW, is the sole means of bulk power supply to the northern
region of Malawi. It serves a number of sugar, tobacco, tea and coffee estates,
a plywood factory and several thousand residential consumers. Demand is growing
at over 7% per annum and could be supplemented by proposed paper, cement and
irrigation projects in the next few years. Constructed in 1980, the existing
wood pole line hao suffered from severe termite damage. It is currently shut
down for one day every two weeks for planned pole replacement and additionally
for an average of 120 hours per year by unplanned outages, which are increasing
by 5-10% per year. Replacement of the line with a 132 kV steel tower line is the
most cost-effective option to ensure reliable power supply. Using actual costs
of diesel generation on the isolated northern system (K 0.9/kWh) as a
conservative measure of outage cost to consumers, and factoring in the savings
in line repair costs, the economic rate of return of the transmission line
replacement is 12% (Annex 6e2).
Justification for the Distribution Reinforcement Component
6.5      The primary objectives of the project's distribution reinforcement
component are to reduce the current high rate of losses on the power system and
to satisfy growing demand for power. Transmission and distribution losses on the
interconnected system were 18.7% of units generated and 22.3% of maximum demand
in 1989, about twice the levels typical of an efficient power system. A loss
reduction study was undertaken in 1990 to identify the major sources of losses



- 42 -
in the distribution system, the inadequate capacity of which is the main cause
of the high system losses. This study identified substations and lines that are
overloaded, estimated the extent of the resulting losses and identified the least
cost option for reducing them. These costs were then compared with the value of
the losses avoided, estimated from the LRMC of power and energy, respectively
K407.3/kW and KO.04/kWh.  Sub-projects with an economic rate of return of over
15% were then selected for inclusion in the distribution reinforcement component.
Examples of the analysis performed are given in Annex 6.3 for one of the proposed
sub-projects  at  Thyolo.    Following  implementation  of  the  distribution
reinforcement program, it is estimated that losses will be reduced to 132 of
units generated.  This 5% reduction has been factored in to ESCOM's generation
planning and has thereby postponed the need for new generation capacity.
Economic Rate of Return
6.6      The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the project has been
calculated for the power system investments and technical assistance components
of the project combined, which represent over 981 of its total costs. The costs
and benefits of the later Phase It of the Kapichira scheme (Units 3, 4 and 5)
have been included in the analysis as these cannot logically be separated from
those of Phase I of the scheme. The ERR is defined as the discount rate at which
the present value of the capital, operating and maintenance costs of the power
components equals the present value of their forecast economic benefits. All
costs and benefits are expressed in 1990 constant prices. Incremental operating
and maintenance costs are estimated at 2% of capital costs, which is typical of
a  hydro-based  power  system.    Incremen_.al  benefits  for  the  generation
rehabilitation and transmission/distribution reinforcement components were
estimated separately from those of the Kapichira hydro-electric scheme, as
summarized in Annex 6.4.  The benefits of the generation rehabilitation and
transmission/distribution components were valued at the avoided cost of diesel
generation; the benefits of the Kapichira scheme (very conservatively) at the
planned 1998 tariff (the first year of service), deflated to a 1990 price
equivalent. Based on the above assumptions, the project's estimated economic
rate of return is 16.1Z, which is well above the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Malawi.
6.7      The ERR was tested for sensitivity to the project's major riskse which
are judged to be underestimation of the capital cost of the Kapichira
hydroelectric scheme and overestimation of future demand growth. A 202 increase
in the capital cost of Kapichira would lower the ERR to 14.0Z, 202 slower growth
in demand than forecast would reduce it to 12.1%. The project therefore appears
economically Justified in the face of either risk.



- 43 -
VII. AGREELENTS REACHED AnD RECOMMENDATION
7.1      During neWotiations it was agreed that:
(a)   Government and ESCOM would consult on qualification and experience
of appointees to the posts of ESCON's General Manager and senior
positions reporting to the General Manager, and would take IDA's
view into consideration on the appointments (2.13).
(b)   Government would  take  IDA's view  into account prior  to the
implementation of the recommendations of the energy pricing study
and the recommendations so agreed to be put into effect commencing
from April 1, 1993 (2.23).
(c)   ESCOM would not undertake any major expansions in excess of US$5
million not included in the IPPS agreed with IDA unless ESCOM shall
have furnished to the Association satisefactory evidence that such an
investment is technically and economically Justified; (ii) the
Government and ESCOM shall review the IPPS with IDA annually and
agree on any changes (4.6).
(d)   Government would either conclude or cause ESCOM to conclude: (i) by
not later than February 28,1993 an agreement with AfDB for the
financing of the two turbines and generators needed for Phase I of
Kapichira (para 4.17); and (ii) by not later than June 30,1993,
agreements for the financing of the transmission and distribution
reinforcement sub-components of the Project.
(e)   (i)  ESCOM would be allowed to correspond directly with IDA on all
matters related to project implementation and performance; (ii)
Government's mandatory approval of procurements would be at the
contract award stage; and (iii) the threshold value for the
mandatory review by Government would be increased to US$3009000 for
procurements pertinent to the power component of the Project (for
detaile refer to para 4.21).
(f)   ESCOM would:  (i) compensate the wildlife conversion either in kind
or as may be agreed between ESCOM and the Department of Parks and
Wildlife; and (ii) establish an in-house environmental unit which
would be responsible for implementing environmental mitigation and
monitory plans (4.24); and (iii) compensate the resettlement of the
affected people along the route of the transmission line (4.25).
(g)   EPD, PCC and TCC would submit to IDA the audited accounts for the
non-power subcomponents, including the Statement of Expenditures
together with the Auditor's Reports Bank within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year (4.24).
(h)   ESCOM would continue to keep its accounts receivables to no more
than 60 days of sales (5.7).



- 44 -
(1)   ESCOM would have its accounts audited, including the Special Account
and the Statement of Expenditures, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and sent to the Bank within four months after
ESCOM's fiscal year ends (5.8).
(j)   ESCOM would revalue its assets annually and submit a supplementary
financial statement based on revalued assets together with its
audited accounts (5.9);
(k)   IDA's view would be taken into account on the recommendations of the
tariff study and the recommendations so agreed shall be implemented
over a period not exceeding 3 years commencing not later than April
1, 1993 (5.12).
(1)   ESCOM would not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its
revenue and expenditures show that the projected internal cash
generation is at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement on all debt, including the debt to be incurred (5.16).
Cm)   (i) ESCOM would finance yearly from internal sources not loes  than
30% of its average capital expenditures incurred or expected to be
incurred over a three year period, comprising the current year, the
years preceding and following the said current year; (ii) review
annually with the Government and IDA whether ESCOM would meet the
requirement set out in (i)l and (iii) together with the Government
take all necessary measures including adjustments to tariffs (5.17).
7.2      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Government would execute an on-lending agreement with ESCOM for
US$53.75 million at 7.23% interest rate and 20 years repayment
including 5 years grace (4.16).
(b)   Government and ESCOM would take appropriate actions to ensure that
notifications by CDC and BIB are received by IDA prior to the first
disbursement of their respective loans (4.17).
7.3      Conditlions of Disbursement
(a)   For the energy planning and policy subcomponent, placement of at
least one additional experienced economists in the Energy Division
of EPD (1.19).
(b)   For the power component, placement of a manager for the power
component of the Project (4.19).
7.4      Recommendation
With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for an IDA credit
of SDR39.2 million (US$55 million equivalent) to the Republic of Malawi at
standard terms, with maturity of 40 years including 10 years grace.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1.1
MALAWI
ENERGY I PROJECT
HYDROELECTIRC POTENTIAL OF MALAWI
Basin                          Potentlal                 Installed
MW                       MW
Shire Valle
Nkula Falls                       124                      104
Tedzanl Falls                      90                       40
Kholombldzo                       140
Kapichira Falls                   120
Mpatamanga Gorge                  120
Subtotal                        594                      144
Others
South Rukuru 1                    102
South Rukuru II                   125
Bua                                87
Subtotal                        314
Grand Total                     908                       144



- 46 -
ANNEX 12
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
ENERGY BALANCE, 1989
(000 toe)
Petroleum                                        Fuelwood
Products   ElectricitY      anol        Ca   & Charcoal           !
PRIMARY SUPPLY
Production                 -            54.30        3.90        21.40     3105.60     3185.20
Import                     119.10      -           -             10.00      -           129.10
Stock Change               -           -              1.40      -           -             1.40
Total                      119.10       54.3          5.30       31.40     3105.60     3315.70
Per Cent of Total            3.59        1.63        0.16         0.95       93.67      100.00
Transformation &
Distribution Losses        -1.00       -9.20      -            -          -865.50     -875.70
Net Supply                 118.10       45.10        5.30        31.40     2240.10     2440.00
Statiscal AdJustments        4.00       -5.80                   -10.00      -           -11.80
Final Consumotion          122.10 i3930                          21.40     2240.10     2428.20
Households                  4.50        8.00      -            -          2060.20     2072.70
Agriculture                14.90        8.80       -             0.30      179.90      203.90
Industry/Commence          22.80       21.70      -             21.10      -            65.60
Transport                  79.90        0.80         5.30                               86.00
Flnal ConsuMotlon In!%
Households                   3.68       20.35                  -            91.97        85.36
Agriculture                 12.20       22.39      -             1.40         8.03        8.40
Industry/Commerce           18.67       55.22      -            9860                      2.70
Transport                   65.45        2.4       1O.00                   3---            . 4
100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00      100.00       100.00
1inuS11     MM        inz====     ====Mz        aum==     mmm11F



MALAWI
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION AT GOVERNMENT LEVEL
For Medium Term Planning Process
(All Parastatals)
| MEDIUM-TERM 
(ICORPORA EPLAN
-DSB coordinales meeting ot Treasury, Parent Ministry,
tPaastatal Management and EP& D representative
AttendancelAttendance
PARENT MINISTRY                                       DEPARTMENT OF   |
STATUTOIY BODIES                                         TREASURY
Treasury intonns
DSB of medium-lerm
financial constraints
IS
Board of Trustees
approves submission to DSB
Parent Mnisfrsy provides                                                                                  DSB circulates parastatsl with
sectoral policy r guideline                            BOARD OF TRU- financial consorains
Paraslatal of develop plan
and financial forecast
|  PARASTATAL 
MANAGEMENT 
i
arr,\w30463



ASSISTANT
FINANCIAL
CONTROLLER
ASSI$TANr
CONTROLLER1
ASSISTANT
FINANCIAL
CONTAOLLER
PROCESSINS
MANAGCERl         _
AREA
MANAGER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
AREA
MANAGER          _
R~~~~~~~~~~
(C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.
AREA_
MANAGER                              FMg 
(N)                                                                                            SD
COMMERCIAL         _                                                                                  '
MANAGER                                                                                           4
CA
en C
[     TENPRANNING                                              C 
MANAGER                                                                                               M
P MANAECR                                 M                                               0      
PEASNNGER
G| NERANMISON 
[      MANAGER
l ~ ~  ~         ~~~~~            9_    -
|     TECHNICALEMS
I  OPERATINS       l_
MAANAGER     _
Mr              _ S|O
|   AET  AAGER   I 
ADTECHNICAL        L
M_ADVISOR J-
|  TRAINING        l
M ANAGER          |      | 
PERSONNEL                 Li 
MANAGER .                             |gr   |
I ADMINISTRAIVE                
|MANA-ERL_



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
SELECTED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actual                                      Projected
188    1987      1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1998     1994     1995
Installed Capacity (MW)
Hydro                    144.6    144.6    144.6    144.6    144.6    144.6    184.6    164.6    214.6    214.8
Diesel                    8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0
Gasturbine                16.0     16.0     16.0     16.0     16.0     16.0     16.0     18.0     16.0     15.0
Total                   167.6    167.6    187.6    167.6    167.8    167.6    187.8    187.6    237.6    237.8
Dependable Capacity (MW)    136.0    130.0    136.0    136.0    136.0    136.0    168.0    166.0    198.0    198.0
PeakDemand(MW)             94.8     97.2    101.0    113.7    119.4    134.6    148.7    167.9    18e.6    178.9
Generatlon (GWh)          619.7    607.6    688.8    636.8    703.9    732.5    814.1    86e.8    911.2    977.2
Load factor °h             82.6     66.7     66.6     63.9     67.3      82.2     62.6     82.7    62.9      62.4
Auxiliary consumption (GWh)  2.8     2.9      2.6      2.0      3.6       3.7     4.1       4.3      4.6      4.9
Net Generation (GWh)      617.2    665.0    686.3    634.2    700.4    728.8    810.0    862.6    906.6    972.3
Sales (GWh)               433.6    472.4    484.8    626.9    668.9    626.9    896.7    741.1    788.2    844.6
Lossee(GWH)                83.7     92.6    101.7    107.3    131.6    102.9    114.3    121.4    118.4    127.8
Lossosin%ofNG              16.2     16.4      17.3     16.9     18.8     14.1     14.1     14.1     13.1     13.1
No. of connectlons      33300.0  36600.0  38100.0  40800.0  43600.0  46800.0  60100.0  64000.0  67000.0  61000.0
No. of employees         2100.0   2475.0   2200.0   2000.0   2060.0   2100.0   2160.0   2300.0   2360.0   2400.0
Connectlonseemployee       16.9      14.4     17.3    20.4      21.3     22.3     23.3     23.6     24.3     26.4



- 50 -
ANNEX2.4
Page 1 o 3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES. 1990
ESCOM'S GENERATING PLANT I/
Location                    Comm.    No. of    Rating of    Total Inst.                Availability
Interconnected                 Date      Unit    Units kW    Capac. kW         Tvpe           low
System (ICS)
Zomba                         1063          1         300                      Hydro            -
1854         1         300          G00
Nkula Fais A                  1988         2         8000                     Hydro          82.1
1967         1        8000        24000
Tedzani Falls                 1973         2        10000                      Hydro
1976         1        10000                     Hydro         89.2
1977         1        10000       40000         Hydro
Nkula Falls B                 1980         2        20000                     Hydro            as
1981         1       20000                      Hydro
1980         1       20000        80000         Hydro
Blantyre                       1975                  15000        18C00    Gas Turbine
Lilongwe                       1972         1        3000
1974         1         1100        6400        Diesel
1979         1         1300
Kasungu                        1972        2            85                    Diesel
1974         1          a5           360       Diesel
1970         1          105                    Diesel
Nzuzu                          1974         1         260                     Diesel
1976         1          160        2260        Diesel
1980         1         1100                    Diesel
1983                   700                     Dlesel
Total IC                                                        107010
Ilolated System (138)
Karonga                       1980         2           120                    DIesel
1983         1          120                    Diesel
1984         1         200                     Diesel
Chitipa                        1988         2          150         880
Total ICS & IS. of which                                        108160
Hydro (ICS)                                                    144600
Diesel                                                           8620
Gas Turbine                                                     16000



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.4
MALAWI                            Page 2 o1 3
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES' 1988-90
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM                   1988        1989         1990
Unes
132kV lines, Km                     340.69      416.69       416.69
66kV llnes, Km                     1093.00     1018.04      1018.04
Substation Capacity. MVA
182.60      187.60       187.60
242.00      379.60       394.60
Subtransmlsslon & Distribution
33kVoverhead lines, Km             1444.60      1613.60     1538.00
11kVoverhead llnes. Km             1685.90      1739.40     1776.70
33kV underground cable, Km            2.70         2.70        2.70
11kV underground cable. Km           78.90        78.20       81.70
LV underground cable, Km            128.90       138.20      144.70
Distribution Transformers
33/11kV(MVA)                         77.00        89.00       92.00
3-1lkV/.4-.23kV(MVA)                234.30       250.70      264.80
Interruption
Planned 132kV transmission
Outages, No                        16.00       15.00        12.00
Duration hours                    131.56      131.16       103.64
Hours/outage                        8.20        8.70         8.60
Forced 132kV outages, No.             4.70        3.60         2.90
Duration                            1.00        5.00         2.00
Outage/hours                        6.00       16.89        16.90
Outage/100Km                        0.30        1.20         0.50
Planned 66kV transmission
Outages, No.                       38.00       55.00        78.00
Duration/hours                    269.82      413.63       591.77
Hours/outages                       6.80        7.60         7.60
Outage/100Km                        3.50        5.40         7.60
Forced 66kV transmIssIon
Outages, No.                        8.00       22.00        16.00
Housr/outages                     29.67       217.88       183.24
Outage/001Km                        0.70        2.20         1.60
Losses L(S of Net Generation) and Maxlmum Demand (MW)
Years          00 Losses    Peak MW
1979               8.00
1979                9.00
1980                9.80       68.20
1981               12.40       66.20
1982               12.80       70.60
1983               11.70       73.40
1984               13.20       84.60
1986               15.80       81.80
1986               16.10       94.80
1987               1B.60       97.20
1988               17.30      101.00
1989               16.80      113.70
1990               18.70      119.40



- 52 -
ANNEX2.4
MALAWI                               Page 3 Of 3
POWER V PROJECT
EXISTING FACILITIES 1990
SUMMARY LIST OF PRIVATE GENERATING PLANT
Region and Te of Ucenseg                  Installed Capacltv KW
Steam       Diesel       Hydro        Total
Southern Region
Tea Industry                                  1808.00     3143.00      1032.00     5983.00
Sugar Industry                                7600.00                               7500.00
Other Industries                                            785.00                   786.00
Services I/                                                1219.00       65.00      1284.00
Railways                                                   371.00                    371.00
Subtotal                                     9308.00     5V 18.00     1097.00     15923.00
Central Region
Sugar Industry                                7000.00      270.00                   7270.00
Services                                                   1088.00                  1688.00
Railways                                                    82.00                     82.00
Subtotal                                     7000.00     2040.00                   9040.00
Northern
Tea and Agriculture                            608.00      437.00                   1045.00
Services                                                   287.00       146.00       412.00
Subtotal                                      608.00       704.00      148.00      1457.00
Total                                       16918.00     8262.00      1242.00     20420.00
1/ Servicos Include Government offices, and buliding. missions, embassies and communications.



t>08P;l ~~~~~ ~  Ii^ ; ^ ; ; " 0i   R k     S        8
HEiN     -  I                L[8S
WW8b      8888888888> <a88&  ;u2             88      88           0
o. g.J i      7e08  i~_So<ww°wXO°ww^a            SS       S1  
; i > b W ; 8 i°2 oP o G *i  o ss          8   °  w t 8  88
is ~   ~        I
~8a eweg3o  4   3*    to°wS      U8888  S   0                       9 | 
0                                    -s
'C                                      - w     - 8 44 8 ig , < Q  ~ ° 2 U 3l     8 Sto
o      Ii  8 88  i   0b<h 8   O  i  8   N       8 s8   88
gP I °gdtA                   -- £ 
1-6 X2INNW5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



1A3AAm
Dl_"M        5 D5S    DEWARD, w           AQwI
ACtuAL (343)AND WOJ1!D
11s5    t         a    91            m       tw9     t9t9 1001991      102 103   17!b t i9 5 15w1         6 159    7 1 t     a, MD_  Dl                 2082    20                205
lnu>                            7.73      356     a99      9.9l    11.02    21.1      12.40    12.96    13.74    14.69    15.74    16.#3    18.12    19.44    2036    22.39    24.03    25.79    27.67    29.70    31S7
1   .9 0 Z2     2.01     2.19     2.40  5 29        23       3.0      3.33     3.60     3.91     4.23     459      4.97     3.39     5.35     6.34     6.87    7.43     8.07     8.75
11.33     2.64    13.92    15.27    1641    14.62    23.41    2202    2.49    25.37    27.50    29.        32.4     35.32    33442    41.79    45.46    49.45    53.79    s51    63.65
9Smull'aw                      27.4!    2354    26.       27.34    31.11    2538    38.60    44.36      73    53.27    5S58    64.23    70.43    77.o0    84.32    92.19   IOD.76   110.10   120D.    138.2   343.57
__                             4.92     1186    33.21     1152    I1.10     9.05     9.32     9.60     9.9    10.19    10.49    10.31    11.13    31.46    11.31    12.16    12.53    10    13.29    13.69    14.10
6.30     6.30     6.67     6.67     6.       6.7      7.37     7.60     7.82    8.09       49     3.73     9.3      9.42     9.6      9.91    10.13    W04      10.73    11.02    11.32
-Pm1ha(                        81.63     3.83     3.73    237      22       2.63     2.80     2.80     2.       2.       2.8D     2.0      2.30     2.80     2.30     2.S      2.3      2.6     29       2.92     2S5
-bw05WMI              _        43       4.5D     4.93     4SS      5.26     4.2      4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21     4.21    4.21     4.21     421
-VIfpI.w iOCO                           O.t      O 0.00   0.09    OD 9     0.38      .42     I.n      1.72    8.72      1.72     1.72     1.72              1.72     1.72     1.72     1.72     1.72    1.72     1.72
-Gt".af                        O.OD     O.0       .0.     0.09     0.00     1.14     1.15     1.24     1.2      1.48     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.69     1.6.6    9.6     1.69
-Tobm=P                        O.OD     0.66     0.8D     0.95     0.94     0.95     0.95     0.93     0.95     0.95     0.93     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.9f     0.95    0.95     095      OSS
- Mimld                        0         33O.O   1 .24    1.2S     1.48     2.03     2.34     2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84     2.34     2*4      2.34     2.4      24       234      2.4      2.4     2S4      234
._ikwM.b(2aSt)                 0.00     0.00     O.OD O              D 0.00  0.09   0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     I.8      1.3      IB3      aSS      183      IB3      1.8      1.3      13      1.3
-D    UA=                      0.00    3L         34      8.56     133      0.92     3.36     2.06     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04     2.04    2.04     2.04
-131m 1hwma0o. O0O                      0.76     0S5    09        0.97     1.12      3.21    2.42     2.42     2.42     2.42     2.42     2.42     2.42     Z42      Z42      2.42     2.42     242     2.42     Z42
-SMb5     QAQ                  0.09     0.09 0.     0     0.09     0.59     0.63S     .19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19     1.19    1.19     1.19
_btwd-06020                    0.09     0.09     0.09     0.09     0.1.     0.09     0.00     0.09     0.09     0.09     0.09     0.09     0.00     0.000    0.00 0.09         O.D     0.OD     O.OD    O.OD     0.00  SJI
-V l                           0.09D    O.9      0O.      0.09     0.0      0.09     0.00     0.00 O   0.09     0.09     0.       0.00     0.09     0.00     0.09     0.09     0.09     00      0.00     0.00     0.09 43-
-                              0.09     0.00     0.0      0.09     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.OD     0.0 0  O.O9       O.OD    OO.      0.00     0.00     00       O.OD     O.OD    0.00     0.09     0.00     O.OD I
s5b4M3                          37.63    25.32    35.9#    30.12    31.6    30.43    34.76    37.55    38.10    33.87    39.73    41.28    42C9    42.62    43.21    43.81    44.45    45.15    45.3     46.31    47.31
Eapca                           0.26     0.17     0.00     0.09     0.00     024      0.61     0.64     0.8      0.72     3.06     1.15     1.22     1.29     1.37     14       1.54     1.63     1.73    1.3      3.4
IIIICINECiSSYSIEt
C3      uIoOk   D    5W)       -2.04    -0.11   -38.45    -?.60    -3.3     -6.65
Tud           (1W)             6424    74.14    75.74    77.43    8.47    90.42   109.61   12D.61   128.07   13652   146.59   157.70   168.93   83D.73   19357   2D7.48   2261   293.99   256.78   276.10   297.09
A u7,C-             (1W) OM     0.49     0.3      0.46     0.44     0.4      0.61     0.65     0.72     0.76    03       0.86     0.92     0.99     1.06     8.13     1.21     1.30     3.4      3.5      1.61     1.74
TX.  D      E.Lm    S           20.90    21.30    23.60    22.90    2.30    24B.0      8.30    38.50   I350   31720    17.20    17.20    17.20    17.20    17.2D    17.20    17.20    17.20    17.20    17.2D    17.20
1m             (18W)           17.12    20.      20.99    23.13    25.36    29.3     24.95    27.57    29.29    2849    30.79    32.79    33.31    37.78    40.46    43.36    46.52    49.95    53.67    51.7I    62.09
G.cacd          0Wm             SI333   94.3D    97.20   103.00   313.70   119.40   134.53   148.68   157.94   165.47   17S.85   191.43   205.05   219.0   234.97   251.35   270.20   290.10   311.7D   335.15   360.61
G wauhh.i%S                              83.9      2.3      3.9     12.6      5.0     12.7      10.5     6.2      4.8      8.3      7.0      7.1      7.0      7.1      7.2      7.3      7.4      7.4     7.5      7.6
Lad F ain bmw ) s               67.3    62.6      66.7    66.6      63.9     67.3     62.4    62.7    62.6    62.9    62.7         I2.7    62.6    62.6    62.6        6t6      62.6    62.7    62.7    626        62.6
A-lwt'
..,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



UAL&WI
IPOWER VPROJECf
EUCR1I0r  SUPLY COMUON OF MAAWI
PERaCNNgED328)70S   SAKSE PEAK DEMAND (ENERA1ON
ACUAL   9  AND WOnE
*Cb(Smo
I9ga    1996     3987    1988    1989       1990    *993      1992    1993    1994    399        96      *9       1996    1999    2D00      2001    2002    2003    20R        2005
amNSUMI NUMsM
Law D y                     IZ3.CO 13332.  13429.0D 15443.00 16853.A0 155.0D 19968.00 21466.0  23076.0D 24806.00  2667.00 2867.00 30617.OD 33128.00 35613.OD 384.00 41155.  4424.00 47560.0D 51127.00 59613.
I   D                       122o.00 *277.C0 12946.00 13144.00 13609.C0  13975.00 14947.01 16009.00 17072.0D 18204.00 19441.00 2762.00 22173.00 23679.00 25288.0  22006.0 28841.00 30600.0  32893.00 35127.00 37514.0D
Law IN3y                     450.   4614.00  4527.00  460.    4697.00  4826.00  4462.00  4336.00  4276.0   4253.00  4239.OD  4231.00  4223.00  4235.00  4A.0   4201.0   4194.00  41S7.0D  4179.4D  4112M0   4165m
313t DaOzY                    764.CO   982.00   965D  1034.0O  1098.0D  1159.00  1177.00  1139.00  1213.00  1231.00  1249.00  1268.00  1287.00  3307M   1326.0   13466.0  3.00  1387.00  1406.00  1420.0   3451.0
SdS(GW
L&wD=,                         55.56    63.52    64.55    71.16    79.16    86.90    89.09    93.03   9S.68   305.49    13.05   121.28   130.13   139.65    4936   160.83   17259   385.22   198.77   213.31   MS92
b      l Dai                   33D0   12.S    12.49    13.60       4.94    15.75    17.59    39.34    20.73    22.41    24.29    26.33    28.s4    30.94    33.54    3636    39.41    42.72    46.31    5D.2    54.42
GCpM                      sss5    62.02    6827    74.89      51      89.63   100.10   108.02   115.24   124.43   134.92   146.56   159.34   173.2   188.47   205.0   223M.   24257   263.7   2870    S12.23
SmOu PO1.                     356.10   145.43   149.89   *56.83   177.13   204.54   219.a0   252.57   2.47   303.33   333.57   366.03   401.04   438.95   480.32   524.92   513.71   626.93   684S6   748.31   837A6
- snD                         40.34    47.s5    64.n2   52.45    51.67    47.92    48.42    48.93    49.46    50.01   s505     53.14    51.74    5235    52.98    53.63    54.30    54.9    55.70    5643    57.19 
-obsoma e"Bonsd               45.02    46.74    50.53    52.42   S5.2*    s3.72    64.94    6725    69.34    71.60    74.33    77.38    80.68    83.76    87.1s   91.07    95.98   103.10   105.57   110.22   115.04
- Pgi11d                       9.2D    11.30    11.16    1.44    12.29    12.1a    13.18   13.41    13.64    13.86    34.08    34.29    14.50    14.70    14.90    15.09    15.27    15.44    15.60    1.74    Is=3      -
- David WhiIcm                29.04    27.38    29.68    29.5    31.79    25.43    25.43    25.43    2sA3    25.43    25.43    25.43    25.43    25S3    2sA3    25.43    25.43    25.43    25.3    25.43    25.43
- VrsA SW mm                   0.00     0.00     o.00    o0o      0.00     4.52     7.45     9.03    9.03     9.03     9.03     9.m      9.03    9.03     9.03     9.00     9.03    9.3      9.03     9.00     9.00
-                              o.o-I Led  0.00  0.00  0.00  00    0.0      0.00     3.00     6.06    6.54     6.73     7.80    a87       8.87    8.87     8.7      887      8.7     987      87       8s7      887
-Tao,P oi0.00                           2.87     3.5     4.17     4.34     4.36     4.17     4.17    4.37     4.17     4.17     4.37     4.17    4.17     4.37     4.17     4.17    4.17     4.17     4.37     4.17
- L.4 Lmf                      0.00     6.06    6.54     6.73     7.8    10.64    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    34.90    34.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.9D
-Davi WhWdVd (SW)              0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     o.o0     285     5.69     5.69     5.69    33.39    31.39       113 9         11.39     113. 9 11    1.39    313  11.39    11.39
-  DOASM) 0.00                          4.47     538     5.46     535      322      4.78     7.17    7.37     7.1      7.37     7.17     7.17    7.17     7.32     2.37     1.17    7.37     7.17     7.17     7.17
-LU3JW.ItBMW                  0.00     5.07     5.69     5.91     6.47     7.45     8.06    36.12    36.12    36.12    36.32    36.32    16.32    36.12    16.12    16.12    16.32    1632    16.12    16.32    16.12
-Sam 1- PAM'S)               o0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.43     2.69     4.89     4.89     4.89     4.89    4.89     4.9      4.89     4.89    4.89     4.89     4.9      4.89    4.89     4.89
- *coalm(hj)                 0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    o.0      0.00     0.00    00       O.C0     0.00
- VIPR                         O.D     0.00     O0       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     00       0.0      0.00    0.00     0.00     O.OD     0.00    0.00    O.0      0.00     0.00    0.0o
-                              OD 0     O.      O .G0    O.O     0.00     0.00     O.O0    O.00    O.0     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     O.O0     0.00    0.00     0.00     O.0     0.00    O.
Sadbrlo                       123.60   353.27   177.20   168.08   175.22   121.69   197.02   220.21   226.18   229.60   234.18   244.58   248.89   252.73   257.00   261.76   267.52   273.50   28.84   284.36   2900
EPx                             309      O 0.73   0.00    00       O.OD     0.25     2.25     2.65    2.81     2.96     4.47    4.73     5.02     5.32     5.64     5.98    6.34     6.72     7.12     7.55    8.0
in1C8NNECR ED 5SVS
ToI S.&c     (GW3Z            403.73   433.50   472.40   484.56   526.96   568.76   628.96   698.52   746.80   793.92   956.18  1015.53  1110.50  1178.47   252.3S   32.39  341   1515.19  1617.41  1728.31  18486
Awihu GCa ma (OWb)              2.44     2.50    2.62     2.49     2.58     3.45     3.6S    4.00     4.37     4.59     5.53     5S.7    6.42     6.81     7.24     7.70    8.2      8.76     935      9.99    10.69
Ta..a& DOb  3m     (S)         35.80    16.10    16.30    16.80    17.30    16.80    18.70    14.00    14.00    133.00  3.0      3.00    33.     13.00    13.00    133.0    132.00   3.00     3.00    13.00    13.0D
LAN=    _     wa               76.22    83.67    92.58   101.71   107.24  131.65   302.99   114.3   322    319.32   143.70   352.62   166.90   327.11   188.39   2D024   213.43   227.72   243.0S   259.75   2773
ac j         (GWb)            482.39   519.67   567.60   58S.76   636.8  7103.86   735.63   816.98   823.45   917.83  1105.41  1174.02  1283.82  1362.39  1447.61  13540.33  1641.75  1753.67  1869.84  1998.05  2131.36
Apfl 1991



PIMEWV
n   _csu)92W3U1  .3 SE UMDAW
MD  S   3996        1      L33 1     99      199        193   1992   1393      3994    3995    3996    39_7    19l3    t9S        ____   2Wl    23        2        ZX4 2    2S
OW il                          7.73     6.56     89      9.93    38.9    21.13    3A0    12S.6    13.74    34I6D    t5.74   l3M9    1812    19.4    2D96    23X    2403    25.9    21.6    2979    31.1
3boai                          390      2.Q2     2.01    2.9      2.40    5.2      2M       3.      3.33     3.0      3S91    43       4.59    4S1        S .   5s       634      6.1     7Af      am0     875
GM                            1333      2.66t   13392     27    36.41    142    2.41    22.02    23.4       2537    27.50   i2S3    32.43    35.32      .42    41.29    45A6    49.45   51.9    55        05
6m2oma                        WAS    2.5.4    2632    2754    31.11    23         3L60    4436    0.73    53.7    52    63             143    7709    6.32    919   30.76   130.1O   122.9   331          14357
-S_                           4.2  Ut6 ISJ2             3.St IL.30        99S    9.32      9.0     999   10.19   IO.9    I0         13.13    346    333    32.6    3Ms          20    339       33       14.10
-unarodwwIlloull              60       6.30     6.67    6.6      6.67    6.3      7.37     7.60    79  S£S           8L49    3.73     9922    9A2      9 S6  9.91    30is    30A.    10.73    11/2    33.32
-pbowdi0                      am 3I      3      3.23    2.37     2.      2.3      20D    2.9D      2920 2.          2.W      2.9     2.3      2J       290    230    2i3        26       2.9      292     235.
-DawMw                        4D0    4.50       43      4.3      526     423      43       42      4.21     42      42       42       4M      42       42      42       4.      4.       42       41      4
-Vi     Sm                    0.00I    0. O0   OJ    0.00        0.0     096      3.2      1.72    1.22     3.72     1.72    1.72    1.22     3.22     1.2      1.72    1.2      1.72    1.72     1.22    L72
-cu33mdf                      0.0      0.0)    0.0       . OA.   0.00    ODD      1.15     .3S     1.24     I21      3.4     3.9      399     3.9      3.9     1.6      1.9      3.69    36       1.9    3L
-TQb     l                    GIGO     0.66    090D    0.9       D3      055      0.95 0os   5     0.f      095     0.9s     0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95     0s5      05a oss      oss 055      05      0.
-LmdlF                        0.O      .I5      .24     LZ.      1.A     29m      2S4      2.34    294      294      2.34    294      224     2.94     2.4     14       234      2.4     24       234     294
-D                            QaMdWblh   090  0.00 .D am  0G00   003   0a         a94      0.94     .2    l3s        3.77    3.77     3.71    3.77     3.77    3.77    3.77    3.77      3.77     3.27    3.7
-DMZW                          eo0     3m       3.54    356      39      O.s2     l.36     204     2.04     2.04    204      2.04    2.0      20       204     2.04     2A4     2A.      204      2.0     2.
-1.ilg=Wdm3md                 0.co     0.76    o0s      OS9      0s7      1.12    123      242     242      2.42    242      242      242     2A2      2.42    242      242     2A2      2.2      2A2     2A2
-S ubLI        4u.)           090    0O.D      0.00     OA.      0.00    0.59     OAS6    1.        .19 1    .39     1.39    1.19     .39     3.39     1.19    3.39     3.9      3.1 9.39         3.19    1.39
-3uz3gu(1So )                 090      090     090      0.o       00     090      090      0.00    0.00     0.00     2.32    2.12    2.32     2.12    2.12    2.2       212     2.32     2.12     2.2     2.2
-.00    090o    0.co      000     0.00     09o     O.O    0.o       0.00    0O.      750     70    10.50D   30.5D    10.5       050    t 10.50    105    1.5    lo-5    10.50 
-adl=                         090      0.0     0.00     0.0C     000    0Gm 0G GO                  OM       0.00    090      0.00    0.00     0.OOD    o.0o    O.00    o0D    0.00    o00         OO     0M
:~                            17.S    2532    3595    30L.2    30.7    2999    34s9    3746    399          39.6I    s2G2    52.79    5.0    57.3    57.n2    532   5s39    59.66    6036    631M   6a32
_-                             0.26     0.17     0Om     OC.0     0.00    0.24     0.6      0.64    OS       0.2    I3 .      3.35     399       XZ     3.37    3.5      3.54     33      1.23    S3       1.94
CaX.36=tOAhlMD=               -204    -0.11   -11A5    -7.0    -3.        -65
3Tr           mW               64M     74.14    75.74    71.0    379      9596  13.07   32.52   3289    337.26   1594   169.21   113.43 3959   2CUB   2?133   237.30   Z                2719    2M0.6   331.S5
Ai         o_m     Om           4A3     0.44    0.6      04       0.45    0.63     0       0.72    0.          3 0.  s 0.97   8.0      .33     3m       1.27    335      3A.S     I.S     L         l3.75    3s
TX. *a 321.3.      S          20.90    2.30    21.60    2190    21.30    2490   I3S.50    3S85D   I3SO    17.2    372D    172         17.22    17.22    1722    122    37.22    17.      17.2D    372D    17.20
Lo)Om           37.32    2299    2D99      3.33    25.36    29.3    24s.9s    257    2.o0    269    33.2i    3537    3335    4099    45.50    440          57    52.99    s6.73    60.75    65.t3
G    _         (MM)           I390    9490    97.22   3o9D   IU3.7   319.40     1353   14306    359.30   166.63   39295   2S.43   mn.7    237.6   22.    269.SD   23796   307.76   329.    352.33   31U7
G=MbwftlMvw&a   =3 W59                           2.S      3.9    32.6      5.0    32.7    30.3       7.0      4.7    S5.7      6.5     84       6.4     6.       6.7      6.      6.9      7.0     7.1      7.2
3adoF d) 5                     67.3    62.6    667       6"6      63.9    67.3    62.      6.7    62.7    629        65.4    65.2    653       65.6    65A      65.2    65.1    65.o      6u      6"6      6L5
AP3 3993



n"V
BOEtVtMECT
LEt  5TYUPPLY CO_USON OF nAW
WlERCOON0CTEI  S07E70  SUES% PMX OEBAND, OEIltAON
Am     o,AMTL99W PSOJCwm
l!0       9m      1597     1t#t      t9       t9l9     111       I92     191       194       OM      190      1997      1998      19i9    2CO     2990       2D02     OM2        0        e
CO9MX92R2mg
"LODa30m                      t23410D  13C2 0   04259.900  15443.00  1=. 00  1075.00 19 00  2146000 22079.00 24000 297.00 2907.00  901t7.00 33128.00  2513.00 299.00 41155.00  4420   4750.00  51127.0  5401.00
eighODml                      12200Q0 12771000D  t990   13144.0O  13009.00 13975.00 14947.00 16000.0  17072.00 10204.00  19441.00 207200 21273.0o  23679.00 99999.00 2700.00 29D41.00 200D.00  3522.00 25127.00 27514.00
LoOeMOy                        4500.00  4614.00  4527.00  4WOD  4097.00  4E26.00  44s2.00  4338.00  4270.00  4242.00  4222.00   4202.00  4181.00  4100.O0   4139.00  4117.00  409.00   407500  4054.00  4039.00  4013.00
tft1pDawb                       7040    c0z20 oo      0    1034.00  109A.0   1159n00   1177.00  111.00  1210.00  12.00   1242.OD  1957.0   1272OO   1290.00  I304.00  1320.00  1336.00  1252o0    120s.00   I           14.0    140.00
LOWDOS                           5556    01.02    045    n.16    7106    es.s0    69.09 09  0               0.535    105.232   12.5    120.47   12e5s   137.01    147.39   157.13   169.50    1oD2.9   192.2   221    2.04
tggD"wEV                        11.0      12.55    IZ49   1*30        14.94    15.75    17.59    10.06    20.44    21.90    23.50    29.19    2002    2B65    2060         32.     34.92    37.20    29.5      42.57    4547
tt                 9e 059    92.02    027    74.0    000                       09.03   100.10    1402    115.24   124.43   134.92   144.56   1w.34    1732B    190.47   2t01   22.00   24z7    26387   297.0N   312.23
s2p      .                     1X500    U43 44       6149    I5.03    177.3   204.54   210.00    2.5z7   277.47    03M31    33357  23.03   401.04   4055   490.12   524.92   m.71             z201   6B4.90    740.21    017.40
_swmw                          40.34    47.590     4.72    0z45    51.67    4792    4Q42    49.93    49.45    50.01    50.57    51.14    01.74    52.35    5290    s63    54.30               499    55.70    56.43    57.19
- mm" wa9w  dt                 4502    4.74    sost   s542    s71   5s72    64.94    67.25    CS.14    71.60    74.23    77.10    e0.60    83.76    97.15    91.07    95.90   101.10   10.07   11022   115.04 
-Pml90dcmI9                     920    It.30    n1.10    11.44    1229        1210    13.10    13.41    132.4    1390E    14.00    14.25    14.50    14.70    1.90    15.09         S.27    15.44    15.60    15.74    15.00
-OZsWm _usO                   24204    27.10   2z.6e    29.50    31.70    9943    25.43          2s43    2.43   2z.43    25.43    2s.43    2543    99.43    25.43    25.43    25.43    25943            .43    25.43 z24. zs
-vofta Er.fia                   QQ0       0.00     0.0      0.00     0.00      4.52     7.45     9.03      9.03     90       9.03     9.03     9.03      9.09     0.03     9.03     9.03      E03      s.03     9.03     109
-C taIAW                        0.00      0.oo     0OD      0.00     0.00    0n00       3O       6.0       6.54     h.73     7.eO     0.87     (0.0      a0       0.07     8.07     0.07    0E.7       07       0.7      0.87
-TODOWR         .               0.00      la7      3.50     4.17     4.14      4.1      447      4.17      4.17     4.17     4.17     4.17     4.17      4.17     4.17     4.17     4.47      4.17     4.17     4.17     4.17
-gbWb W                         o.o0      6.00     654      6.73     7eo      4064    14.00    14.90    14.00    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.0        14.50    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.90    14.00    14.00      14.60
-    o    a _01m t12)           0.0o      noo      0.00     0.00     no.       0.00     2.0      5.00     5.69      969    14.39    11.39    11.3 9    11.29    11.29    11.99    11.30    11.39    11.39    11.32    11.39
-0asC1 0                        0.00      447    s0e        5.45     035    32.2        4.7      7.17      7.17     7.17     7.17     7.17     7.17      7.17     7.17     7.17     7.17      7.17     7.17     7.17     7.17
-UktegwWa,Wd                    0.0o      5.07     069      0.91     047       7.45     0.00    1.2       10.12    10.12    16.12    10.12    16.12    16.12    10.12    16.12    I1h2       16.12    0L.12    10.12    I0.12
-SXbMS(t03W 9Q  0.00  000                          000      o.0      o.oo      2.45     26.      4.9       4.09     4.09     4.0      4.e9        s .9   4.0      4.009    4.0      4.09     4.s       4.09     4.00     4.
-k0p"Oft"                       0.00    0Q00        O0      000      0.0o      0.00     0.00     0.00     o.o       000      0.00     0.0oo    O.0O      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     o.oo      o.oo     0.00     o.oo
-vw5 oe                         0.00      ooo0    0.00      0.0      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.oo     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.o       0.00    0.00     0..o      0.00     o.0o
-o2w                            o.0 0o00           000      000      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    O.       o.00     O.OD
S9 D-b                         1923.00   15127   17720   180.09   175.22   171.69   199.87   233.05   2230.        229.0   239.09   244.50   24e9.    252.79   257.00   201.76   207.02   273.50   27.4   204.35   990.09
emI                              1.09     071 0o00           00       0.00     0.Q  n    2.6      2.61     2.01      2.90     4.47     4.73     5.02     5.32      5.64     s.93     6.34     072       7.12     7.55     B0.0
T90ISa       (0W1              40973   4350   47Z40   404.50   520.90   0s76    62D.00  600.4    740.6    797.0   04a93   907.47   989.96  1023.79  1109.22  1187.99  1274.07   130729   1487.45  057003  1092.7
A0y CaIu_lU  (0W74               2.44      Z50      262      z49      2.9       3.45     3.60     4.0s      4.33     456      4.91     5.20     5.601      .99     641      6.67     7.30     7.90     0.48      s.1      9.79
ft a        t   Lg 00           1MO       10.10    10.      10.0      10.70    14.00     4.00    14.00    13.00    13.00    13.00    1200    13.00    13.00    1OO    13.00    12.00    1.OO    1200    l200             12.O
Lawn         (OW1               70.2      MP0      a3   101.         10724    131.60   1t499    11435    421.92   1192B   127.59   13.09   146.70   155.2    166071   17.54    1l9.40   20c40   220.54   23563   2E4s6
Oumabd        (0w5)            40229   519.67   557.60   510780  3070S   7920          7an7   e162   0.29   910.34   981.43  1049.42  1122.35  119660   *22z34  1373.40  1472.91  1000.00   109s40    023.02  I033
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



IMAJLW1
P9W9R V >FROEC
ELECiRtCIYSUPPLYODMlMMlS510N OF MAIAWI
ZIWERONNECrEDSYMS   SAlES. PEAK DEWAND. GOlEA71T8ON
AC8UAL IBS49) AND PRO3ECI
Lav4OMSCMSH
39S5     19S5      9197     19-8    19S9       3990      J993      1992     3993      1994     1995      1996     1997      199      1999                          2002                    225
LowD   sy                          7.73     8.56      8.99     9.91     11.02    21.11    21.64    22.61    23.93    25.56    27.35    29.26    31.30    33.47    35.80    38.29    40.95    43.79    46.83    50.09    53.57
Ni3b Dmdiy                         1.90     2.02      2.01     2.19      2.40     529       5.91      6.37     6.6       7.37     7.89      8.43     9.G0      9.62     10.27    10.9S     1.72    12.52      13.38    34.29    15.
Gaj                               35.33    12.64    13.92      15.27    16.41     14.62    16.32     17.62    I8.79    20.29    22.00    23.90    25.98    28.26    30.74    33.43    36.37    39. 6    43.03    46.81    50.92
Szu1 1vow                         27.4A    25.54    26.32    27.54    31.11    25.38    27.27    31.34    34.43    37.63    41.39    45.42    49.76    54.47    59.57    65.13    71.19    77.79    84.99    92.85   101.43
cwPowe
-Sm                              4.92      8.S6     18.21    11.52    11.10      9.05      9.32     9.60      9.89     10.19    10.49    10.81     11.13    11.46    11.8l    12.16    12.53    12.90        13.29    13.69    14.10
-   mym WgrBod                   6.30      6.30     6.67      6.67      6.67     6.87      7.37     7.60      7.82     8.09      8.49     8.73      9.22      9.42     9.66      9.91    10.18    10.45    10.73    11.02    11.32
-Poiad M                         1.63      3.81      1.73     2.37      2.52     2.63      2.80     2.0       2.80     2.80      2.80     2.80      2.80     2.80      2.80     2.80      2.83      2.86     2.89     2.92      2.95
-        hDavidW8c8d             4.80      4.50     4.91      488       5.26     4.21      4.21     4.21      4.21     4.21      4.21     4.21      4.21     4.21      4.21     4.21      4.21      4.21     4.21      4.28     4.21
-Vsp5b sawim                     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.M      0.C0     0.86      3.42      1.72     8.72      3.72     3.72      3.72     1.72      3.72     1.72      1.72     1.72      1.72     3.72      1.72     1.72
-CGnl LA:                        0.00      0.0D    0.0D    0.00         0.00     0.00      1.14      1.15     1.24      1.28     1.48      1.69     1.69      1.69     8.69      1.69     1.69      1.69     1.69      3.69     1.69
- Tom   PImT                     0.00      0.66     08O0      0.95     0.94      0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95      0.95     0.95
_Lb LdF                          0.0D      1.135    1.24      1.28      1.48     2.03      2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.4      2.84      2.84     2.S4      2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.84     2.84      2.84
-3Id W86e:SaInu)                 0.00      0.G0     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.0D      0.94     0.94      0.94     0.94      I.8       3.88    8.88      36.88   3S.88               3.8      3I.8      3.88      I.8     I88
-DIUISCO                         0.00D     3         1.54     1.56      1.53     0.92      1.36     2.04      2.04     2.04      2.04     2.04      2.04      2.04     2.04      2.04     2.04      2.04     2.04      2.04     2.04
- L0imc  Wo Dmzd                0.00      0.76     0.5       0.89      0.97     1.12      1.21     2.42      2.42     2.42      2.42     2.42      2.42     2.42      2.42      2.42     2.42      2A2      2A2       2.42     242
-sum    ix k     (Laws)0.0D              0.G0      0.00      0.00     0.59      0.59     0.65      1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19     1.19      1.19
- rIpn ,(m18l4)                  0.G0      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.12     2.12      2.12      2.82     2.32      2.12     2.12      2.12     2.12      2.12     2.12     1
-VuW   R0.00                               0.00    0.00      O.0D      0.00     0.00      0.00      .0       0.00     0.00      7.50     7.50    10.3       10.50    10.50    10.50    10.50    10.50    10.50    10.50    10.50    ,
-                                0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      00       0.0       0.00     00        0.00     0.00      0.0D     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0     C
Sub-anI                           17.65    25.32    35.95    3D.12    33.06    29.23       34.22    37.47    38.06    38.67    40.52    41.23    42.09    42.63    43.21    43.81    44.48    45.16    45.86    46.57    47.31
Exon                              0.26      0.17      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.24      0.61     0.64      0.68      o.n      1.3.0     3.85     1.22      1.29     1.37      1.45     1.54      8.63      J.73     I .3     3.94
*tCDNEC7NED SY5113t
C ord e Ok Dmd    (W)             -2.04    -0.33    - 3IAS    -7.60    -3.53    -6.65
TgI            (MW)               64.24    74.14    75.74     77A3    83.47    89.22    105.97    116.05    122.75   330.24 140.23   149.44    159.35    169.74   180.96   193.09   206.25   220.45    235.82   252.44   270A4
AmihiC-==4           (3W)         0.43      OA4       0.46     0.44      0.45     0.61      0.65     0.72      0.76     0.80      0.86     0.92      0.98      1.05     1.13      1.21     1.29      J.39     1.49      1.60     1.72
T,.&Dmbo.            S           2D.90    21.30    21.60    2290    22.30    2A.          IS3.59    18.50    18.50    17.20    17.20    17.20    17.20       17.20    17.20    17.20    17.20    E7.20    *7.20    17.20    17.20
L               Om(W)             17.82    20.22    20.9      23.13    25.36    29.58      24.24    2655    280.90    27.23    29.32    31.24    33.32    35A9    37.83    4D.37    46.09    46.89    49.31    52.78    56.55
CI3od            Om4W)           8.80    94.80    97.20    803.00    333.70    119.40    130.73   143.17   151.47   158.14   170.27   188.44    193.49    206.89   219.73   234.46   25044   267.69   26.36   306.55   328.40
Gwwtbmlsn  =.A-AS                           5SS        2.5      3.9      12.6      5.0       9.5      9.5       9.5      4.4       7.7      6.6       6.6       6.5      6.6      6.7       6.9      6.9       7.0      7.8       7.1
Lmd Ew   (sQcu241 S               67.3      62.6      66.7     66.6      63.9     67.3      64.2     65.1      65.3     65.7      63S      66.0      66.2     66.4      66.6     66.9      67.1      67.4     67.6     67.8      68.I
., . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I



- 59 -
MALAWI                                            ANNEX3.4
ENERGY II PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
Generation and Caracity Balance
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1999     2000
Firm Energy of
Existing System, GWhl1     860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0    860.0
Planned Additions
Nkula B 6                   0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Tedzani III                                                     66.0     66.0      66.0     66.0     66.0      66.0
Kapichira I                                                                                403.0    403.0    403.0
Kapichira II                                                                                        126.0    125.0
Total Firm Energy           860.0    860.0    880.0    860.0    926.0    926.0    926.0   1329.0   1464.0   1464.0
Generation requirement
BaseCase                  732.8    814.1    866.8    911.2    977.2   1051.5   1124.8   1203.4   1288.6   1381.3
High Case                 735.0    817.0    873.6    917.8   1105.4   1174.0   1283.8   1362.4   1447.6   1640.3
Low Case                  738.6    816.8    866.3    910.4    981.4   1049.4   1121.4   1198.6   1282.4   1373.4
Energy Balance
Base Case                 127.5     45.9     -8.8    -61.2    -51.2   -126.6   -198.8    125.6    165.4        72.7
High Case                 124.4     43.0    -13.6    -57.8   -179.4   -248.0   -367.8    -33.4        6.4    -86.3
Low Case                  124.4     43.2     -6.3    -50.4    -55.4   -123.4   -195.3    130...    171.6       80.6
Dependable Capacity of:
Existing System, MW/2      136.0    136.0    136.0    131.0    131.0    131-0    131.0    131.0    131.0    131.0
Planned Additions
Nkula B 6                           20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0
Tedzani III                                            45.0     45.0     46.0      46.0     45.0      46.0     45.0
Kapichira 1                                                                        26.0     50.0     50.0      60.0
Kapichira 11                                                                                         25.0      25.0
Total Dependable Cap.       136.0    156.0    166.0    198.0    198.0    196.0    221.0    246.0    271.0    271.0
Maximum Demand, MW
Base Case                 134.6    148.7    157.9    195.5    178.9    191.4    205.1    219.4    235.0    251.9
High Case                 134.6    148.7    169.1    168.6    192.9    205.4    222.7    237.1    262.6    269.5
Low Case                  130.7    143.2    151.5    158.1    170.3    181.4    193.5    206.1    219.7    234.5
Capacity Balance
Base Case                   1.5      7.3     -1.9      30.5     17.2      4.6      15.9     26.6     36.0      19.2
High Case                   1.6      7.3     -3.1      29.4      3.2     -9.4      -1.7      8.9     18.4       1.6
Low Case                    6.3     12.8      4.6      37.9     26.7     14.6      27.6     39.9     61.3      36.5
Plant factor (available GWhlinstalled MWx.92x8.76)
Available GWh             860.0                                928.0                               1454.0
kIstalled MW              144.0                                194.0                                317.0
Plant Factor                0.7                                  0.6                                  0.°
1/ Based on minimum flow of 136 m3ls/c and 02% availability, Nkula power plants
(head 37m) generate 366GWh; Tecizani existing plants (head 60m) gonerate 494GWh.
Assuming discharges of 77 m3lsea for each turbine Tedzani III will provide additlonal
66 GWh. Assuming 52 m3/sec for each Kapichira unit Phase I will provlde 4036 Wh,
and Phase il 126GWh.
21 Allowing biggest unit In system as reserve. The gas turbine (12MWI) Is considered
available for capacity purposes.



- 60 -
AMNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 10
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. DescriRtion of Kapichira Hydroelectric Scheme
Location of the Pawer Scheme
1.    The Kapichira hydroelectric power plant is located in the Shire river and
is shown on IBRD Map No. 23398.   A summary description of the power scheme,
including its associated features, is given in Chapter IV.  A more detailed
outline of Kapichira and of the other features of Power V project is given
hereunder.
Background
2.    Malawi generates over 99% of its power needs from hydro power.  A total of
144MW has been developed in a cascade group of power plants on the Shire river
at Nkula and Tedzani in four phases since 1966. An additional 20MW is being
installed at the existing Nkula B power station and is expected to be
commissioned early in 1992.
3.    The further development of hydro power to meet the growing demand of
Malawi's interconnected system was analyzed during the period (1984 - 1988). The
river basins considered included Songwe, South Rukuru, Bua, Rua and Shire. Only
the Shire river projects  (namely Kholombidzo, Tedzani III, Mpatamanga and
Kapichira) were retained for detailed studies on the basis of hydrology and
preliminary layouts. ESCOM's Least Cost Power Development Plan, prepared for the
Government in 1987/88, determined Tedzani III followed by Kapichira to be the
least cost option to meet Malawi's power needs for the period 1994-2005.
4.    The ongoing Energy I project includes the third stage of Tedzani Falls and
forms the fourth phase of power development on the Shire river. Tedzani III, due
for commissioning in 1994, will increase the installed capacity on the Shire
river by 50MW to 214MW. The proposed Power V project includes the first phase
of the 5x25MW Kapichira hydroelectric scheme, with 2 units expected to be
commissioned by 1997 (Phase I of Kapichira), and the remaining three units (Phase
II of Kapichira, not included in Power V project) by 1999.   The installed
capacity on the Shire river will increase to 264MW by 1977 and to 339MW by 1999
(over 57% of the potential of the Shire river).
Topographv
5.    The selected site near Kapichira Falls enables the construction of a
barrage of 20-25 meters maximum height upstream of the falls, developing a head
of about 60 meters.   The most economical minimum controlled pool level is
determined to be elevation 144.6 and the maximum 147.0. The selected site is



- 61 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 10
well suited for the construction of a low spillway on the left bank with minimum
concrete requirements. The favorable topography has led to the selection of the
left bank for all concrete works, spillway, water conductors and power house.
The layout and design of the spillwyay is such that no major sedimentation
problems are expected at Kapichira; however, the need exists to analyze the
possible impact of sedimentation (Annex 4.1, para 9).
GeoloRv
6.    The  geology  at  the  site  has  been  investigated  both  by  surface
reconnaissance and subsurface exploration. Foundation conditions revealed by the
subsurface investigations indicate that the overburden materials (ranging from
1 to 1.50 meters in thickness) are composed of three recent alluvial terrace
deposits and thick residual materials (soil and weathered rock). The bedrock
underlying the residual materials is metamorphic and of Precambrian to lower
Paleozoic origin. The sound rock which is expected to be encountered below the
residual materials is considered suitable to support the earth/rockfill dam or
concrete structures.
HydroloR.
7.    All power plants on the Shire river are provided with daily regulation
reservoirs and depend on the upstream Lake Malawi (the Lake) for their annual and
longer term regulation.   The lake free water level of the Lake has varied
considerably in the past, falling to almost zero between 1890 and 1910 and
increasing steadily since then. During the last few decades the Lake's outflow
to the Shire river has averaged 650 cubic meters per second (cumecs). Kamuzu
(Liwonde) barrage, constructed at the outlet of the Lake in 1965, regulates the
floy to a minimum of 175 cumecs. Analyses carried out recently (Update ESCOM's
Least Cost Development Study. April 1988, Kennedy & Donkin in association with
WLPU) indicate that in the event of a return to the very dry conditions
experienced in the early years of the century, there could be risks of major
energy deficits. Based on a computer simulation model replicating historical
records of the Lake, risks could occur at any time from the mid-1990s and last
for over 5 years with energy deficits of up to 90X of total demand. Measures
considered to safeguard against a recurrence of very low flows included
construction of a thermal plant to substitute the hydro capacity, interconnection
with neighboring countries, and dredging of the upper Shire channel. The likely
and least cost option, requiring also the minimum time to implement, ls
determined to be dredging, to be acted upon when the level of the Lake reaches
an already defined predetermined trigger level. A gauging station is In place
at Mangochi to facilitate this monitoring.
8.    Monthly and annual flows, minimum flows available for power generation,
extreme floods and flood frequencies have been analyzed by TAMS under Phase I
Study (November 1984).  Under Phase II Study (February 1986), TAhS developed
additional parameters, in particular flood magnitudes for higher frequency floodo
including those appropriate for diversion design. Recently obtained flood marks
enabled the delineation of tailwater levels for various discharges.   Wator
surface profiles along the river and hence water surface of interest to the



- 62 -
ANEX 4.1
Page 3 of 10
design  of various  structures  were  determined.    Aerial  photographs  and
photogrametric and ground survey& have been used in the evaluations by TANS.
TAMS has adopted the maximum probable flood of 8900 cumace as the spillway design
flood which has also been used to set the flood protection level for the power
house. The annual flood at the Kapichira site is estimated to be 1000 cumecs and
the 100 year flood at 3750 cumecs. The impact of irrigation requirements, under
consideration by Government, to be extracted upstream of Kapichira will be
assessed by the engineering services consultant.
Pondaae
9.   The Kapichira scheme will be a run-of-river plant with no seasonal storage
and pondage will be required only to satisfy the daily peak demand.  The daily
load demand, as assessed by TAMS from ESCOI's load duration curve currently
available, exceeded 90Z of the maximum capacity for approximately 8 to 10 hours.
(TAMS has Indicated that this could change in the future.   TAMS has also
indicated the need to analyze the effect of sedimentation on pondage.   The
engineering services consultant will review and optimize the conceptual design
of the project, para 18 below). The Kapichira reservoir has been designed to
allow the operation of all 5 units at full load for a continuous period of 10
hours. For a continuous flow of 170 cumecs, the volume of water available for
generation equals approximately 3.5 million cumecs with allowance for siltation.
For this flow the minimum and corresponding maximum pool levels which will
provide this volume are given in the table which follows, with the levele in
brackets giving the selected levelo.
Mhnitm  Pool, Cl)                    Maximum Pool f
137.0                               143.3
143.3                               146.3
147.5                               149.3
151.0                               152.3
(144.6)                             (147.0)
10.   For each of the above alternatives, the firm power available has been
determined for a flrm flow of 136 cumeco (982 reliability) and a load factor of
0.65. The table below ohows the firm power corresponding to the installation of
4 units for each altornative.
Min.        Tailwater  Gross        Read         Net         Firm
Pool          (i)       Read        Losses       gead        Power
1M)                     (M)          (mn)       (t)          (MR#)
151.0       85.2        65.8        2.5          63.3        112.6
147.5       85.2        62.3        2.5          59.8        106.4
143.3       85*2        58.1        2.5          55.6         98.9
137.0       85.2        51.8        2.5          49.3         87.7
11.  It may thus be inferred that tho fElm powor of Rapiohira scheme is about
100W'. The rationale for the firm flow of 136 oumece established by TAMS will



- 63 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 10
be subject of further deliberation in connection with the optimization study on
the technical features of Rapichira (para 18).
K&gichira Scheme
12.   The main features of Kapichira hydroelectric scheme are an 800m long
earthfill (llm) and composite earth-rockfill (26m) dam, a gated spillway, canal
intake, power canal, power intake, steel penstock, power house, tailrace
canal,switchyard, an access road from Chikawa to Kapichira, camp (dwelling,
canteen, offices) facilities at Kapichira, transmission line to Tedzani
switchyard, and additional supervisory system control and data acquisition
(SCADA) provision and power line carrier system (PLC).   Main data for the
proposed power scheme are as follows:
13.   The Power House.  The Kapichira power house will be designed to house five
25MW vertical axis generating units, with two units to be installed by 1997, as
part of Phase I of Kapichira, and the remaining three units by '999 as part of
Phase II.   Three of the 5x25MW turbine generating units,  including their
encasement, three of the 5 intake gates, the second penstock (except for the
excavation, which should be done in Phase I), and one feeder and 3 generating
bays at Kapichira switchyard will constitute Phase II of Kapichira and are not
included in the Power V Project.
14.   The vertical axis turbine will be of the Francis type, and will be able to
deliver 25.7MW, corresponding to a generator output of 25MW under either of the
following conditions:
--    power pool at its minimum controlled level (144.6 m) and tailwater
level corresponding to the required flow from the five turbinee with
no spillway flow; or
-     power pool at its maximum controlled level (147.0 m) and tailwater
level corresponding to a total river flow of 900 cumecs.
15.   The turbine will thus be rated to deliver 25.7MW under a rated net head of
55.9m as dictated by the second severe condition, with a corresponding flow of
52 cumecs per unit. The design head of 59.6m was calculated with the turbine
operating under average head conditions, i.e. a river flow of 321 cumecs, power
pool at its maximum level (147.0m) and the turbines at their best efficiency
point. This latter corresponds to a discharge of 41 cumeces (about 80 percent
guide vane opening). At full guide vane opening, under the design head of 59.6m,
each turbine will provide 28.9MW. A speed of 250 rpm was therofore chosen giving
a specific speed under the stated conditions of 257 (Kw;m). The corresponding
plant sigma is estimated to be 0.188, which is in the non-prone cavitation zone,
according to the standards established by the Bureau of Reclamations (Engineering
Monograph No. 2, Selecting Hydraulic Reaction Turbines).
16.   The vertical axis eynchronous generators will be directly coupled to the
turbines  rotating at 250 rpm.   The turbine will be capable of 27.8MM.
Consequently the generators will be rated 27MW, 0.9 pf, 30MNA. In order to limit



- 64 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 10
the speed during load rejections to 45% of the nominal speed while maintaining
a guide vane closing time of 7 secs and to limit the pressure to 30%, the
generator motor will be required to have an inertia of not less than 1280 tm2,
corresponding to an inertia constant of 3.66KWs/kVA.
17.   Transmission and Switch_ard.    Tedzani  III Scheme provides  for the
installation of 132kV and 66kV transmission lines and bays at Nkula B power
station and at Blantyre West Substation. Phase I of the Kapichira hydroelectric
scheme will provide the following:
Mi)      Rapichira Switchyard.  Comprising a 132kV double design with
both busbars constructed to accommodate the ultimate ten
circuit arrangement.   Switchbays will be equipped for two
generator circuits with the generator transformers in the
switchyard, three feeder bays with circuit breaker on load by
pass   facilities   and   one   bus         coupler.   Remote
control/synchronizing facilities will be provided at this
stage to cover the arrangenant for Phase II of Kapichira.
Equipment for electrical protection, metering, a.c/d.c.
auxiliary power suppliee, llkV cabling, earthling, lighting,
multicore cabling, etc. will also be included.
(ii)      Tedzani III Switchyard.  The 132kV double switclhyard will ba
extended by one feeder bay suitable to terminate the single
circuit line from Kapichira. The circuit will be fitted with
on-load by-pass facilities and control, protection ,
synchronizing, instrumentation and will match the existing
equipment.
(111)      Tranamission Linea.  Kapichira will be connected to Tedzani
III via a 58km, 132kV single circuit transmission line, steel
tower construction with AAAC 175 mm2 conductor. The existing
132kV Blantyre West - Nkula line will be broken at Rapichira
and the two ends diverted into the Kapichira Switchyard.
(iv)      SCADA Syatem Extension.  The existing system will be extended
to Include Kapichira with similar facilities to those at
exicting outetations. Since it is likely that the original
design of SCADA equipment will be outdated and will not be
available for the extension, it is proposed to use a new type
of outstation , upgrading as necessary the existing generation
control center microcomputer at Nkula and interface the
telemetry software to the existing systems.
(v)      PLC and Telephone SYstema.   Single channel links will be
established between Kapichira and Tedzani III. Kapiciiira and
Nehalo, and Kapichira - Blantyre West. Use would be made of
the existing equipment between Nchalo and Blantyre West.  A
new PAX telephone system will be installed at Kapichira.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 6 of 10
18.   Engineering Services.  The Rapichlra scheme includes engineering services
to plan and supervise the construction of the power scheme. An estimated 1200
man months of services would be required. The terms of reference calls for the
following main services:
Stage 1: (i) reviewing existing studies on the project and carrying out
investigations as needed covering the hydrology, geology, topography and
the layout of Kapichira with the objective of optimizing the conceptual
design of the hydro-electric scheme; and (ii) preparing a Project
Conception Report, summarizing findings and preparing basic layout and
design drawings; (iII) a review by a panel of experts of the Project
Conception Report and provision for advice on problems of technical nature
during construction.
Stage 2: (i) prequalifying contractors for the scheme; (ii) preparing
final design and bid documents.
Stage 3: (ii) evaluating tenders and assistUing in contract negotiatione;
(ii)    supervising  the  civil works;  the  manufacture,  testing  and
commissioning of plant and equipment.
B. Generation Rehabilitation
19.   Tedzani.  Tedzani Stage I machines have been in operation for 17 years and
Stage II for 14 years. The high sand/silt suspension in the Shire river has
caused erosion of runner liners. guide vane bushings and seal sleeves. This has
resulted in detachment of rubber seals with consequential damage on runner bladee
and runner skirts. There is also leakage in the main inlet valves. A major
rehabilitation work would thus be needed on Tedzani units which would require
successive shutdown of the units for a period totalling 9 months. In view of the
capacity shortage, the rehabilitation work will commence in 1994/95, soon after
commissioning of Tedzani III. Works to be carried out includes replacement of
rubber seals for machines I and II (Stage I) as well as replacement of guide
vanes, guide vane bushes, sleeves, teflon materials, liners etc.; for Stages I
and II replacement of the turbine and the governor oil heat exchanger systems for
all 4 machines. The turbine and generator bearings, the electronic governor and
excitation of both Stages I and II require spares. Tedzani'a Generation Control
Center also requires spares.
20.   Nkula. Nkula A power station has been in service for nearly 25 years, and
Nkula B for just over 10 years.  Nkula headpond is not provtded with coarse
screens. The floating islands of vegetation which resulted from the 1991 flood
completely blocked the Nkula A intake screens. The headpond water level had to
bo drawn down by about 5 motero reoulting in tho oovoro rootriction of tho output
of Nkula B power station (adjacent to Nkula A); thio restriction was aggravated
with the accumalated silt deposits immediately upstream of the barrage.   In
addition ESCOM had carried out testo on Nkula A station to assess, among others,
head loesee In the water conductors. The teots established that the losses were
excessivo. The reason for this was confirmed during the physical inspection of



- 66 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 10
the water conductors in March 1991. which showed their deterioration through the
formation of a slime layer, damaged concrete surface, bacteriological corrosion
in the penstock as well as substantial siltation in the tunnel. Major works,
including major maintenance of the water conductors, would be carried out in the
Nkula intakes through provision of course screens at Nkula B and extension of
Nkula A intake structures. Expert services would be needed to assess: (i) the
current siltation situation and the problem of the trash flow at Nkula B, and
determine, through hydraulic modelling or otherwise, measures needed to minimize
the impact of siltation; (ii) design the extension of Nkula intake structures;
and (iii) evaluate the condition of the tunnel and penstocks and specify measures
for their solution.  The scope of work at Nkula stations vould also include
maintenance and remedial works as well as painting work for the radial gates and
trash rakes of Nkula B. The maintenance would involve replacing radial gate
seals, flexible couplings and radial gate position transmitter units.
21.   Generation Spares.  Essential spares will be needed for the main inlet
valves, cooling systems, generator and turbine bearings, bushes and seals and
other consumable spares which may be needed for the proper operation of the hydro
plants. Spare parts will also be needed for Lilongwe and Mzuzu standby dieel
power plants as well as for the gas turbine in Blantyre. The project makes a
contingent provision for procurement of spares and for technical auditing to
assess ESCOM's requirements.
C. Transmission Reinforcement
22.   The capital city of Lilongwe and the outer reaches of the Northern Region
are presently supplied from Salima substation via: (i) a 75km 132kV impregnated
wooden pole transmission line to Lilongwe; and (ii) a 265km 66kV impregnated
wooden pole transmission line to Chinteche designed and constructed for operation
at 132kV. The impregnated wooden poles are in poor condition due to termite
attack and are the main causes of interruptions of power supply to the whole
Northern Region (para 2.31). Changing the wooden poles and cross arms by steel
structures will substantially improve the reliability of power supply to the
capital city of Lilongwe and to other parts of the Northern Region. The Project
provides for the acquisition and installation of tubular steel poles and steel
cross arms as well conductors and disc insulators to construct a line parallel
to the existing and to gradually replace the existing line.
23.   The specific provisions are: (i) acquisition oft 2500 about 14.4 m long
tubular steel poles for straight line tension suspension structures (two poles
per structure) complete with cross arms. number plates and associated
accessories; 152 about 14.4m long poles for angle steel structures (up to 60
degrees) and cross arms; 262 about 13.9 m long   poles for straight line
suspension structures and cross arms; 12 vertical poles about 12.3 m length for
4 terminal structures; about 860km of Mulberry conductor and 560km galvanized
earth wirel  disc insulators for the initial 5-10km of the line (subsequent
requirements will be transferred from the existing line); and (ii) lnstallation
of the 265km Salima to Chinteche portion of the line by a contractorg
installation of the Salima to Lilongwe portion of the line by ESCOM's own force,
after recovery of the conductor material from the Chinteche portion of the line



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 8 of 10
and after completion of the second 1321cV line to Lilongwe.
24.   The subtransmission and distribution systems in Lilongwe are growing with
the increase in demand. A control building will be constructed in Lilongwe and
equipment will be installed to: (i) minimize the duration and reduce the impact
of interruptions as well as improve system performance through the introduction
of remote control of essential ciruit breakers; and (ii) introduce data
collection, storage and retrieval system.
D. Distribution
25.   Distribution reinforcement will be undertaken in the northern, central and
southern regions of ESCOM, focussing on areas identified by the loss reduction
study.  The reinforcement of the distribution network in the Monkey Bay and
Chirimba areas is in progress under a Spanish assisted program. The proposed
provides for the increase in the 66/33kV substation capacities at Zomba (IOMVA),
Monkey Bay (5MVA) and Chirimba (10MVA); 10MVA of 66/llkV substation capacity at
Limbe. In addition, the Project provides for the following: (i) uprating two
33/llkV 6MVA substation capacity to 8.5MVA; installing 1.5MAr shunt capacitance
in Thylo's distribution system; (ii) installation of 105MVA 33/0.4kV and 250MVA
of 11/0.4kV distribution transformers; constructing a total of about 220 km of
33kV, 230km of 11kV, about 10km of 11kV underground cables and 120km of low
voltage overhead lines; (iii) reconductoring about 250 km of 11kV lines in Thylo,
Mulange and Blantyre; (iv) procurement of about 25 of 66kV and 70 of 11kV circuit
breakers; 30 autoreclosers of 33kV and 70 of 11kV, 110 sectionalisers of 11kV;
(v) purchase of about 40.000 kWh meters including up to 1,000 prepayment meters
(if trials of the first 50 becomes feasible); and (vi) purchase of about 320
heavy duty and service vehicles for use in the extension, maintenance and
operation of the distribution system.
E. ESCOM's Institutional Strengethenina
26.    ESCOM's institutional strengthening comprises: consultancy services,
provision of computer hardware and software, and training. Consultancy services
will be needed to determine the project to follow Rapichira. Previous studies
have identified Kholombidzo and Mpatamanga, both on the Shire river, as possible
sequences of development after Kapichira (Annex 6.1).   The studies require
upgrading. Other options like interconnection with neighboring countries need
reconsideration, particularly if the construction of major hydro-electric plants
in the region materialize.    The Project provides about 70 man months for
consultancy services to determine the next project, in accordance with terms of
reference to be agreed with IDA. Computerization of ESCOM's financial operation
is presently in progress with computers procured under Energy I Project. ESCOM
intends to expand ite computer system to cover initially the billing of its
outlying dietricte and also to gradually introduce a management information
system. The specific requirements as presently conceived by ESCOM are two
supervision computers to be inetalled at the regional offices of Lilongwe and
Mzuzu.   Kaeungu,  100 km from Lilongwe, Dedza  (90 km), Mchinji  (150 km),
Nkaotakota (200 km), Salima (100 km), and Ntcheu (150 km) will each be provided
with PCs and, using daily-up telephonee, will be linked to Lilongwe's regional



- 6)8 -
AMNEX 4.1
Page 9 of 10
supervision computer. In like manner PCs will be installed each at Mzimba, 50
km from Hzuzu, Karonga (221 km), Rumphi (80 km), Chitipa (450 km) and Chinteche
(50 km). and each will be connected to Mzuzu via a telephone line. Each of the
seven district centers in the southern region (Balaku, Nchalo, Thylo, Mulange,
Zomba, Liwonde and Mangotchi) will likewise be linked to ESCOM's headquarters in
Blantyre.  The viability of ESCOM's intention needs evaluation.  A strategy,
setting priorities and defining specific requirements and their timing, needs to
be developed to expand ESCOM's computer system, including a gradual introduction
of a management information system.  The Project provides:  (i) about 20 man
months for expert services to develop a strategy, in accordance with terms of
reference to be agreea upon with IDA; and (li) hardware and software to meet
ESCOM's initial priority requirements.  Training and manpower development is
spelt out in ESCOMs 5-year corporate plan, and aims at continuation of
strengthening ESCOM's capability to plan, manage and operate its facilities.
ESCOM's training program emphasizes the fields of accounting, planning,
management and specilized fields in electrical engineering. Some of the programs
like accounting are sponsored in local colleges.   ESCOM resorts to training
abroad, either for graduate studies or short term courses, for specializations.
The Project provides for training abroad (under ESCOM funding) of about 10 man
years for graduate studies in the areas of engineering, accounting and utility
management. Short term courses in power system protection, system planning and
management will also be provided. The Project's bid documents will include about
200 man months for training about 30 electromechanical power plant technicians
during the final phases of plant assembly, testing and erection at site. The
engineering consultant will also be expected to carry out on-the-job training in
project design, supervision and procurement.
Non-Power CoMnonents
27.    Rner=w Planning and Policy.  The main activity under energy planning
focusses on developing a household energy strategy. The Government, under the
co-ordination of the Department of Economic Planning and Development, intends to
carry out a country wide household energy supply and demand survey, and develop
a policy addressing the strategy to follow in the medium and in the long term.
The Project will address urban households in the major towns in Malawi and
develop a methodology to be applied in rural areas. The scope of the study will
include assigrients to: (i) establish a firm data base on energy supply and
demand by urban households; and (ii) examine existing mechanisms and channels for
the supply, dietribution and marketing of the various fuelwood and other forms
of energy in use by households; (iii) examine the dynamics of interfuel
substitution in urban households; (iv) assess the impact of disseminating energy
efficient stoves on the demand for softwood and hardwood charcoal at target
centers; and (v) evaluate the economic and financial viability of a range of
policy interventions Xhat the Government requires to alleviate energy supply and
demand imbalances for the household sector, and recommend appropriate strategies.
The study will also recommend a methodology to follow for rural energy survey.
The technical assiotance will provide for training local staff in developing a
household energy strategy.   The Project provides about 200 man months for
coneultancy services.   Vehicles and computer hardware and Software are also
included.  A provolson of about 15 man months is also made   to assist the



- 69 -
ANNEX 421
Page 10 of 10
Government on energy issues, including coal and petroleum exploration, energy
efficiency initiatives for small industries, conservation and demand management
measures. IDA will review terms of reference for any of the activities prior to
their initiation.
28.    etolSupnlv.  The objective of the petroleum supply study is to
determine the least cost supply options for Malawi. The study will review the
sources for petroleum supply and their mode of transport, arrangements for bulk
storage and the need for strategic reserve, possibilities for bulk purchase and
bulk sales. The supervisory role for these activities is presently vested on the
Petroleum Control Commission (PCC). PCC is not mandated to either sanction or
give effective directives or carry out any of the above activities. Direct bulk
procurement and bulk sales, construction and operation of bulk storage facilities
by PCC would encourage competition in petroleum product supply and reduce costs.
The changes needed in the legal framework of PCC will be studied. Provision of
about 10 man months for consultancy is made in the Project.
29. Energa Efficiency. The estate sector, responsible for commercial tobacco
plantations, is intensifying its effort in introducing efficient woodfuel saving
barn designs and using charcoal from the thinnings of the Viphya plantations.
In an effort to benefit from this energy efficieny initiative, the Project will
investigate the technical and economic viability of reducing fuel usage in flue
and dark fired tobacco curing by smallholder farmers through the use of.more
efficient communal barns.  The Project will finance the services of an energy
efficiency specialist and an instrumentation expert for two years (1993. 1994)
at a quoted price of US$300,000. Support will also be provided for electronic
instruments and small vehicles (estimated at US$100,000).



- 70 -
ANNEX 4.2
PMALAY                                           page Iot 8
ENERGY V PRJCT
ELETICI   SUPPLY COUMMiS8ON OF MALAWt 15300441
FORECAST INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
FOtTHEYEA       3ENJDI MARCH31
AOTUAAL                                PROJEOTED
TOTAL
PrOect        1990191  100t/92 1902103 1009104  19040       it   1190097 100710   9     01 - 9
Tedzanl III (2-2SMWXDA & Austria)
Forelgn cost (currentS)                  1.08   10.86   14.84   12.43    8.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    48.30
Foreign cost (current K)                 3.04   31.47   44.22   '17.68   25.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   138.38
Localcost ourrentp1)                     0.22    9.68   16.82   13.79    8.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    46.30
TOTAL                  Energy 1        3.28   41.06   81.04   61.46   31.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   184.68
Studleo ODA)
Foreln cost (current S)                 0.23    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.21
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.68    0.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.61
Loci cost (current PO                   0.17    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.04
TOTAL                  Energy 1        0.83    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.66
Computors (IDA)
Foreign cot (ourrent8)                  0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.36
Foreign cost (ourrent K)                 0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.02
Locai cost (current pi)                 0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.06
TOTAL                  Energy I        0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.07
Tedzanl Rehab.ODA)
Foreign cost (current S)                0.00    0.61    0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.47
Forelgn cost (current K)                0.00    1.77    2.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       4.33
Local cost (current p)                  0.00    0.06    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.10
TOTAL                  Energy I        0.00    1.82    2.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       4.43
Kapichira Phase I
Foreign cot (currentS8)                 0.00    1,60    8.05   27.33   38.72   33.81    8.38    2.60    0.00   119.19
Foreign cost (curront K)                 0.00    4.64   20.71   82.81   118.48  103.62   28.08    8.14    0.00   364.30
Local cost (current p)                  0.00    0.e8   14.68   44.60   46.29   42.01   13.06    8.05    0.00   187.26
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    6.60   36.29  127.31  163.77  146.63   40.02   14.10    0.00   631.81
Generation Rehaibilitation
Foreign cost current8)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    1.01    4.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       6.19
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    3.08   12.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.86
Local cost (current p1)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.68
TOTAL                 Power V          0.00    0.00    0.00    3.03   13.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.41
132 kV Rsh Llw4Siima-Chint
Forelgn cost (ourrentS )                 0.00    0.00    1.42   11.69    1.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    14.62
Foreign oost (ourrent K)                 0.00    0.00    4.23   36.42    4.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    44.27
Looal cost (current pO)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    2.04    2.14    1.60    0.79    0.82    0.00      7.29
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    0.00    4.23   37.48    6.78    1.60    0.79    0.82    0.00    61.68
Distribution Reinforcemont
Foreign co4t (currentS)                  0.00    0.00    4.48   13.83    4.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    23.09
Foreign cost (ourrent K)                 0.00    0.00   13.36   41.00   14.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    69.88
Localcost our.entpD                      0.00    0.00    0.00    7.04   11.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    18.13
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    0.00   13.36   48.04   25.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    88.01



- 71 -
ANNEX4.
M!m                              ~~~~~~~~~Pap 2 of a
f_0E"_MTIMEWMENTMqRWMEUkI
EOTI49VEAR0ENDING MARll0
AOTUAL-- -                                                                  - En D
TOTAL
ELff l         mm 1026019a 0011026J-fo(  19-m W    1                    100hO   8"      01-00
8CADA Lliongwe
Forelgn oot (ourrentS)                   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.64
Foreign cot (ourrent K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    4.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      4,97
Looal oost (ourront p1                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.G2    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.82
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    0.00    0.00    6.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       8.49
Inotitutional - Studies
Forelgncoost(current)                    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.o9    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.72
Foreign MOCt (current K)                 0.00    0.00    1.49    2.00    1.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      6 20
Loo cout (ourrent po                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.22
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    0.00    1.65   Z21       1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      6.42
Instltutlonal - Computers Phase 11
Foreign coost (ourrentS)                 0.00    0.00    0.0S    0.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.62
Foreign coot (ourrentK)                  0.00    0.00    0.16    1.42    0.00    O.00    0.on    0.00    0.00      1.67
Local ot (ourrent p)                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
TOTAL                  Power V         0.00    0.00    0.16    1.42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.87
Inotitutlonal - Training
Forelgn oost(ourrentS)                   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.11    0.10    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.43
Foreign oost ourrentK)                   0.00    0.00    0.30    0.03    0.31    0.W7    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.31
Local oo t (ourrent p0                   0.00    0.00    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00      0.08
TOTAL                  Power V         0,00    0.00    0.31     0.34    0.02    0.35    0.01    0.00    0.00     11.0
Nkubia No.G6fV4
Foreign cot (currsnts6)                 30.3    7.10    2.8     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.07
Forelon oost (ourrent K)                10.13   20.86    6.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    20.43
Lool coot (ourrent PO                   0.30    2,88    Z34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       8.22
TOTAL                  Generation      10.43   23.73   10.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    34.68
Keplohirm Phaso If
Foreign oat (currant )                   0100    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1(n1    9.61   20.17   2.08     6Z.64
Forelgn cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.03   00.61   81.01   60.11   106.60
Lool oolt(currentp1                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    Z03   06.2    1343    8.64    300.2
TOTAL                  Generation      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0608   37.10   &804   88.65   227.18
Nkua BDILLW 102 WV(Franc)
Foreign cost (current S)                 0.80   18.02    4.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    19.92
Forsfgn cost currentK)                  10.08   44.43   13.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    88.14
Looal coot (outrent pO                   0.30    9,45    4.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    14.09
TOTAL                  TransmIlsion   10800   63.08    18.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    72.03
Nkuia BILL 8 102 V 2nd Line
Foreign coos (ourrent 6)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00      t.00
Forei4n coot (ourrent K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.89   12.84    22.03
Loalcoot (currentp)                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    8.00      0.02
TOTAL                  Transmlslon    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.31   18.64    28.98



- 72 -
ANNEX 4.2
MALAVWI                                      Page 8of3
POVER VP ECT
ELECTROIY SUPPLV COMMIOSSO  OF MALAWI(SCJ
FORECAST INVESTMENT P RAMME
FOR THE YEARS ENDING MARCH 31
ACTUAL - -  -RECTE D -
TOTAL
Prod0t        tOODI091/  1091/02 1992193 1903/04  1994/9  1996/98 1996/97  1997/98 1D981/9   91 -99
CHINICHIK 132 kV Une & Substn
Foreign cost (current S)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    2.60    0.60      6.70
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.09    8.14    1.68    17.80
Localcot (current p1                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    1.89    0.60      4.27
TOTAL                 Transrmission    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.97   10.03    2.08    22.07
132kv 8ubstn (GOLOMOTI)
Foreign oot (current 6)                  0.00    0.00    0.60    4.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      6.00
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    1.49   13.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.13
Local cost (current p)                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    o.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.82
TOTAL                 Transmission     0.00    0.00    1.49   13.81    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.96
PLC ES NORAD
Foreignecost(currentS)                   0.17    2.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.31
Foreign cost (current K)                09    6.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        6.70
Local cost (current p)                   0.00    0.4     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.46
TOTAL                 Tranemlssion     0.49    7.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       7.16
66kV Roint (Spdin)
Fcrslgn cost (currentS)                  0.00    1.21    1.21    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      3.63
Foreign coet (current K)                 0.00    0.61    3.81    3.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.78
Local coet (current p)                   0.00    0.63    0.63    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.89
TOTAL                 Transmislion     0.00    4.14    4.24    4.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.87
SADCC(MozXNORAD)
Forelgn cost (currentS)                  0.e8    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
Forclgn cost (current K)                 1.96    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
Local cost (current pl)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
TOTAL                  Distrbution     1.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
Dist Relnt & 132kV SISTN (EIB)
Foreign cot (currentS)                   2.93    6.63    2.82    0.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.27
Forelgn cost (current K)                 S.41   19.23    8.40    2A8    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    30.12
Local cost (current pD                   0.08    3.37    2.40    0.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.30
TOTAL                 Distribution     8.47   22.60   10.89    2.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    30.42
Distribution Expansion
Foreign cot (current6)                   2.08    1.70    2.07    3.0t    3.62    4.08    4.73    6.60    8.40    31.86
Forelgn cost (current K)                 6.97    4.93    7.08    9.24   10.77   12.67   14.71   17.22   20.22    97.62
Looicot currentp1)                      2.64    0.38    2.12    2.63    3.00    3.68    4.28     .11    8.12    27.08
TOTAL                 Distrilbution    8.61    629   10.08   11.77   13.77   10.16   18.97   22.33   20.34   124.70
ESCOM General Incl Gen Doi
Forelgn cost (current$)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00
Forelgn cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
Locicost(cufrentp)                       A49   14.60    1.23    1.17    1.60    1.64    2.00    2.00    2.00    20.14
TOTAL                  Distribution    6.49   14.60    1.23    1.17    1.60    1.64    Z00    Z00    Z00    28.14



- 73 -
ANNEX4.2
MALAWI                                        Page 4 of 8
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAVVI (ESCOM)
FORECAST INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
FORTHE YEARS ENDING MARCH 31
ACTUAL -                                ROJECTE D- -  -
TOTAL
prolect       190t91  1991192  1992/93 1993/94  1994/95  1995/98 1996/97 1997/98  1998199   91 -99
Rural Eloc Ph II (Small Hydro)
Foreign coat (current $)                 0.31    0.00    8.64    6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    12.96
Forelgn cost (current K)                 0.89    0.00   19.79   19.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    38.94
Local cost (current pD                   0.00    0.00    5.81    6.93    6.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    18.17
TOTAL                  Rural Elec      0.89    0.00   25.40   26.08    6.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    67.11
Rural Electr Phase III (Spain)
Forelgn cost (current $)                 0.00    4.24    4.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      8.47
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.00   12.30   12.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    24.90
Local ct (current pl)                    0.04    1.10    1.10    1.10    1.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      4.36
TOTAL                  Rural Elec      0.04   13.40   13.71    1.10    1.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    29.26
Rural Electr Phase IV
Forelgn cost (current8)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.30    1.18    0.64    0.47    0.60      6.09
Foreign cost (current K)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.04    3.63    1.99    1.47    1.68    16.71
Local cost (current pl)                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    1.47    0.80    0.69    0.60      6.32
TOTAL                  Rural Elec      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.90    6.10    2.79    2.08    2.18    22.03
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST:
Foreign cost (current S)                14.49   62.22   84.76   86.10   63.82   40.30   26.16   40.34   36.76   399.44
Forelgncost(currentK)                   41.69  161.44  163.16  267.86  195.29  124.12   81.36  126.26  116.13  1216.81
Local cost (current pi)                  9.15   43.43   61.68   79.96   80.97   62.24   30.32   3t.81    20.76   390.17
TOTAL                                 60.74  194.87  214.84  337.81  278.26  176.36  111.68  167.07  136.89  1606.78
INVESTMENT COST BY PROJECT:
ENERGY I                                 4.09   44.68   63.66   61.46   31.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   190.83
POWERV                                   0.00    6.60   64.88  226.21  211.61   147.41   40.82   16.01    0.00   701.44
GENERATION                              10.43   23.73   10.92    0.00    0.00    6.06   37.13   96.34   88.66   261.84
TRANSMISSION                            10.86   66.18   24.07   18.10    0.66    0.00    9.97   20.34   17.72   166.03
DISTRIBUTION                            24.42   42.49   22.20   16.87   15.27   17.79   20.97   24.33   28.34   187.25
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION                    0.93   13.40   39.10   26.18   17.59    5.10    2.70    2.06    2.18   108.40
TOTAL                                 60.74  194.87  214.84  337.81  276.28  176.36  111.68  167.07  136.89  1606.78
FINANCING PLAN:
ESCOM (INTERNAL GENERATION)              1.49   39.18   42.91   69.70   68.88   38.08   31.06   31.06   17.81   338.68
CONSUMERS' CONTRIBUTIONS                 7.66    4.76    9.07   10.69   12.39   14.63   22.08   26.11   24.76   123.26
GRANTS                                   3.33    2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.86
BORROWVINGI                             38.26  148.08  162.86  267.62  194.98  123.76   68.68  100.91   94.33  1140.99
TOTAL                                 60.74  194.87  214.84  337.81  276.26  176.36  111.68  167.07  136.89  1606.78



- 74 -
ANNEX4.2
MALANU                                                Page 6 1O a
POWER V PR EOT
ELECTACATY SUPPLY COMMiSSIOF OF MALAV1 (E_SCOM)
FORECAST INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
FORTHE YEARS ENINNG MARCH 31
PROJECT SUMMARYCOSTS
ACTUAL - -  - -ROJECTE D-  - -  -
TOTAL   TOTAL
1o90/t 1901,02  192/93  1OW094  1/9419gs igg1sB  12     10971/8  19W1989   91 -9    01 - 99
ENERGy I
Foreign cost(S)                          1.29   12.02   16.70   12.43    8.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    48.33    48.33
Localcoot (S)                            0.14    3.36    6.60    4.66    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    16.86    16.68
Tota cool (S)                            1.43   16.37   21.38   16.98   10.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    83.8e    63.39
Foreign coot (K)                         3.70   34.86   40.79   37.68   26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   144.34   144.34
Localcost (K)                            0.39    9.72   18.87   13.79    6.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    48.49    40.49
Total coot (K)                           4.09   44.68   63.68   61.48   31.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   100.83   100.83
POWEFRV
Foreign coot ($)                         0.00    1.60   13.60   66.77   49.82   33.73    8.38    2.60    0.00   166.40   160.40
Local cot (S)                            0.00    0.30    4.92   17.89   19.33   14.13    4.76    2.19    0.00    63.60    63.80
Totl cost (S)                            0.00    1.90   18.42   74.68   69.15   47.86   13.13    4.79    0.00   229.90   229.90
Foreogn coot (K)                         0.00    4.64   40.23  172.01  162.45  103.89   26.06    3.14    0.00   607.42   807.42
Locl coos (K)                           0.00    0.86   14.66   64.20   89.16   43.52   14.76    6.87    0.00   194.02   104.02
Totatcost (K)                            0.00    6.60   64.88  226.21  211.61  147.41   40.62   16.01    0.00   701.44   701.44
GENERATION
Foroign cost (S)                         3.63    7.19    2.88    0.00    0.00    1.31    9.81   26.17   26.36    47.36    72.71
Local coot (S)                           0.10    0.99    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.60    2.13    4.29    2.70      8.88    11.66
Tota coot (6)                            3.63    8.18    3.67    0.00    0.00    1.97   11.94   30.40   28.06    66.22    84.27
Foreign cost(K)                         10.13   20.66    8.68    0.00    0.00    4.03   30.61   81.91   80.11   146.80   228.00
Loo coost (K)                            0.30    2.38    Z34    0.00    0.00    2.03    6.62   13.43    3.64    27.30    36.84
Total cost (K)                          10.43   23.73   10.92    0.00    0.00    6.06   37.13   06.34   88.66   173.10   261.84
TRANSMISSION
Foreign cost ($)                         3.67   18.84    6.31    5.71    0.00    0.00    2.60    6.60    4.60    39.08    43.66
Looalcoot (6)                            0.11    3.63    1.77    0.23    0.21    0.00    0.60    0.90    1.11      7.38     849
Total coost (S)                          3.78   22-47    8.08    6.97    0.21    0.00    3.20    0.60    6.61    46.44    62.05
Forelon coot(K)   ,                     10.63   64.64   18.80   17.30    0.00    0.00    8.09   17.63   14.22   116.36   130.68
Looal c03t (K)                           0.33   10.84    8.27    0.80    0.66    0.00    1.88    2.81    3.60    21.96    26.46
Totl coost (K)                          10.86   66.18   24.07   18.10    0.66    0.00    9.97   20.34   17.72   138.31   160.03
DISTFSIBUTION
Foreign coot(s)                          6.89    8.33    6.49    3.87    3.62    4.08    4.73    6.60    6.40    36.62    41.92
Looal coat ()                            2.82    0.32    1.96    1.37    1.47    1.69    2.01    2.27    2.67    17.10    19.87
Toti cost (8)                            8.61   14.65    7.46    6.24    4.99    6.77    6.74    7.77    8.97    62.02    61.69
Forelgn cot (K)                         16.33   24.16   16.33   11.73   10.77   12.67   14.71   17.22   20.22   107.61   127.73
Localcost (K)                            8.09   18.33    6.34    4.14    4.60    6.22    6.28    7.11      .Q2    51.40    69.62
Totas coot (K)                          24.42   42.49   22.20   16.87   16.27   17.79   20.97   24.33   28.34   168.01   187.26



- 75 -
ANNEX 4.2
UALAWI                                                 Page B of f
POWERt V PROJECT
ELECTr&oYs8UPPLV GMmISIOs   OF mALAIaWM l
FOREAsr INVESTMENT PRORAMME
FORFTHE YEARSDINQH MIARCH 31
PROJECT SUMMARVCOSTS
ACTUAL -     - -                        ROJTE-
TOTAL   TOTAL
1990/91  1991192  109DV9  t093/94 19W4/25 19659   10197 1997/98  199B199   91-08   91-09
RURAL ELEOTR!FICATION
Foreign oost ($)                         0.31    4.24   10.87    6.32    2.30    1.18    0.64    0.47    0.60    26.02    26.62
Loecacst ($)                             0.01    0.38    2.26    2.02    3A5    9.48    0.26    0.19    0.19         9.32     9.61
Totalcost (S)                            0.32    4.62   13.12    8.64    6.75    1.68    0.00    0.60    0.69    35.34    30.0S
Foreign cost (K)                         0.09   12.30   32.39   19.16    7.04    0.63    1.09    1.47    1.68    77.07    70.56
Local cost (K)                           0.04    1.10    0.71    7.03   10.66    1.47    O.EO    0.69    0.60    28.26    28.05
Totalcost (K)                            0.93   13.40   39.10   20.18   17.69    6.10    2.79    2.00    2.18   109.22   198A0
ALL PRFJECTS -
CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Foreign cost (S)                         14.49   62.22   64.76   85.10   63.82   40.30   26.16   40.34   36.76   S62.69   399.44
Local cost ($)                           3.19   14.98   17.34   26.39   28.40   10.90    0.76    0.84    6.67   121.72   128.20
Totaicost (S)                            17.68   07.20   72.09  111.49   90.28   67.28   36.91    60.18   43.32   484.41    627.73
Foreign cost0()                         41.69  151.44   163.10  267.86  196.29  124.12   81.38  126.26  1t6.13   1099.48   1216.61
Localcost (K)                            9.16   43.43   61.68   70.98   00.97  56.24   30.32   30.81   20.76   369.41   390.17
Total cost (K)                           60.74  104.87  214.84  337.81  270.20   170.30  1168   157.07   138.80  1468.e9  1605.78
INT DURNG CONSYRPDO)
POWER V       (S)                        0.00    0.00    0.82    3.63    7.83    7.75    9.64    10.64    0.00    40.48    40.48
ALL OTHER PROJECTS(S)                    0.11    2,47    6.68    4.27    4.07    0.S0      0.69    2.14    4.65    19.61    24.08
TOTAL       ($)                          0.11    2.63    0.48    7.00   1l.00    8.06   10.43   12.70    4.66    69.98    64.64
POWERV        (K)                        0.00    0.18    2.46   10.70   23.08   23.87   30.60   33.31    0.00    126.07   126.07
ALL OTHER PROJECT8(K)                    0.32    7.17   10.87   12.04   12,46    0.91      1.86    8.71   14.39    68.00    73.29
TOTAL       (K)                          0.32    7.36   19.32   23.64   38.41   24.78    32.46   40.02    14-39   183.97   108.36
NOTE
Costs are expressed both In USS and Kwacha (K). Foreign costs aro converted from 6 to K
and focal costs aro converted from K to 1 using the forecast ratoo of exchange.
September 13, 1991



76.-                             ANNEX4.3
Page  oft 7
MALAWI POWER V
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATE&
Local      Foreign     Total           Local        eIn        Total
KAPICHIRAPH1I
1. CIVIL WORKS                 (In mill. Kwaoha)                       (In mill. Dollars)
1.1 Access Road/'         9.47      10.09       19.5B             3.17       3.38        8.66
1.2 Main Civil
Worke                 108.09     142.73      248.82            34.e4      40.60       81.24
1.3 Gates.
Ponstocks             25.61       35.03       60.64            8.36       11.48       19.84
Sub total CW          141.087     1075       328.91             .17       81.48      10783
2.ELECTROMECHANICAL
2.1 Turbines              1.33       40.42      41.74             0. 3       13.19      13.02
2.2 Generators            1.32       37.46      38.78             0.43       12.22      12.05
Sub total, T&G          2.65       77.87       80.52            0.a6       25.41       20.27
2.4 Power crane           0.25       7.08        7.31             0.08       2.32        2.41
Sub total EM            2.90       84.93       873              2QP        27.73       28MM
3. SUBSTATION, TRANSM.
3.1 Switchgoar, transt.
control                3.80       28.26       32.06            1.24        9.21      10.46
3.2 Ttansmission          6.08       18.17      21.85             1.85       5.27        7.12
3.3 SCADA. PLC            0.69       2.60        3.39             0.19       0.91        1.10
Sub total S&T           10.07      47.22       67.2             3.28        6.40       18.87
4. RELOCATION             4.92       0.00        4.02             1.e4       0.00        1.84
6. ENGINEERING            8.28      44.19       62.47             2.74       14.80      17.34
Total Kapichira        107.24     384.19      631.43           6          11s919      173.08
GENERATION
Rehabliltation          0.60       18.60       10.42            0.18        6.19        6.38
TnANMISGSION
Reinforcement           7.28       44.28       61.64            2.37       14.04       17.01
SCADAUlongwoeI''        0.62        4.08        6.49            0.17        1.64        1.01
Sub total                7.80       49.23      67.03             2.55       10.28      18.82
DISTRIBUTION
Ra/ntorcemont           18.14      89.89       88.02            6.98       23.11       20.07
INSTITUTIONAL
Studeas                 0.21        8.20        6.41            0.07        1.72        1.79
Computers               0.00        1.87        1.57            0.00        0.52        0.52
TraIning                0.08        1.20        1.20             0.02       0.40        0.42
Sub total                0327        7.08       8.25             0.9 oa8                R.3
Total Power           1_04 701. 15                             R          18.42   22908
SUPPORT TO NON-POWER COMPONENT:
Expert serviceso:
Patroieum               0.05        0.78        0.01            0.03        0.25        0.28
Energy Planning & Polloy
Household energy        0.08        1.22        1.27            0.02        0.40        0.42
Expen services          0.08        0.81        0.00            0.03        0.20        0.23
Energyeoflclency        0.02        1.22        1.24            0.02        0.40        0.42
Sub total                0.12        3.05      _3.1              0.08        1.00       1. 0
Total Non Power          0.17                   3.98             00 ,125                1.34
Total Power V    6      jj,ft     810.98      706.14              E        _10707     231.30
'/Contingencies included In each component
I/KpIochira Phase 11 la ostimated at USS85.0(K200.7) million
foreign and MK31.2(USSIO) millon local
* */Provislon made for camp fanilitlee In Accoss Road
* I  ISCADA provision for LUiongwe distribution



-  77 -                      ANNEX 4.3
Pane2of7
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATE"
Local     Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign     Total
(In mill. Kwacha)                       (In mill. Dollars)
BASE COST
A. KAPICHIRAPHI"-
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Access Road/*'        6.63        7.34      13.86             2.19        2.46        4.65
1.2 Main Civil
Works                  65.41      93.49      168.90            21.37       30.64       61.91
1.3 Gates.
Penstocks              16.07      23.45       39.52             6.27        7.69       12.98
Sub total CW           88.00      124.28      212.28           28.82       40.69       69.51
2.ELECTROMECHANICAL
2.1 Turbines              0.84       27.56       P8.40            0.27        9.00        9.27
2.2 Generators            0.84       25.60       26.44            0.27        8.36        8.03
Subtotal, T&G            1.68      53.16       54.84             0.55       17.35       17.60
2.3 Power crane           0.17        5.06       5.22             0.06        1.67        1.72
Sub total EM             1.84      58.22       60.06             0.60       19.02      19.62
3. SUBSTATION, TRANSM.
3.1 Switchgear, transt.
control                2.43       19.32       21.75            0.79        6.30        7.09
3.2 TransmIsslon          3.39       11.04       14.43            1.16        3.60        4.76
3.3 SCADA, PLC            0.36        1.85       2.22             0.12        0.60        0.72
Subtotal S&T             6.18      32.21       38.39             2.07       10.60      12.67
4. RELOCATION             3.47        0.00        3.47            1.16        0.00        1.10
6. ENGINEERING            6.60       31.69       37.29            1.85       10.49       12.34
Total KapichiraBC       106.28     246.40      351.67            34.60       80.70     116.20
BASE COSTS
A. Kapichira            106.28      246.40      361.67           34.60       80.70      115.20
S.Gen Rehab               0.38       11.16       11.62            0.12        3,65        3.77
C. Transm. Rein.          4.46       30.88       35.32            1.45       10.20       11.66
0. SCADA                  0.36        3.62       3.98             0.12        1.20        1.32
E, Distr. ReIn.          11.67       48.72      60.20             3.80       18.12       19.92
F. lnstitut.              0.18        6.83       6.81             0.06        1.89        1.92
TotalBaselCosts        122.21      346.38      468.68           40.06      113.73      163.78
CONTINGENCIES
A. Kapichira
PC                     14.95      31.05       46.01             4.90       10.17      16.07
PRO                    47.01      86.74      133.76            15.36       28.33      43.69
B. Gen Rohab
PC                      0.04        1.12       1.16             0.01        0.37       0.38
PRC                     0.16       3.69        3.76             0.06        1.18       1.23
C. Trancm. Rein.
PC                      0.67       4.63        6.30             0.22        1.63       1.76
PRO                     2.16       8.78       10.93             0.70        2.90       3.60
D. SCADA
PC                      0.04       0.36        0.40             0.01        0.12       0.13
PRC                     0.13       0.98        1.11             0.04        0.33       0.37
E. Dlstr. Rein.
PC                      1.74       7.31        9.04             0.67        2.42       2.99
PRO                     4.83      13.86       18.69             1.69       4.58        6.16
F. Institut.
PC                      0.02       0.74        0.77             0.01        0.25       0.26
PRO                     0.07        1.60       1.67             0.02        0.63       0.65
Sub total conting.
PC                     17.48       46.21      62.68             6.72       14.85      20.57
PRC                    64.35      116.65     169.90            17.77       37.84       66.61
TOTAL POWER             194.01     607.14      701.16            63.54      168.42     229.98
* ' Contingoncles shown separately



- 78 -
ANNEX4.3
Page 3of 7
MALWOERV
SUMdMA Y PROJECT OST ESTIMATEO
J,         kF,ian      Total           locat         gn        Total
(In mill. Kwaoha)                      (in mlil. Dollars)
SUPPORT TO NON-POWER COMPONENT:
Expert servicoe:
Petrolium               0.03        0.63       0.60             0.01       0.10        0.20
Energy Planning
Houwshold energy        0.03        0.82       0.65             0.01        0.27       0.28
Expet servic            0.03        0.40       0.43             0.01        0.13       0.14
Enrgy eofflconcy        0.01        0.83       0.84             0.00       0.28        0.28
Sub total BC             0.10       2.65        2.e8            0.03        0.87        0.90
Contlngenolae:
Petroleum
PC                     0.00        0.06        0.05            0.00        0.02       0.02
PRO                    0.02        0.18        0.20            0.01        0.04       0.05
Energy Planning
Household energy
PC                     0,00        0.00        0.09            0.00        0.03       0.03
PRO                    0.02        0.31       0.33             0.01        0.10       0.11
Expert services
PO                     0.00        0.00       0.00             0.00        0.00       0.00
PRO                    0.02        0.21       0.23             0.01       0.07        0.08
Energyefflolenoy
PC                     0.00        0.10       0.10             0.00        0.03       0.03
PRO                    0.01        0.20       0.30             0.00        0.09       0.03
Sub total conting.
PC                     0.00        0.24        0.24            0.00        0.08       0.08
PRO                    0.07        0.09        1.00            0.03        0.30       0.33
Total non-power           3, s.1                #,,              0.0         1.25        "
Total Powof V            f.        810.5       705.13           03.60      167.627 
*/Contingenoies shown soparatoiy



1____                 2vM281                S20M3I8                                     20090                210*0 1282W87                           9201                      Tw.
two s2        a!!!   LOW  --IW l! Tdg    SinaI           TubS    !22! Y01-  TOWS   LOWi ____   TobI    LOWi P*             mg  Local      Ig   Tosti  mL-  Fd    igLw         Loin]-9   Tadj
010. UWOC
21.0.0
NRul     cc        0.00   0.0   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    08?   600)  ta.r,    063   0.13   1.32      ow      w     ow      co      w 0.00 O  000      0 .W 0 00   0 .00   0.00 QQ   0.00 0.00 a0.5G   7.54  1100
PC          0.00   000   000D    000   000D  00D    00    0.60   1.07         0.0   Oil  0.22       00    0.00   0.00     0 0   000   000   0.00   000   000   00C0   0.9  00        O      WO  o    1.10   2.00
ST          0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   000D    6.7   7.09  24.53    0.23   0.94   1.5      000   0.00   000      0.0O   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     700D  044  20.94
PM           000  0Q00   0.00     000   000   0.00      1.12   1 43   110     0.24   021   043      0.00   0.00   0.00    000   000,  0.00   0.00   000   000   0.00   0.00   000         200   1035  102
512         0.00   0.00   0.0     000D  0.00   0.00     0.47   9.06  17.01    0.60   200   2.00     000   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.0   0.00   000   000   0.00   0.00   0.00       047  10.09  1900
1.2SbMa
cboWf  80          00   0am    0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    000   000   000   12224  51.79  04.03    10.5  23.37  39.72    17.02  24.31  41.51   6.04   9.35  10.09  352?   4.0?   7.94       6341  9349 1m00
PC          000   0.00   QD       O 0.00 0O 00    0     0.0   000D  0.00      123   4.77   810      2.4  3 51   500       2.55   363   020   090   140   238   0.49   070   1.19          9081  14.02  23.23
$71         0.00   0.00   0oo     000   300   0.00      000   000   000    25.5?  W0.00  0.13    1800o  2506  45.68    29.55  27.95  47.02   7.02  20 75  1027   310  0S8   9.14         10122 107052 29731
PM0         0.00   0.00   000     000D  000   00        0.00   0.00   0.00    02?   904  27.32      7.53   0l8  1300      80B  10.4?  19.45   400   415   0.13   2.29   2.7   000O       SOt?  5321  90.00
512         000   0.00   000      000   0.00   Q.00     000   000   000    005   42.00  79 43    20.23  3308  01.19   28.4  58.45  S0.9   1102  20050  27.00   0.00   0.24  14,19        20009 149.3 240.112
leao?m18  cC       aW0  0.0    00D       000   000   000       1.62   235   195      3.21   469   7.90    063  22 73  2070    2.42   302   0.93   090o   117   2.    0.00   0.00   0LOD          I0.07  22.4   39.02
PC          0.00   000   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.24   033   009      0.48   0.10   129     2.21   1.78   2.00    0.30   0.135  0.89   0.12   018   010D  000   0.00   0.00       2.42   502   0193
Sri72          0.00   0.00 000    000 00 0.00 O         1.00   270   4.54     3170   039   0.09     9.24  11.48  22.12    2.77   400   0.72   092   10?5  22    000   0,00   0.00        1048  209?  942.4
PRO         0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   000   0.00     0.47   001   0.98     1.2   1.55   2.03     160   420   7.70      2.2?   1.02   2.79   00 0I00.  1.00   000   000   0.00          7.05   0.00  1029
372         0.00   0.0    000     0.00   00D   000D    2.32   122   00        4.09   0.15  21.02    12.84  27.9  30.42    4.04   000   9.02   2.42   204   585  0.00   000   0.00        20.0  353.00  00.04
2.0 Si*ToW
CS    13C          0.00   0.00   000     000   0.00   0.00     7.48   0.05  2845    20,10  57.21  M332    24.29  20210  09.48    1943  27.83  4724   7.34  1002  1787  312?   4.07   7.94        MOD 12423 212.2
PC          0.00   000D  000      000O   00 0.00 O      1.12   134   240    3102   0.08   800       365   2.25   092    12.1   427   7.00   120   L.58   200   0.49   0.70   2219        13.20  20.04  31.94
37          000   0.00   000      0.00   000   0.00     0.00  1039  10.09    20.02  42.7  72.81    2904  4038  00.42   1203  320 OD04.23   8 45  1210  20.05   170   SW3  924            20220 242.92 244.122
P220        0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   000   0.00     2.19   2.00   4.23    9.72  1009  210.10    10923  1228  2121    1024  12.9  12224   04.4   2.35   9.94   2.29   2.77   0.00     39.00  44.92  94.79
37          0.00   000   0.00     000   000   0.00    20.le  22.53  2304    28.73  M3138  9321    W.97  0264  9101    2058  4399  70.37  1Z294  17.43  W30.59,GS4  0.14  24.19           241.00 187.35 228.l
ZBE0CTROMECE4AN=9AIOII
at2 T1mb,
Oo,a,wv.   SC      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   000D  0.00     000   000   CL00      0.00   002   0.01     0.54  802   913    0.46  1205  22.32   0.04   258   142   Q.00   0.00   0.00          0904  270   22.40
as2         0.00   0.00   0.00    000   000   0.00      0.00   000   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.37   9.70  1007     0.02  13504  1354   0.00   2050  123   0.00   000D  000         0922  32230  31.32
PRC         0.00    -O 0.00 000   0       .00   0 .00 000  00   0.00    O 000 000 1.0   2.0         024   2.93   309      023   4.88   2.12   005   0.70   0.73    X 0.00   0 .00 000      40  .0.04  20.44
372         000   0.00   0.00     000   000   000       0.00   000   000D    000   7.58   7.00      052  1265  12.1       074  17.92  28.00   0.07   220   230   0.00   000   0.00        2.23  40.42  41.74
12.20.wtma
SC          000   0.00   0.00     000D  0.00   0.00     0.00   000   0.00    0.00  502   512    0.34   829   OM3    0.050I 120   11.47   0.00   128   1.52   0.00   0.00   0.00           0.04  20.60  2044
PC          0.00    .O 0.00    0   .00 000   00    0.00  0090   000   0.00    000   0.02   0.31     0.63   0.02   0.00    0.00   1.10   1.13   0.00   0.13   015   0.00   0.0   0.00      age0  2.55   2.94
sit         000   00D   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    000   000D  000       000   063   063       0 37   9.01   9.35    0.52  12.11  1202   0.63   1.41   2.45   0.00   0.0   0.00      0922  20.1  28.00
P60         000   0.00   0.0)    0.00   C.OD   000      0.00   0.00   000     000   1.39   2.3      Q24   2.74   2.0      0.23   45S4   4.77   0.02   0.02   065   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.40   9.29  9.09
372         OO 0.00  ) 0.00 060    00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   7.03   763     002   I 273  2227     0.74  1065327.39   007   2.03   2.10   0.00   0.00k  0.00       2.32  37.43  34.70
2.3 Pwo Mlom Cm*
SC           O 0.00   0.00 0      ac00    00D .00    0   .00 000    70   079  063   2.2   2.32      0.15   2.02   2.64    0.01    5 0.51 00    000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.27   S050  222
PC          000   000   000D    000   000   000         0.00   000   ace0    0.00   0.23   023      0.01   01s   020      000   0.00   Cos   0.00   0060   0.00   000   000   0.00        0.02   0.52   0.02
372         0.00   0.00   0.00    000   000   0.00      000   Q0.3   0.83     0.04   2.00   2.04    0.24   2.07   281     001   0.08  0.5?   0.00   000   000D  Q00   000   0.00          0.29   2.00   2.70
P60         0.00   0.00   000,    0.00   000D  0600     0.00   0.29   0.20    0.02   002   065      Co0s   Qs0   0.08     000   0.21   0.21   0.00   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.07  1l4S   1.06
372         000   0.0OD   0.00    000   000   0OD       000   099   0.60      0os   312   a17       0.19   ate   257      001   0 70   0.    0.00   0.00   0.00   000O  0.00   0.00       0.20   7.00   7.52
2.4 Awflary
00000-   cc        000   0.00 QQ 0.00    0.00 000 0.0          000   0.00   0.00     000   000   0.00    0.0   0.00   000        0.0   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000       0.00   0.00   0.00
VN2I8n33211PC      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00063    0O  000 000000000                0000 D AD             CD CO         .D      00000.00D0000000.00 00000 000.00000 000 000         000         0.00   0.00 000
371         000000000O    0.00  04000.                  0000000    0.00   0           00 CD CD0.00  0.000COD0.00          000   0.00  000  0.00000000W 0000000  000                       0.00  000000
PAC         0.00   0.00   000     0.00   0.00   000,    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   000   0.00     000D  000   000       000   000   0.0   0.00   0.00   000   0OD   0.00   0.0          0.00   0.00   0.00
S72         0000000    0            00000 0.O    0 00   000000000    0          0000000 0.00 OD 00  000D000   0.00        0.00   000  QO0.000. 0000   0.0000OD0000  000                   0.00 000 0.00
2.0 SibToll 
EIoc8o-   SC       0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.0     0.00   0.78   0.75    063  22.01   2.94    0.00  10.02  120.2     0.93  23 3r  24.29   0.00   2.60   2.74   0.00   0.00   0.00    2.9  00.2  00.00
a"Cu"0,sP Fe         000.0OO0000         QO    OO000   000     0.00000D0.00          0.00   2.2   2.29     000   2.00   1.93    0.00   2.24   2.43   001   033  0 5300D0000  000                 01905606.00
mRC                 0 0.00 a  A   0.00)  000   0.00     0.00   0.20   0.t6    0.01   1051   102     0.24   0.20   004     0.47   983  10.20   0.00   1002   171  0.00   000   0.00        0.87  20902  22.70         a4'
372         0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    000   0.00   0.00     0.00  2771  27.74    1.22  20.00  27.00C    2.49  353.3  58 02   0.24   4.52   4.48   0.00   0.00   0.00    2.00  94.93  07.83



limm                 "MJ02                IMM                  190                 loom                 t                 lemm                Isom                    Tced
1-0 F-%ft             "W FtM  Taftl  lMg ftel-  aLd  le!! Fa                        WW F-  LOW    Foe_  !-me  no, -re-MID                        L-0 FO44P am
T"NVAKINNK ac     CLOD   MOD  (LOD    0.001  Wig  0.00    Om    GRO   0.00    0=    3.16   I=          0.42  1117  Wig    1.0   9,102  ILOO   M12  0.97   3.99   0.90   0.00   0.00       2.0   U=   M.75
an          am    C-.W    QOI)   CLOD   MOD   am      OLM   MOD   MW       Oa    im    im       1.12  1329  VC51    1.17   =      WO   0.14  1.11  IM    0.00   0.0   0.00         2.67  M.30  2&W
=2         O"    am    aca    0.90   am    CLOD    CLOD   OLOO   O.W       0.122   I"    1.91    CS   17.45  19.42    1.71   7-W   9.31   0.21  IAD   1.12   GLOD   0.00   9.90    UD  mz   M95
SC         acv   am    QGD    OAD   Q.W   OLW         aw    QOD   MOD    am    CLCD   CLOD    $AD   7.73  4LT3    =        2.18  slis  0.10  IOLSS   0.73   Qm    am    MW         3.W  11,01  14LGI
Fe         QLW  IDLOD   CLOD    (LOD   OL130   QGD    cloo   400   0.90    CLOD   0.00  (LOD    0.10   Q77   MW      0.24   MO    *52  IM03   O-CO   all  CLOD   COD   0.00        Om    1.13  im
PFC        aca   Q.OD   Q(c      QOD   GAO  IOLOD    0.00   aw    OLOD    CLOD   O.W  4MO       0.43   ISD   &03    121   1.14   Z35   0.11   0-M   0.39   CLOO   GIOD   0.90      1.75   COD  Ws
W2         ew    aoo   0.0       O.W   QGD   aLgo    aw    CLOD   CAD    OA0   0.00  CLOD    I=   11.08  IZ61        164   4.17   tgl  CL31   a92   *23   MOD   MOD   O.W          &W   W?  2SA5
az SCOM&
Re      SC        Gw    COD   am        OLOD   QOD   CLCD    0.00   go    MOD    OLCO   aw    0.00    0.03   0.19   am      a3l   SM    1.60   0.03   QQP   0.12   0.100   MW    0.00     M35   lm
PC         aco   QW    OLOD    0.90   QOD   am        OLOD   OOD   MOD    0.00   O.W   0.400    0.00   002   U2    0.03   MIG   0.10   aOO   0.01   002   0.00   O-OD   0.00       0.04   0.12  Om
an         aw    CLOD   MW       am    OLCO   OLCO    aw    MOD   MW       OOD   0.00   MOO    am    0.2D   0124    0.36   1.73   Z07   0.03   olit   0.14   MOD   CO    0.00      OL40   ZOG   US
GLW   QCD   QOD    0.00   M(lo  CLOD    am    CLOD   MW        MOD   OLW   OLOO    CLOS   0.96  49LOY    0.15   QGS   0.60   0.92   0.95   0.95   0.00   Q.W   0.09    0.19   ale   0.1"
am         om    Aft   aco    0,00   0.90  (kag    CLOD  GLOCI  CLOD    QoCl  aw    CLOO    Mof   am    0.31    0.49   2.33   Ze?   0,05   QIS  02D   0.00   MOD   0.00            OM    2JOD  3.39
U MOTOW
steguama cc       QW    CLOD   QAO      CLOO   acD   0.00    rAOD   0.00   090    M=    1.16   CM      ZOS  0.06  2ZI3    IN    9.35  W2   MIJ3   CO    1.94   am    0.00   0.00          &35  =a   aw
T=nwmbmm  PC      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.0   MW    CLOD    aw    OLOO   MOD    0.02   0.12   0.14    Om    201   2m        0.38   0.94   1.31   0.05   0.24   0.21)  0.00   0.00   MW    0.05   UO   195
sn          aw    CLOD   0.0     Om    COD   MOD    MOD  OLOD   0.00    Qa    129   I=          =    22.09  24.34    414  1020  14.44   0.=   1.05   2.0   0.00   0.00   0.00      7.01  T.61  4ZIS3
PFIC        OLCD   QW    400    aoo   0.00   0.00    O.W   am    MW        ace   olle  Om       0.00   6.72   7.W    1.90   US   SIG   020   =       1.W   0.00   000   MW         &M   11.71  14.77
S12         0.10   am    0.00    0.00   Qw    MW      OLM   GLOO   0.00    CLU   1.59   1.21    3.13  20.M   M.94    0.04  14.15  20.19   0.50   267   3.M   aOO   0.90   0.00    10.07  47.M  $720
4. FUbCWIM
ac          am    0.00   0.00    am    0.0   0.00    1.74  CLOD   1.74    1.74   MW    0.74    moo   am    CLOD    MW    (LOD   COD   OOD   000   OOD   0.00   000   MOD           3.47   aCO   U?
PC         MCL   0.00   aw       aw    0.00   aw      CAP   CLOD   0.17    0.17   QOD   0.17    CLOD   0.00   0.00    Q.W   CLOO   QOD   0,00   0.90   0.00   MOO   OOD   MOD      Om    0.00   CLas
on         CLOD   Om    OLCO    0,00   0.00   am      im    am    1.91    1.21   aw    %.gl    0 w    OLOD   alDO    MOD   0.00   QQD   000   AOD   0.00   O.W   0.00   MOD        112   MOD   &Q2
PRr         MW    MOD   0.00    QW    0.00   QOI)   0.49  0.00   0.49    062   MW    0.62    am    CLOO   MOD    QGO   0.90   Q00   0.00   0.00   0.09   0.00   MOD   AW           1.10   MOD   2.10
ST2        CLOD   OLOO   0.00    QW    0.00   O.Co    2m    QC*   Z39    2,53   MOD   Z53    0.00   aw    0.00    0.00   0.00   am    0.01)  0.00   0.00   0.00   000   0.00       4.12   MW    4.112
4ASIONEEFMM                                                                                                                                                                                                          CD
#.I 9 l  , .
swowwm  Ise       eco   OLOD   aoo    MOP   3M    4.47    1.01   WO   0.71    1.29   729   BL58    122   m          aw      1.10   6.65   7.93   O.U.   0.95   1.12   MW    MOD   0.00    5.GD  M.69  V.29
PC         0.00   aw    OLOD    0.07   aw    0.45    0.10  OJW   007    0.13   0.73   OJM       0.13  0.73   0.85    0.12   0.57   0.78  0.03   0.14  0.17  0.00   O.W   0.00      C.S?   3.22  3.78
PRO        000   ago   0.00    0.12   0.44   0.50    0.20  1.19   1.43    CLCB   1.90   Z44    Om    244   Z29    0.0   Z74   3.34   0.10   MO    MW    0.00   0.00   0.00         7-11   son  11.40
ST2        MW    OLOO   am       aM    4.42   5.49    1.39   7.47   0.05    I.W  10.W  11.00    1.97  10.45  IZ43    1.69  10.05  11.05   CAD   I.W   1.07   QW    0.90   MOD      &M   44.10  M47
CITOTALUPCHM
Be         aw    OLOD   0.0      0.67   3100   4.47   OOM   15.41  25.64   29.=   W-97  07.95   =52  MAD IC9.52   2529  6720  SZ49  7.02  W4  23.47   &V    4.67   7.94          iMM  24&40 =.GI
PC         aCO   MW    CLOD    0.07   0.39   OL45    1.4D  1.99   3.39    424   7.72  11.95    4.07   9.%  1&23    31W   all  11.61   1.19   2=    3.49   0.49   0.70   1.19      14-95  31.05  4"l
sn         MOD   O.W   CLOO    Q74   4.16   4.92   $1.42  17.0  29.C2    3342  66.0   Om       32.59  99.05 12&44   2(L?9  75.31 104.10  9.11  I&C4  V.15   &78   SM    9.14     120.23 277.45 39?.GB
PM         0.00   0.00   QOD    MU    0.44   QW       zso   Z31   O.V    law   lf.40  V.V    12-70  27A4  40.34   1&22  OM    QA4   4.135  7.97  12.62   2.2D   Z77   5.00        47.03  8&74 13&75
W2         OLW   am    0.00    MeS   4.62   5.49   14.W   W.72  35.29    44M   MGB 127.19    "    11849 IGM79   4ZOS 103.53 345.64  13.95  26-01  39.97   6.05   0.14  14.29     167.24 3KIS M1.43
inussmiL         MW    000   MOD    0.3D   0.60   1.90    4.02  CLOS  11.64   ltn   27.33  42.06   14JOD  3EL72  S&W    1&64  3&61  47.25   4.SG   OL33  1107   1.93   2.GD   4.53     5&77 119.19 17&95
so         om    O.W   0.00    0.00   0.00   QOD    0.00   aca   0.00    CLOO   223   223    OM    R22   929    aM    &W    200   OOD  CLOD   000   OOD   OOD   aCO                &35  11.15  U=
PC         am    QW    MOD    MOD   MW    0.00    MOD   eOD   QW           aW    0.22   0,22    004   0.89   0.93    0.00   O.W   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   aCO   MOD   OPOO     OL04   1.12  1.15
sn         aw    QOD   OPOD    000   0.00   MOD    QOD   OICO   0.00    CAD   Z45   Z43    QAD   9.61  iom           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.W   0.00   0.00   0.00   Q.W    M40  12.27  IZGI
FRC        0.00   ow    0.00    am    CLOD   Am       MOD   aOD   aW       MOD   0.61   0.61    0.10   2.99   3.14    000   MOD   0.00   000   000   MOD   000   COD   000         olle  3.59   3.75
ST2        0.00   CAP  0.00    0.00   QOD   O.W       0.00   0.00   OOD    ow    &06   too    a5b  IZOD  13.30    0.00   MOD   MOO   000   G.W   &W    MIDO   OOD   G.W            0.55  15.=  1&42
CTPANNMSMM
cc          0,00   aw    0.00    am    MOD   0.00    QW    109   109    1.34  24.0  26,02    134   3.09   C42    0.69   0.00   0.09   0.45   0.00   0.45   0.45   0.00   0.45      C40  WAS
FC          am    am    0.00    CLOO   OLOD   aoo    CLOD   048   0.48    M2D   170   3M        0-M   OL45   OAA     0.13   O-W   0.13  0.07   MOD   0.07   0.07   0.00   0.07     0.67   4.63   5,W
an         0.00   aoD   0.00    aW    0.01)  acD    Q.0-   3M    155    1.54  2OL29  29M        1.54  alss   5199    1.03   0.00   1.03   0.51   0.00   0.51   &51   0.00   0.51   S.13  3L49  40.61
PFtC       aW    CAD  40LOO    OAO   MW    MW         aw    aloe   CIGS    MW    7.02   7.52    MOD   1.08   I.W     0.47   MOD   0.47   0.27'  0.99   0.27   0.31   0.00   0.58   zis   Wa  11.2D
512         QCO   MW    MOD    0.00   CLOD   QOD    0.00   4M    4.22      Z04  M41  37.45    2.14   4.63   GL78    1.5D   0.00   1.50   0.79   0.00   0.79   0.82   0.00   0.02   7.M  44.=  51.U
C-TPANMBBXM
R
Be          CLOD   AOD   am      0.00   MOD   0.00    O.W   400   O.W      CLOD   0.00   000    MW    0.00   aOD    MW    0.00   MW    Moo   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   MOD       ago   0.00   0.90             w
PC          MOD   0.00   0.00    aol)  aco   CLOD    0.00   0,90   MOD    0.00   CLOD   CLOG    AOD   MW    0.09    CLOD   090   0.00   OOD   ago   Moo   000   0.90   0.00        090   CLOO   0.00
sn          aw    MW    OLM      MOD   0.00   aOD    0.00   MOD   0.00    aw    am    O.OQ    O.W   QOD   400    000   000   MW    0.00   000   000   0.00   090   Om              0.00   ago   0.00
v=          Qw    0.00   Qw      aw    aw    CLOD    0.00   aco   SOD    aCO   am    0.00    MOD   MW    0.00   IDLOO   900   MW    000   000   0.00   000   Om   qxao             0.00   0.00   OLOO
aw    aoo   CLOD    CLOD   QW    0.00    COD   000   QIDD    0.00   000   MOD    MW    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   MOD   Q.W   0.00   0.00   aloo   QOD        000   0.00   0.100



OmAlA  pOIIER VPRIIECT
1991                  199n152                199a93                1993494               1894155                'g9r9               4995097              4s744                    70O1
1o194_     TOW0    0400    *       o        oW _ TW                o    _     241      Lo            0       LoW      W FM"  a'         "on   am4.   LoW            T a        LOW __-l    Total
|               thil   F      Tclst   taat   f       T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Loal    Io* F-I   LTd!    t!! F-  ToD  lt Fol  ToldWFl Tll                   S!1!         T    cc             ct         tFd 
cc          0.00    ooo   000      000   0.00   000      0o0    000   000       0.38 3e  2   399    0o.    0.00   000       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0e0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.35   3.62   3g
PC          O.O   0.o   0.00       000 o0.00   oo        000  0e00   0.00       0.04   O      0.40    0.00   000   o.O 0     .00    0 .00   0.00   0.00 0.00   O.0   0.00   0.00   0.00   oo0  0.04   0.38   0.40
StI         000   0.00   0.00      000   0.00   0.00    0OO   0.00   0.00       04D   *93   4.3       0.00  0O.O   000      000   0OO    0.00   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00        04 0   3.9   4.30
PRC         0.00   000   0.00      0.0o   000   0.00     0.00   00    000       0.13  0e9    1.11     0.00   000   000      0.00   000   0OO 0.00   0.00   0.00   C.0   0.00   0.00           0.13   O.SB   t.t1
ST2        0o.oow    o             00    000 0o.o  ooo   0.00 oo .O    0.00     052   4.95   S49       oR   0e00   0.00     000   0.00   o.oo   0.00   000   0.00   0.00   O.OD 0.O           0.02   4.98   S.49
BC          0.O0   0.00   0.00     000  0e00   0.00    0o       309   309       1.70  2938  3000      1.34   309   4.42    0e9   0.00   O.9   0.45   7.0   0.45   045   0.o0   045            4.02  34 4   3929
-C          0C.0   0.00   0.00     0.ao   0.0   0.00     0.00   0.48   0.48     024   4.08   4.30    O0M    0.46   0.6      0.13   0.00   013   007   0.00   0.07   0.07   000   0.07         0.70   4.99   570
ST7         000   0CO    0.00      0oo    0.00   o.0     0.00   355   a.55      1.93  3237  3430      1.54   3ss   so0      4.03   0.00 o  .03   0.54   o.oO   0.54   ost   0.00   0.54       5.52  39.47  44.99
PRC         0.C0    0O.   0.00     00   000   o.o0      0.o0 0.60    0         0.63   9.04   963     0.60   4.c0   1.68    047   0.00   047   027   oo0   0.27   0.31   0.00   0.58          z2.   9.76  12.31
*s2         0.Q0   0.00   0.00     000   0oo   0.00      coD   422   422        ZS8  40.38  4294      2.14   4.63   6.76    I.50   o.0o   4.50   0.79   0.00   0.79   0.02   000   0.02       7.0  49.23  57.03
C. D0154UIFD9N
Bc          0.00   0.00   000    0e00    oo    0o0       0OD   974   9.74       4.3  20.23  338       c94   9.74  1669      o.a0oeoo   0.0o   O.0   0.   0.00   0.00   0.00   000            1157  43.72  60.20
PC          0.0o   000   0.00      0.a   0.00   000      0.00   1.49   1.48     0.89   4.39   5.00    4.04   1.48   zs5     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000 .o0o   0.00   0.00   0.00         1.74   731   9.04
sn7         000  o0o   0.00    0o0    0.00   0.00        0.00  44.21  4221      532  3362  39.94      7.93  4121    .19o9 000   0.00   0.0o 000   0.00   O..0 0.00   0.00   0.0              12.31  S.3  69.a3
PRC         O 000   0.00   0.0     0.00   0.00   00      000   2.13   2.13      1.72   032  1004      3.s1   .41  68 1      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   .O0   0.00       403  43.98  169
s72         0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   000   o.o0     0.00  4334  4334       7.04  4193  48.99    41.09  4468  2574      0.00   000   0.0o   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0 o.0   0.0      914  89.699  8o2
C. 900r40IOlw
se          eae   0.00 0.0    00    co    0.00   o.o.     0.04   1.09   4.13    0.00      45   4.51   0.04   1.09   4.13    0.      00 0.oe   0.00    .00   000   o.o0   0.00   0.0           0.14    .3   3.77
PC          0.00    0.00    000     0.00    0 o 0.0o     001   0.86  0.47       0.01   022   0.23     004   016   0.47      0.00   0.00   o.0o   0.00   0.00   o.0   0.00  o00    0.00        e02   0.54   0561
ST3         o0o   0.00   000       000   00o   0.00      0.0c   427   4.30      006       a7   * 73   0.0c   1.5 25   1.30  0oo   000   o.co   0.00   0oo   0o   0.00   0.00   0.00           0.16   4.47   4.33
PRC         CA.     oo 0   oe0    000 0o00   000         0.04   0.24   027      002   041   0.43      002   020   0.40    0.00   000   0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00   o0   o.0o          0e09   4.03   1.00
812         000   0.00   0.00      00    0.0   0.00      0.06   4.49   1.55     009   zo0   2.47    o00    1.63   470       000   o.o0   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   000         0.21   s20   8.44
SC          000   0.00   0.00    0e0    000   .OO        0.00   042   0.42      0o0    1.04   1.04    0.00   000  o00       oo0   000   0.00   o.o0   000   000 O.00   000   0.00             000   4.15   4.15
PC          000   0.00  0e00       oo    000   0.00       o.o0  0.04   001      000   040   0.40      000o 000   000        000   0.00   000   0.00   00    0.00   000   0.0o   0.00          000   0.12   0.42
s87         0.00   0.00   0.00     000   O0    0.00      o.o0   0.43   0.13    0.0D   1.14   114      000   000   000       0.00   0.00   0.00   .0O   0.00   0.co    0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   1.27   1.27
P44C       0e00   0.00  0e00       000   0       0.00    000   0.02   0.02      000   0.20   020      oo0   o.0o   0.00     0.00   0.00   000   0.00   000   000   0.00   0.00   0.00         000   0.34   0.34
ST2         0.00   000   0.00      000   0.00   000      0.00   0.5   0.45      0.00   4.42   1 42    0.00   0.00   000     0.00   0.00   0.00   0o0    O.o  O.   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.00   4.57   4.57
Tak0
B^          O.00   0.00   000      000O  0e00   000      o0l    021   022       004   021 0t   7      0.01   0.24   0.22    0.01   0.24   0.22   0.04   0.00   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.04   0.02   0.69
K'          eD.eo   e90 0.400      000   000   e.43    Q40   .102   0.02        000   002   @02       0.00   .02   017     000   0.02   0.02   00   -.Q   00    COO   ..009 O.0                0   ..00   400
Sri         000   0.00  0e00       o.0o   0e00   0.      0.04   023   0.24      0.04   0.23   024     0.01   0.23   0.24    0.04   023   0.24   004   0.00   0.01   000   0.00   0.00         0.04   0.94  009
PRC         0.00   000 0o00        000   000   0.00      00o   004   0.05    o00    006   0r,    000   0.07   007           0.00   0.e9   0.09   000   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.02   0.36   0.20
s2          000   0.00 0o00        000   000   0.00      0.e1   025   029       004   020   O3D       0.04   0.34   0.12    0.04   032   0.34   0.04   0.o0   0.01   000   000   0.co         000   4.20   125
tC         400    0.00  o000       0.00   0      0.00 e   .0e   1.42   4.47     0O.    Z70   276      0.0C   4.3D   4.5     0.04   0.21   022   0.04   o0     0.04   0.00   0.00   0.0        0.10   5.63   5.61
PC          0.00   0.00   000      000   000   0.00      0.01   0.20   0.20     004   0.34   0.35    0.04   0.49   049      0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.09   0.00   oo0       0.02   0.74   0.77
ST1         000   0.0o  0.00       0.00   0CA    0.00    008   1.61   1.87      0.07   3.04   142     005   1.49  4.54      0.01   023   0.74   0.04   0.00   0.04   0.00   0.00   000        0.20   6.38   6s5
PRC         0.00   0.0o   000       OD   000   0.00      0.01   0.31   032      0.02   0.13   0.Q7    0.02   0.45   0.R     0.00   009   0.09   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    .00   0.OD       0.07   4.00   467
s52         000   0.0    000 0Q00   000   0.00           0.07   1.92   4.09     0.10   3e0   3.99     0.00   4.94   2.02    0.94   0.32   0.34   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.27   7.09  8.20
TOTALPFOWER                                                            064                   1.25                  0 63                   0.14                000                                          2.64
BC          0.0    0.00   0.00     067   3.0   4.47    IQ27  26  39.09         s5.77 121.03 45b8.0    3721 404.OS 141.2    26319  8742   3a0  8.38  15.74  24.12   3.72   4.87   9.s        1222t 348.3B  4B.SB
-C         0.00   0.00   .0 0     0 87   038   0.45     4.40   4.4   251       519  486.13  2492     5.36  42.5  43.24     3.63   8.3  11.77   1.25   230   2.5s   0.58   0.70   1.25       145  4521  62z.
571         D.0   0.00   0.00      0.74   4.1B   4.92    11.63  3377  45.44    40.95  137.77 179.72    42.57  116.91 15947    29.82  75.55 105.37   9.63  19.04  27.67   4.27   5.28   9.65  3396G 34.59 5431.2
PRC         eoo   0Q00   0.00      0.42   0.44   0.5Q    2.97   6.43   940    I3.2  34.02  47.33    4W   25.50  52.15    13.69  231  42z.   5213   7.97  430    2.60   277   S.3            54.35  1455ss  170.47
sT2         000   0oo    0.00      0.W   4.02   5.49   14.68  48.20  54.94    54.20 471.00 128.04    59.15 152.47 271.62    43.51  c05. 147.37  14.75  25.01  40.7   60.7   9.14  15.02     19404  507.14 701.T5
4n409m             0.00   0.00   0.00    0.30   1.00   4.SD     4.2  13.49  1S48    17.92  80.0t  7423    1933  49.03  09.16    44.13  J3.72  47.0   4.75   9.38  43.13   2.20   2.60   4.0        63.54 160.42 2200



-  82  -                                                       ANNox4.
- 82                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 7 of7
INLTO&O                1007    1988   t9S0     9      1091   1002                   1L      1e      10 109i   g r8 1000   2000
Intern. Inilatin  560   7.30  -0.70      6.00   6.00     1.80   1.80   4.20   4.20    4.20   4.20   4.20     4.20   3.20
Domne. fnflation    20.00  31.40  t5.70    11.00   9.00   0.00  5.00   5.00   6.00     6.00   6.00   8.00    6.00   6.00
iOE(Kw/lU.S1      Z23   2.50   2.70      2.73   2.83    .08    3.00   3.05   3.07      3.09   3.12   3.14    3.17   3.10
Cscallation                   Locat                 Foreign                                                 FV     ROE
FYt8i89                                                                                           88189      2.58
FVB9100                  0.00                                                                     89190       2.76
FYO/S9i                  0.17                   0.09       PrIe aonUng.ncfsc                      00/91       2.78
t-VoVs2                  0.26                  0.12        Include eUfeol of                      91192       2.00
FY9V23                   0.32                   0.14       exchange *at, from                     92193       Z9B
FV310/4                  0.39                   0.18      mnid-IMg on thie                        9394        3.03
P19W05                   0.45                   0.23       MKw oha foralgn                        94186      3.08
P195/08                  0.83                  0.25        exchange esdmates                      9519S      3.08
i19V8/7                  0.81                   0.33                                              98/97       3.11
FV97/0I                  0.69                   0.3S                                              97198       D.13
FV9I199                  0.77                   OA5                                              g9m/0       3.15
FVOR92000                0.80                   0.b0                                              99/20O0    3.18
4. IMPLEJ0IATIO# RATE
90191  91/92  92193   63/4   94W9 98   0897
1900   101    92    1003    1904   1095    19008   1097   1t5    1C09    20i00
1. Accecess d
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.10   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
F                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.10   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Z Main civil works
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.34   0.25   0.20    0.10   0.05
F                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.34   0.26   0.28    0.10   0.05
0. Calse. Pensbooks
L                 0.00   0.00   0.10     0.20   0.b0   O.16    0.05
F                0.00   0.00   0.10      0.20   0.80   O.16    0.06
4. Turbine,
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.40   0.65    0.06
F                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.20   0.32   0.43    0.06
a Generators
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.40   0.56    0.06
F                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.20   0.32   0.43    0.05
8. Power crane
L                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.20   0.76   0.05
F                0.00   0.00   0.15      0.45   0.30   0.10
d. Auxiliarles EM
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
F                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
7. Swltch gera r.
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.09   0.42   0.44    O.05
F                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.08   0.03   0.20     0.05
8 Transmlselon
0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.28   0.07    0.05
0    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.70   0.25     0.05
0. GCWA A PLC
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.08   0.34    0.08
F                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.10   0.58    0.05
10. Relocation
L                0.00   0.00   0.b0      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
f                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
II. Ensineerling
L                0.00   0.12   0.10      0.23   0.23   0.21    0.03
F                 0.00   0.12   0.15     0.2    0.23   0.21    0.03
12. Gentraton Rihabilltion
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   1.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
F                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.20   0.80   0.00    0.00   0.00
10. Tranomlseln fb nlorcotmen
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.30   0.30   0.20    0.10   0.10
F                 0.00   0.00   0.10     0.00   0.10   0.00    0.00   0.00
SOADA Llongw
L                0.00   0.00   0.00      1.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
F                 0.00   0.00   0.00     1.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
12. Oistribution Relnlorcemant
L                 0.00   0.00   0.00     0.40   0.80   0.00     0.00   0.00
f                0.00   0.00   0.20      0.80   0.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
13. c4ncultancy
L                 0.00   0.0o   0.30     0.40   0.230   0.00    0.00   0.00
p                0.00   0.00   0.30      0.40   0.30   0.00     0.00   0.00
14. Computere
L                0.00   0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
p                0.00   0.00   0.10      0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
1 Traning
L                 0.00   0.00   0.20     0.20   0.20   0.20     0.20   0.00
F                 0.00   0.00   0.25     0.28   0.25   0.25     0.00   0.00



- 83 -
ANNEX 4.4
MALAWI
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Summarv of Prolect Imolementation Schedule
Target
Bid         Contract   Completion
Prolect Item                Bidding         Ooenina      Award      Date
A. KAPICHIRA
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1 Access Road              8/92           10/92       1/93        9/93
1.2 Dam & Power House        10/92          2/93        6193        10/96
1.3 Gates, Penstocks         10192          2/93        6/93        5/96
2. ELECTROMECHANICAL
2.1 Power Crane              10/92          1/93        4/93        2/95
2.2 Turbines                 10/92          1/93        4/93        6/97
2.3 Generators               10/92          1/93        4/93        6/97
3. SUBSTATIONS
3.1 Switchg'gr & tr          12/92          2/93        5/93        6/97
3.2 TransmIssion             12/92          2/93        5/93        6/97
3.3 Scada & PLC              12/92          2/93        5/93        6/97
4. ENGINEERING                8/91           11/91        2/92       12/97
B. GENERATION REHAB                          6/92        8/92        4/96
C. TRANSMISSION REINF         3/92           6/92        8/92        4/96
D. DISTRIBUTION REINF         5/92           7/92        8/92        5/95
E. INSTITUTIONAL STR
Consultancy                 2/92           4/92        5/92        5/94
Computers                   8/92           10/92       7/92        4/94
4/96
F. NON-POWER
Household energy            9/92           11/92       2/93        8/94
Expert servIces
G. Petroleum
supply                                                  4/93       2/94
H. Energy
officIency                                              2/93       2/95



- 84 -
ANNEX 4.5
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
IDA CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year                Quarterly               Cumulative
and Quarter                   Dlsbursement           Disbursement
Value     Percent
FY 92
September 30,1991
December 31,1991
March 31,1992
June 30,1992                      0.60                   0.60         1.09
FY 93
September 30,1992                 1.00                    1.60        2.91
December 31,1992                  2.50                   4.10         7.45
March 31,1993                     2.25                   6.35        11.55
June 30,1993                      2.15                    8.50       15.45
R=_94
September 30,1993                 2.58                   11.08       20.15
December31,1993                   2.85                   13.93       25.33
March 31,1994                     3.75                   17.68       32.15
June 30,1994                      4.40                   22.08       40.15
FY95
September 30,1994                 4.50                  26.58        48.33
December 31,1994                  4.39                  30.97        56.31
March 31,1995                     3.75                  34.72        63.13
June 30,1995                      2.75                   37.47       68.13
FY 96
September 30,1995                 2.95                  40.42        73.49
December 31,1995                  2.85                  43.27        78.67
March 31,1996                     3.01                  46.28        84.15
June 30,1996                      2.95                  49.23        89.51
FY' 97
September 30,1996                 1.25                  50.48        91.78
December 31,1996                  1.20                  51.68        93.96
March 31,1997                     1.15                  52.83        96.05
June 30,1997                      0.82                   53.65       97.55
Fmm
September 30,1997                 0.30                  53.95        98.09
December 31,1997                  0.50                  54.45        99.00
March 31,1998                     0.55                   55.00      100.00
June 30,1998                      0.00
The Closing Date Is June 30,1998
*I PPF disbursement



- 85 -
ANNEX 4.6
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
MONITORING GUIDELINES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Guidelines for monitoring performances on project implementation
have been discussed with ESCOM and Government organs. These guidelines
include a series of target dates in the Implementation Schedule of the
Project (Annex 4.4). forecasts against actual results would be closely
monitored by IDA for, among others, the following:                         0
(a)   preparation of TOR, invitation and contract award for
consultants;
(b)   issue of bid documents, bid closing, contract award;
(c)   progress of construction and installation of equipment;
(d)   project cost estimates and financing;
(e)   electricity sales and number of consumers by categories;
(f)   electricity generation, hydro and thermal;
(g)   system losses (% of net generation);
(h)   installed capacity; hydro and therrmial;
'i)   firm capacity and generation capability;
(j)   periodic forecast for sales and generation;
(k)   transmission and distribution facilities;
(1)   planned and unplanned outages and their duration for power
plants; transmission and distribution systems;
(m)   total and specific revenue from electricity sales by
category;
(n)   number of days of receivables;
(o)   number of employees per consumer;
(p)   self-generated funds contributed to investment;
(q)   debt-equity ratio;
(r)   debt service coverage;
(s)   audited accounts and annual activity reports.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 1 of 9
NALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
KAPICHItRA ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY
IntroducLtion
1.    Malawi derives an overwhelming bulk of its energy from biomass and
hydropower sources. In 1989, woodfuel accounted for approximately 94% of
the country's energy supply with petroleum (3.8%), electricity (1.6%) and
coal (1%) accounting for the remainder. It has been estimated that the
remaining 4 million hectares of forests are being depleted at nearly 3.5
percent per annum. The most severe deforestation is taking place in the
southern region where population densities are highest and have been
exacerbated by the influx of 800,000 refugees fleeing from Mozambique.
2.    Hydropower development is concentrated on the Shire River, the
natural outfall of Lake Malawi. Installed generating capacity on the river
is 144 megawatts (MW).   It has been estimated that the river has a
potential hydropower capacity of 500 MW.  This potential includes the
proposed generating facility at Kapichira Falls in Chikwawa District as a
part of the World Bank Power V Project. Kapichira Falls is designed as a
5 x 25 MW facility so that generation of 125 MW can be achieved in phased
increments.
3.    Electricity is supplied by the Electricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (ESCOM) including construction, operation and maintenance of all
generating plants in the country.   ESCOM will be responsible for the
constructicn and operation of the Kapichira Scheme.
Project Description
4.    Malawi began developing hydropower on the Shire River in 1966/67
with the installation of a 24 MW (3 x 8 MW) plant at Nkula Falls followed
by an additional 80 MW (4 x 20 MW) at the same site. In 1973, ESCOM began
a phased generation schedule of development of the Tedzani Falls station
with 2 x 10 MW units followed by a 1 x 10 MW unit in 1976 and the last 1
x 10 MW unit in 1977.
5.    A least cost generation study by TANS Engineering Consultants in
1985 analyzed four Shire River sites at Kholombidzo, Tedzani III,
Mpatamanga and Kapichira Falls. Kholombidzo and Kapichira were judged to
be equal environmentally by TAMS and the consultants recommended that
Kapichira be constructed first.
6.    Kapichira Falls generating facility would consist of installing five
25 MW units in two phases, initially two for commissioning by 1997
followed by the remaining three units about the turn of the century
(1999/2000). Kapichira would be a run-of-river plant with no seasonal
storage and with less than 3% flood control. An llm meter high dam would
inundate approximately 200 ha of unoccupied land.   During the EA, a



- 87 -
ANNEX 4.7t
Page 2 of 9
possible discrepancy was found in the survey of the proposed reservoir and
the area to be inundated may have been overestimated. The dam would be
constructed upstream of the falle and water would be diverted to a power
waterway system consisting of a open concrete channel and two 6.2 meter
diameter power tunnels to the powerhouse approximately 450 meters
downstream of the dam. The design creates a gross head of 61 meters for
power development. The spillway, consisting of seven 13 x 13 m radial
gates has a design capacity of 8,900 cubic meters per second (cumecs)
which would assist in maintaining the intake area free of sediment
deposits. Trash racks and booms would be provided to safeguard the intake
channel.
7.    The powerhouse with space for five 25 MW Francis turbines will be
located in a deep, open-cut excavation downstream of the falls. Water
discharges would be conveyed by a 22 meter-wide open tailrace channel to
the main river channel.
8.    The dam and the spillway structure will be constructed on a natural
rock shelf which will require little excavation and use of concrete. The
spillway capacity is sufficient to pass the maximum probable flood of
8,900 cumecs without infringing on the 2 meter freeboard above the normal
maximum power pool.
9.    In order to provide access to the east side of the river, a bridge
will be constructed over the river just downstream of the powerhouse site.
The bridge will be constructed at an elevation of 1.5 meters over the
estimated one hundred year flood.
10.   A  construction  camp will  be  built west  of  the  Shire River
approximately four kilometers south of the dam and it will border Majete
Game Reserve. Access will be from the south on a partially-realigned and
up-graded existinG road. In addition, two areas south of the camp will be
available to the general contractors for staff and workshops. This area
will require construction of a new accees road linking the contractors
camp with the construction area. The camp facility will consist of 22
family houses, 12 apartment-style residences, offices, swimming pool, two
tennis courts and one squash court. A sewage collection system, primary
sewage treatment system and a water treatment plant will service the
construction and camp areas. Potable water supply will be drawn from the
Shire River. The camp is expected to occupy an area of approximately 600
ha. After construction, the camp will be used by ESCOM to provide housing
for opera'ion and maintenance staff of the generating facility.
Proiect Area
11.   Rapichira Falls is located 40 km southeast of Blantyre, the largest
city in Malawi and headquarters for ESCOM. The project erea is on or very
close to the southern border of the 78,000 ha Majete Game Reserve on the
west bank of the Shire River and less than 100 ha of this reserve could be
lost in reservoir inundation. The lO,OOO ha Blantyre City Forest Fuelwood
Reserve is located on the east bank and up to 100 ha of this reserve could
be lost by inundation.   Owing to the protected areas involved,  no



- 88 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 3 of 9
involuntary resettlement of human populations will be necessary.   At
present, access to the. project site is via a poorly maintained road
leading to the game reserve.
12.   The project area is within the great trough which forms the Shire
River Valley and the highland walls of the eastern and western sides. In
common with the Luangw& and Zambezi Rifts, the development of the Nyasa
(Malawi) Rift is a result of a long history of intermittent uplift and
erosion with intervening periods of peneplanation and sedimentation. The
area is poorly endowed with minerals of economic interest.   The area
experiences tectonic activity with earthquakes being recorded up to 6.8 on
the Richter  Scale.   Accordingly,  the dam  design has  taken likely
earthquake activity into account.
13.   The Shire Valley experiences a "wet" season from November to March
with a mean annual rainfall of 902 millimeters (mm) and a "dry" season
from June to October. Rainfall is variable sea6bnally and annually with
an annual range from 710 to 1,774 mm. Mean maximr.Lm temperature in the dry
months vary from 28 to 35 degrees C. The mear, annual evaporation rate
since 1977 at Chikwawa is 1,855 mm.
14.   Malawi has been recording hydrological data from the Shire River
since 1897 and currently has an extensive network of hydrological stations
in the basin. The flow of the river consists of two major components;
outflow from Lake Malawi and the flow from the drainage basin downstream
of the lake. Outflow from the lake is the dominant component providing
between 40 to 80% of the river flow even in the wet season. During the
dry season, lake outflow accounts for virtually all of the river flow.
Lake outflow shows historic variability as evidenced by nearly zero flows
during the period between 1917 and 1935. During the past few decades,
river flows have been very high. For instance, between 1975 and 1985,
average annual outflow from Lake Malawi has been 653 cumecs. Successful
operation of Kapichira requires an average flow of not less than 170
cumecs.
15.   Lake control measures have been in place since 1965 when the Kamazu
Barrage was completed near Liwonde close to the lake outfall. The barrage
is currently operated under an agreement between ESCOM and the Water
Department following operating curve rules suggested from several sources.
16.   Water quality data are scant and only recently collected.  Ri-ver
water is rich in dissolved nutrients with moderately high hardness and
alkalinity. Water Ph data show a slight alkalinity at 7.54. Dissolved
oxygen concentrations are high given the aeration provided by numerous
falls and rapids marking the river's transit between Lake Malawi and the
downstream marshes in extreme southern Malawi.   The disrolved oxygen
concentration drops quickly as the water passes through the 60,000 ha
ElephauL ;iarsh domnatream of Kapi chira probably due to decomposition of
organic material in the marsh.
17.   Although the water is clear as it leaves Lake Malawi, suspended
solids (primarily silt) increase quickly to the point of causing problems



- 89 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 4 of 9
with the cooling water systems at the existing power generating stations.
Mea urements at Tedzani in January 1991, show a range of suspended solids
between 83 and 1,521 mg/l with most samples exceeding 200 mg/l.  Soil
erosion is a serious problem in the Shire River Basin. As a run-of-river
generating station, the silt is not expected to be a serious problem in
the Kapichira reservoir, but will pose similar problems to the generating
machinery as is in other upstreamn stations.
18.   Elephant Marsh is a highly productive fishery with an annual yield
reaching 5,000 tonsO in good years from small-scale and subsistence
fishing. Fish yields have declined in recent years and fishing effort has
also declined (fewer fishermen). Several variables have been suggested as
possible reasons for this decline. Water levels in the marsh have become
more stable which may have contributed to reduced spawning habitat. Water
hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) has recently invaded the marsh and has
quickly spread with floating mats up to 300 m in diameter to become a
serious nuisance to fishermen.  A large crocodile population has also
discouraged fishing as crocodile-human incidents increased in recent
years. The primitive fishing methods invo'ving hand cast nets and long
lines makes the fishermen quite vulnerable to crocodile attacks.
19.   With the proximity of the 78,000 ha Majete Game Reserve and the
10,000 ha Blantyre City Forest Fuelwood Reserve, wildlife is plentiful in
the project area.   The game reserve boasts the fifth largest elephant
population in Malawi with a relatively stable population of about 100
individuals. Recent surveys indicate that the population is declining,
perhaps as a result of poaching or habitat loss outside the game reserve.
The Shire River is one of the very few reliable water sources for the
elephants and they are known to use the area immediately adjacent to the
proposed dam site for feeding and watering. The reserve also provides
habitat and protection for Sable Antelope, Greater Kudu and waterbuck
along with other smaller herbivores. Malawi places high priority on the
preservatic,r of waterbuck populations. Over 300 bird species havE been
recorded in the area (mostly from nearby Lengwe National Park) and the
threatened Rock Pratincole (Glareola nuchalis) uses the rapids near the
falls as an incubating subs' trate.   Similar habitat is located both
upstream and downstream of the proposed site. Hippos occupy parts of the
river with the largest population found in Elephant Marsh. It is likely
that hippos would be quick to favor the more placid waters of the proposed
reservoir.
20.   Extensive botanical surveys of the project area have not been
conducted, but the riverine area includes a relatively intact gallery
forest in the reservoir zone as well as above and below the proposed
reservoir. Forest surveys are being conducted on the east side of the
river as a part of the fuelwood project. A survey of the trees in the
zone to be inundated was conducted as a part of the EA and it was
estimated that between 18,000 and 24,000 trees will be lost.
21.   The falls are a major zoogeographic barrier for fish, separating the
dowmstream lower Zambezi fish fauna from the Lake Malawi fish fauna.  This
barrier is important in maintaining a separation of the highly endemic



- 90 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 5 of 9
species of Lake Malawi from the dow,nstream species.  The daraj would not
decrease the value of this barrier but would reinforce the separation.
22.   Human populations are dispersed between numerous small villages
along the present access road which is nearly impassable during the wet
season.   This area is densely populated and the population growth is
higher than the national population growth rate of 3.7% per annum. The
problem is worsened by an influx of nearly 800,000 refugees from
Mozambique to southern Malawi, many living close to the project area. A
large refugee camp on the northern border of Majete Game Reserve is
increasing pressure on the natural resources (fuelwood and wildlife) of
the reserve.
23.   During the environmental assessment (EA), meetings were held in
three villages close to the project site. The majority of the people at
the meetings were aware of the proposed project, but had never been
directly or systematically informed by ESCOM. A large majority expressed
beliefs of increased economic opportunities arising from the project,
mostly in the area of construction employment or increased business
opportunities. The people did not perceive benefits in improved housing
or access to markets.   The people also did not believe that access to
electricity would be a factor in project development.
24.   During the EA, local NGOs were invited to participate in meetings at
various levels. Most NGOs were obliged to limLt their participation owing
to a lack of funds unless the EA team could cover their expenses for
attending meetings or participating in field studies. The government was
able to provide a small amount for funds to cover NGO expenses at EA
meetings.   At least one NGO offered assistance to ESCOM to assist in
working with local populations during project implementation.
25.   Inadequate health care is a serious problem in the project area as
evidenced by an infant mo)rtality rate in Chikwawa District of 205 per
1,000 which is higher than the national average (151/1,000) and the
average  for Sub-Saharan Africa  of  106/1,000.    Admissions  data  for
hospitals in the Southern Region show the following reasons for admittance
(in decreasing order of frequency); malnutrition, diarrhea, anemia,
malaria, measles, pneumonia and tuberculosis. The prevalence of AIDS is
thought to be increasing with over an 18% HIV infection rate in one study
of blood donors screened between January and August 1989 in Chikwawa
District.
26.   Schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis are present in the project area,
but are not considered to be serious by health officials, at least not as
serious as other reported diseases.
27.   Within Chikwawa District, there are three hospitals, ten health
centers, three dispensaries, six clinics, 12 health posts, one maternity
center, one public health center and 42 outreach clinics to serve a
population of 314,000 people (1987 data).



- 91 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 6 of 9
Probable Project Impacts
28.   Land loss will be limited to approximately 200 ha of 88,000 ha
protected wildlands for the reservoir and 600 ha of unoccupied land for a
construction yard and labor camp. No involuntary resettlement of human
populations will be required with the possible exception of some
relocation during access road realignment and construction of the
transmission line from Kapichira to Tedzani (para. 43).
29.   No significant health impacts are expected as the reservoir will not
create conducive habitat for mosquiros or bilharzia snails. Increased
economic development associated with dam construction may reduce the
economic factors contributing to malnutrition and water supplies will be
improved.   One exception could be a significant  increase  in AIDS.
Sexually-transmitted diseaaes are a rnormal factor in large construction
projects owing to higher wages and an influx of a younger, more sexually
active population. In past projects, contractor's clinics were able to
control venereal diseases with availability of health post staff and the
diseases could be treated with relatively inexpensive antibiotics. AIDS
will not respond to, nor be controlled with health care or medicines at
this time, thus it will require the contractor to aggressively pursue a
health education program for the labor force.
30.   Plant and 'animal life will be lost (200 ha) or disturbed.   The
elephant population will be unable to use the construction site for a
watering point as they do at present. This disruption will be temporary
and the elephants will be able to use protected upstream areas as an
alternative.   Following construction, it is expected that the wildlife
will return to the immediate project area and will benefit from the larger
aquatic area created by the reservoir.  The threatened Rock Pratincole
will lose nesting and feeding habitat immediately above the dam while
areas below the dam should not be affected.   Hippo and crocodile
populations are likely to benefit from the reservoir. Avifauna in general
will benefit from the creation of a 200 ha reservoir.
31.   Fish movements will not be altered,  nor should there be any
significant changes in the Elephant Marsh fishery.  To a small degree,
fishing will be improved in the reservoir due to improved fish habitat.
However, ESCOM should not permit the introduction of any exotic fish
species into the reservoir for any reason.
31.   Water Hyacinth is present in downstream areas and could eventually
become established in the reservoir. However, swift water movement and
frequent drawdowns are not conducive to the spread of this water weed. It
is not likely that waterweeds will pose an environmental threat to the
operation of the facility.
32.   The short retention time in this basically run-of-river reservoir
will not alter water quality.   Anaerobic decomposition will not be a
factor in reservoir operation. Powerhouse wastes, such as lubricants and



- 92 -             ANNEX 4.7
Page 7 of 9
solvents, will be controlled and will not be discharged into the tailrace
channel.
33.   While the project itself will not increase watershed erosion, there
is an existing erosion problem which could adversely affect the operation
of the generating machinery. The design of the dam will help to remove
sediments during heavy flows thereby reducing the adverse effects of
reservoir sedimentation.
34.   Downstream hydrology will only be slightly affected during dry
season flows. Elephant Marsh will still receive annual floods, but of a
slightly lower magnitude.  Dry season flows will be more stable which
might be slightly detrimental downstream fisheries. The presence of two
upstream hydropower stations indicates that run-of-river stations have
been operating on the Shire River without serious ill effects on
downstream fisheries.
35.   Improved  access  to Majete  Game  Reserve  may  increase  tourism
especially if some of the construction camp infrastructure can be retained
for tourism Aevelopment. Since the access road will end at the reserve
boundary, it is not expected to contribute to increased poaching.   If
tourism increa,zes, the net effect could be reduced poaching as a result of
an enlarged guard and ranger force.
36.   Borrow pits have been identified within the game reserve and these
will create additional disturbance to wildlife populations of a temporary
nature. With some precaution and eventual restoration, this disturbance
can be kept at an acceptable level.
37.   Given the employment opportunities during construction, there will
be an influx of laborers and secondary economic activities, such as shops,
restaurants and camp merchants. While providing local economic benefits,
these can be short-term and have deleterious side-effects, such as
increased alcohol consumption, sexually-transmitted diseases and local
crime. ESCOM has a good record of not allowing the adverse aspects of
construction "boom-town" conditions to become established.   There is
little evidence of adverse social effects at the former construction sites
at Nkula and Tedzani.
Recommended Mitigation Measures
38.   ESCOM can mitigate most of the adverse consequences of construction
by insisting on strict environmental protection clauses in the
contractor's construction contracts.  The company must insist that the
contractor respond quickly to any increased erosion caused by construction
activities rather than wait to restore conditions at the end of the
construction period. Access road erosion must be kept in check with sound
engineering design and implementation. If erosion happens to occur, the
contractor must fix it immediately or be subject to financial penalties.
39.   The contracts should have sufficient wildland protection clauses.
Employees should be subject to immediate dismissal for poaching or



93 -           ANNEX 4.7
Page 8 of 9
harassing wildlife or unduly damaging native vegetation, especially in the
protected areas. Borrow pits which represent threats to wildlife should
be fenced or patrolled by game reserve wardens. The borrow pits should be
restored to natural contours and revegetated with native vegetation as
soon as they are no longer in use. Access roads should also be protected
with natural vegetation and adequate drainage so as not to permit soil
movement into the Shire River.
40.   Since wildlands of special interest will be lost, the World Bank
Wildlands Policy requires compensatory actions for the loss. ESCOM will
need to meet with the Department of Wildlife and National Parks to agree
upon a suitable compensation.   This compensation need not be limitbd
solely to adding an equivalent amount of land to the Majete Game Reserve
or other national park, but could include institutional strengthening for
park protection or retaining some of the construction camp buildings as
game reserve infrastructure.
41.   The contractor should guarantee the health of all employees with
medical screening as a pre-requisite to employment including HIV
screening.    The  contractor  should  provide  health  services  for  all
employees and their families,  including the unskilled workers.   The
contractor should engage a local NGO or private company to conduct a
health education program including material regarding transmission of AIDS
for workers and their families.
42.   ESCOM has agreed to create an in-house environmental unit as soon as
possible.   This unit will begin with one social scientist and one
environmental scientist charged with the initial task of defining the
mitigation clauses for construction firm contracts. Later, the unit should
be expanded to include technician support to assist the professionals in
conducting  field  surveys  and  environmental  supervision.         During
construction, this unit should be housed at the construction site and
provided with laboratory and rield equipment necessary for periodic
monitoring of construction activities.   This unit should be the ESCOM
liaison point with affected populations, NGOs and government agencies,
such as the Department of Wildlife and National Parks.
43.   The Government has conducted an in-house EA of the 58 km 132 kV
transmission line associated with the Kapichira Project which has been
reviewed by tho Government's consultant. The route follows closely the
route of an existing transmission line.   Some  10 families will be
resettled. ESCOM will allow cultivation along the route and no farm land
will be lost.   ESCOM will consult with the affected people and will
compensate fully their resettlement.
44.   ESCOM,  in collaboration with the Forestry Department  and  the
Blantyre City Fuelwood Project, has made arrangements to insure that all
woody vegetation will be cut and removed from the future inundation zone.
Herbicides should not be used in the clearing program except for stump
treatment to prevent re-sprouting.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4.7
Page 9 of 9
45.   ESCOM, in collaboration with the Hydrology Department, should plan
and implement a water quality monitoring program at one of the hydropower
sites, preferably at Kapichira Falls as it will be the most downstream
facility in the generating network.   The Hydrology Department and the
Fisheries Department will continue to monitor flow in the Shire River and
water levels in Elephant Marsh.
46.   ESCOM, in collaboration with the Council of Social Welfare, should
plan and implement an inexpensive system of monitoring socioeconomic
changes in the villages rnearby the construction site.   To the extent
possible, ESCOM should give preference to local labor and local vendors
during the construction period.
O7.   ESCOM has agreed to support a botanical survey by the National
Herbarium and an archeological survey by the Department of Antiquities
within the proposed reservoir area.
48.   ESCOM  has  accepted  the  recommendation  that  no  uncontrolled
settlement and unregulated land use will take place within two kilometers
of the project area and camp site. Fuelwood cutting will only be allowed
in areas identified by the Forestry Department.
49.   ESCOM will fence the camp site and project area to limit wildlife
movement into living and working areas.
Interagency Neetin s
50.   During the EA field work, two interagency meetings were held under
the joint sponsorship of the Department of E^onomic Planning and
Development (EP&D) and National Environmental Secretariat.   The first
meeting, a scoping exercise, defined the issues to be studied and assigned
responsibilities and schedules for completing the necessary work.  The
second meeting, attended by NGOs, presented the results of the EA and
sought suggestions for mitigation actions to be taken. Several excellent
proposals came out of this meeting, but mostly directed at longer-term
government actions rather than focusing on actions that ESCOM could take
to reduce potential adverse effects of constructing and operating a
hydropower  station at Kapichira Falls.    These proposals  include  a
recommendation for establishing a Shire Basin Water Management Authority,
developing a natural resource management plan for the Shire Basin
watershed, a riverine vegetation protection plan and strengthening the
Environmental Secretariat of the Department of Research and Environmental
Affairs. These proposals have considerable merit and it is foreseen that
they will be seriously considered by government. It is clear, however,
that ESCOM, the implementing institution for the Kapichira Generating
Station should take a participatory role, not a leading role in the follow
up for the basin-wide planning recommendations which emerged from the
final EA meeting.



_ 95 _
ANNEX 4.8
Page I of 3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Sunervision Plan
IDA SuDervis ion lovut
1.    The timing for supervision and the staff weeks indicated in this Annex are
tentative and will be adjusted in line with future developments.   Normal
headquarter activities on procurement, follow-up of project implementation and
other project related activities are not included in this Annex.   They are
estimated to require at least seven staff weeks during the first year, and six
ataff weeks per year during subsequent years up to project completion. The plan
does not also include missions in the event of abnormal developments during
construction.
Borrowers Contribution to Supervision
2.    Quarterly reports are to be submitted by ESCOM following project launching
until project completion. The format of the progress report will be agreed with
IDA at project launch.  Updating project costs, including cost estimates to
completion, and compiling relevant data on physical implementation will be
prepared by ESCOM prior to arrival of supervision missions, in addition to
specific requests that may be needed by visiting supervision missions.  The
Borrower will also be expected to provide a substantial input to the Project
Completion Report.



96 -
ANNEX 4.8
Page 2 of 3
PLANNED SUPERVISION INPUT
Approximate
Dates                                                                          Staff Input
MonthNear           Tvye of Activity                 3kill Reauirements        (Staffweeks)
1.   11/92          Prolect launch
- Introducing the project       Power Engineer             1 or 2
- Design status                 and Task Manager, If TM
- Reviewing Implementatlon      Is not a power engineer
schedule
- Reporting requirements
- Procurement Guidelines
- Project management
2.    5/92          Supervislon
To review progress              Engineers                  2
of project and status of        Financ!aI Analyst          1
procurement cycle. Review       Economist                  1
accounts and IPPS
3.   11/93          Supervision
To review status                Power Engineer             1 or 2
of contracts, Implementation    and Task Manager
schedules cost estimates and
financing plan
4.    4/93          Supervision
Review progress on various      Power Engineer             4
contracts, status of access     Financial Analyst
road and camp facilities.       Economist
Review demand growth, IPPS
and audited accounts, cost
estimates and financing plan
5.   11/93          Supervision
Review physical Implementation  Power Engineer and Task    2
and implementation schedules    Manager
6.    5/94          Supervision
Review progress, demand growth,    Power engineer          4
IPPS audited accounts, cost     Financial Analyst
estimates and financing plan.   Economist



- 97 -
ANNEX 4.8
Page 3 of 3
Approximate
Dates                                                                          Staff Input
MonthNear           Type of Activity                 Skill Requirements        (Staffweeks)
7.   11/94          As Item 5 above                  As Item 5 above            2
8.    4/95          As Item 6 above                  As Item 6 above            4
9.   11/95          As Item 5 above                  As item 5 above            2
10.   4/96          As Item 6 above                  As Item 6 above            4
11.   11/96         As item 5 above                  As item 5 above            2
12.   4/97          Supervision
Review progress and schedules   Power engineer             4
commissionIng. Revlew IPPS,     Financial Analyst
audited accounts and cost       Economist
estimates
13.   11/97         Supervision
Flnal supervislon misslon,      Power Engineer             2
preparatlon for PCR, final cost  Economist                 1
estimate



- 98 -
ANNEX 6.1
MALAVI
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRiCiTY SUPPLY COMMItSION OF MALAWi (ESCOM)
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FORTHE YEARS ENDING MARCH 31
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
ACTUAL                              PROJETED
199/0L1   1991192  1992/93   1194   1994195   1936/9d   1998197   1997/98   1998/99
SALES                                    GWh        600      643       707       763      802       861       926      990      1069
AVERAGETARIFF                      TambalalkW      12.69    13.63     16.16    18.98     19.01    20.44     20.44     20.44    21.97
INCREASES IN AVERAGE TARIFF                 %      9.00      7.60     12.00    12.00     12.00     7,60      0.00      0.00     7.60
OPERATING INCOME                   TambalalkW      6.07      3.36     6.16      8.30      7.92     8.22      8.18      8.10     8.22
NET INCOME                         TambalialkW     4.44      2.12     4.09      3.86      6.06     2.63      3.06      3.63     0.96
RETURN ON FiXED ASSETS IN SERVICE
REVALUED  ASIS                             S                 2.8      4.6       6.6       8.6      6.7       6.2       6.4      4.7
HISTORICAL BASIS                           %      16.1      17.8     23.9      23.9      22.6     16.8      13.1      11.8      9.7
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                   Times       1.9       2.3      2.9       2.6       2.6      1.8       1.8       1.6      1.2
SELF FINANCING RATIO                        %        33       32        23        29       26        31        44       62        33
DEST EQUITY RATIO                           %        46       27        36        44       49        60       49        48        47
RECENVABLES                              Days        66       60        60        60       60        60        60       60        60
CURRENT RATIO                           Times        1.3      1.0       1.1      0.7       0.8       1.2      1.3       1.3       1.4
1/1990/91 Is based on partially revalued assets while the remaining yearh are based on fully revalued assets.
September 13, 1991



_ 99 -
ANNEX 6.2
POWE V PROJEOT
ElECTRIU V_ SUPPLV COMMISSION OF MALAff (ESCOMM
FINANCIAL p&LJECTIONS
FORTHE VEARS ENDING MARCH31
Kwacha Million
INCOME 8TATEIMEN
ADTUAL                               PROJECTED
19943/1   1901192  1992t98   1         194    1994/98 1998t97  1997/98   1990/99
SALES (GWh)                                        600      848       707      763       802      861       926      990      1069
AVERAGE TARIFF (Tambala/kWh)                      12.69    13.63    15.61     18.98    19.01    20.44    20.44    20.44      21.97
AVERAGE TAWRFF (US Gents/kWh)                     4.39      4.87     6.09      6.60     6.21      6.64     8.67      6.63     6.95
SALES REVENUE                                    76.63    87.06   107.16   127.80    162.63   176.92    189.13   202.33   232.76
OTHER REVENUE                                     2.70      2.97     3.27      3.69     3.96     4,S6      4.78      6.26     6.79
TOTAL REVENUE                                   78.23    90.02    110,43    131.39   160.48    180.27   103.91    207.69   238.64
EXPENSES
SALARIES                                          8.61     9.3S     10.30    11.33    12.69    13.96    16.63      17.19    18.91
FUEL                                              2.29     2.69      2.94     3.28      3.67     1.66      1.64     1.77      1.89
TRANSPORT                                         3.77     4.27      4.72     6.20      6.72     6.29      6.92     7.61     8.37
REPAIRS & MAINTENANCE                             2.80     3.22      3.70     4.26     4.90      6.63     6.48      7.46     8.67
ADMINISTRATION & SUPPLY                           7.87     8.91      9.86     10.86    11,93    13.13    14.44     15.88    17.47
CORPORATE TAXES                                   0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
DEPRECIATION                                     16.57    40.10    42.61    49.03    64.03    68.09    73.13       77.64    96.24
TOTAL EXPENSES                                  41.81    68.46    '74.04    83.94    92.93    109.64    118.23   127. -l   161.46
OPERATING INCOME                                  36.42    21.58    36.39    47.46    63.66    70.73      76.68    80.16    87.09
INTEREST CHARGES                                  9.77      7.95     7.47     18.50    23.06    48.10    47.48     45.20    78.89
NET INCOME                                       28.66     13.63    28.92    28.96    40.60    22.63    28.20       34.95    10.20
i/ 190/91 Is based on partially revalued assets while the remalning years are based on tully revalued assets.



- 100 -
ANNEX 6,3
MALAV
POWER V PAROEOT
ELOTRCIM SUPPLY COMMISSmNOPmaLAI ESoo
fiNNCmumpROJECTOS
FORhE EARS ENDING MM~31
Kwaoho Million
BALANCEm SHEE
AIVAL P________ ROJECTED
lem      1001/    10M923   109194   1-094106  1096/0   1098/0   1097195   low/9
EMPLOYMENT OP FUNDS
FIXED ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION                               353.21   1M8.78   1417.12   1694.18   1800.03   2849.93   2480.84   203.20   8408.04
DEPRECIATION                                     108.44    655.00    623.38    697.96    787.16   808.79   1013.98   1142.48   1206.07
NET PLANT                                        244.77    780.88    700.73    938.23   1013.77   1463.54   1475.88   1408.82   2202.67
CAPITAL VWORK IN PROGRESS                         44.03    216.82    429.68    632.16   860.44    603.8    728.68    898.44    322.8e
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH& BANK                                         8.08     10.11    14.63      1.24    -0.61     20.77    48.41     02.87     79.01
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                               13,77     14.61    17.88     21.80    28.42     29.32    31.52     33.72     38.70
INVENTORY                                         22.41    22.91     23.41     23.91    24.41     24.01    26.41     26.01     28.41
PREPAVMEN4TS & ADVANOES                            3.88     8.99      4,39     4.63      6.31      6.86     8.43      7.07      7.78
TOTAL                                            47.89    61.62     80.19     61.28    64.63     80.84    111.77    129.67    161.099
CURRENT LtASILrITES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                                   3.68     3.12      8.49     3.88      4.31      4.37     4.84      6.38      6.97
PROJECT CREDrrORS                                 12.63    28.88     31.60    49.64     39.30     26.04    18.09     23.61     21.09
CURRENT PORTION OF LONG TERM LOANS                18.30     18.62    16.94     18.22    21.80     29.14    64.02     60.00     60.00
ACCRUED INTEREST                                   2.63      1.39     1.26      3,08     3.84      8.02      7.91     7.63     12.82
CONSUMERS' DEPOSrTS                                1.73      1.00     2.29     2.63      3.03      3.48     4.00      4.60      6.29
TOTAL                                            88.80    61.82     84.48     77.45    72.27     70.06    87.47    101.12    106.16
NET CURRENT ASSETSI(LIABILITIES)                  11.09    -.0.29     6.73   -26.17    -17.64     10.80     24,31    28.46     48.83
TOTAL FUNDS EMPLOYED                         300.79    098.41   1229.14   1842.21   1863.67   2963.20   2226.82   2429.71   2672.28
FUNDS EMPLOYED
EQUITY
CAPITAL                                            0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
RETAINED EARNINGS                                129.31    167.02    211.03    273.00    848.08    408.01    47.0.8    634.86    673.01
CAPITrAL CONTRIBUTIONS                            28.28    29.62     37.13    48.00     66.63     63.06    88.73    111.33    138.31
GRANTS: GOVERNMENT                                 0.03     0.00      0.00      0 00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0,00      0.00
OTHER                                         17.61    20.61     20.10     19.84    18.93     18.26    17.61     16.69     16.79
FIXED ASSETS REVALUATION RESERVE                   0.00    518.67    623.26    618.90   628.77   634.32    669.96    803.00    843.26
TOTAL                                           164.10    726.02    792.43    867.44    9603.28   1029.63   1143.16   1266.7   1366.37
LOANS
TOTAL                                            162.09   287.01    462.68    702.09    928.00   1067.80   1137.28   1216.95   1263.91
I.E    SHOA Rr TERM                               16.o3    10.82     16.94     18.22    21.80     29.14    64.62     60.00     60.00
LONG TERM                                        13.69    270.49    436.72    684.77    006.29   1038.66   1082.66   1168.95   1236.91
TOTAL FUNDS EMPLOYED                         300.79    998.41 129.14   1642.21   1866.67   298.20   2228.82   2428.71  2672.28
1l 1901091 Is based on pa,illay revalued assets while the remainIng years are based on fuhry revalued assets.
PREPAYMENT9 A ADVANCE3  3.63  3.9s  4,39    4.83      0,31      6.a6     6A3       7,07      7.7a~~~~~~~~



- 101 -
KlvoohALMIIIon
SOUREhE       2 APPUOEATION OF FUNS                                                                                               Tal
ATUL                                PFROJEOTED
iL  ima  1e 2  _ 1eo-o   em LO- e
SOURCE OF FUNDS
GENERATION FROM OPERATIONS
OPERATING INCOME                                30.42    21680    00.09    47.40    00.86   70.73    76.e8    80,16    87.00   395.64
DEPREOIATION                                    10.67    40.10    42.61    49.03    64,03    68e.s     70.13    77.84    00.24   406.63
CAPITAL CONTRI8UTIONS RELEASED                  -1,29    -1.42    -1.66    -1.72    -1.89    -208    -2.20    -2.61    -2.77   -10.46
GRANT FRELEASED                                 -0.42    -0.40    -0.61    -0.86    -0.81     -0.88    -0.74    -0.82    -0,90    -4.38
TOTAL                                          61.28    69.80    78.83    94,21    116.00   10a0.7    146.78   184.00   179.80   78.02
CONSUMERW DEPOSITS                               Q83      0.29    0Q30       0,34     0.09     0,46      0.62     0.80     0.60      2.87
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                            7.60     4.70      9.07    10.69    12.88    14.63    22.08    26.11    24.76    08.61
GRANTS: GOVERNMENT                               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
OTHER                                        4.09      0.6e     0.00     o.oo     o.oo     0.00      0.00     0.00    0QOO    30.0
LOANS                                           14,30   147.92   177.68   281.49   238,69   180.2    01.00   128.09   110.41   1199.88
TOTALSOURCEOFFUNDS                           78.71   210.30   263.88   306.03  3e8.46   30 .27   200.28   307.06   316.61  2087.84
APPLIOATION OF FUNDS
CONSTRUCTION EXPENDITURE
ENERGY I                                        4.09    44.68    63.68    61.46    31.14       0.00     0.00     o.oo      0.00   19080e
POWERV                                           0.00     6.80    64.88   220.21   211,81   147.41    40.82      16.01     0.00   701.44
GENERATION                                      10.43    23.73    10.92     0.00      0.00     8.08    07.13    98.34    88.86   17818
TRANSMI8SION                                    10.80    85.18    24.07    18.10      0.66     0.00     9.07    20.34    17.72   138.31
DISTRIBUTION                                    24.42    42.40    22.20    16.87    16.27    17.70    20.97    24.33    28.34    188.92
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION                            0.93    13.40    80.10    20.18    17.69      6.10     2.70     2.08      2.18    100.22
OTHER                                            0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
[DO                                              0.32     7.36    19.32    23.86    08.41    24.78    32.46    40.03    14.39   183.99
TOTAL                                          61.06   20Z23   2%4.16   861.40   312,.7   201.14   144.10   197.11    161.20  1882.9
DEBT SERVICE
REPAYMENT                                       18.67    17.02    10.62    16.94    18.22    21.80    20.14    64.02    68.27   178.20
INTEREST                                         9.77     7.98     7.47    18.60    23.00    48.10    47.48    48.20    7Q89   107.70
TOTAL                                          28.034    24.97    23.99    34.44    41.28    60.90    78.62    99.82   146.10   071.02
SUBTOTAL                                     77.39   227.20   268.14  386.90   383.96   271.04   220.76   290,93   290.44  2023.91
MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASH & BANK                                     -0.38     2.03     4.42   -13.29    -1.76    21.20    27.84      14.40    18.14    64.70
ACOOUNTS RECEIVABLE                              2.13     0.74     3.36     3A4       4.12     3.90     2.20      Z20      6.07    19.98
INVENTORY                                        7.63     0.60     0.60     0.60      0.60     0.60     0.60     0 60      0.60     3.60
PREPAYMENTS &ADVANCES                            0.88     0.36     0.40     0.        0.48     0.6a     0,68      0.84     0.71     S.4
CURRENT LIABILITIES                            -8.84   -14.64    -2.93   -20.37       9.16    10.02     8.68    -7.e8    -3.36   -17.76
TOTAL INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN WO                 1.32   -10.S0      6.74   -29.27    12.60    3023    39.61    10.12    19.07    63.93
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                   78.71   21e.30   203.88   388.63   360.46   307.27   280.28   307.06   316.61  2087.84
CASH6& BANK AT YEAR END                           8.08    10.11    14.63      1.24    -0.81    20.77    48.41    02.87    70.01
1V 1901 1Is baed on partally revalued assets while the remaInIng yeams are based on fully revalued metse.



- 102 -
ANHEX 5.
POWER V PROJEXCT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY O COMHISSION OF MALAWI
DEFINITION AND A WOR&ING EXAMPLE OF THE SELF FIYANOING RATIO
Definition
Self financing ratio is the ratio o.'
funds generated from operatiore (gross revenues minus
operating expenses excluding non cash items, such as
depreciation and contributions and grants released to
income, and interest) plus consumers' deposits and
contributions received; minus debt service; minus/plus
increase/decrease in workii',g capital other than cash, the
annual average of capital expenditure (including interest
during construction) for the current year, the previous year
and the following fiscal year.
Working eXaswle for 1993L94
Funds generated from operations:                        KHln
Operating income                                   47.46
Depreciation                                       49.03
Capital contributions & grants released            (2.28)
94.21
Consumers' deposits & contributions received             10.93
De.,t service                                     (34.44)
Decrease in working capital                        29.27
Less: Decrease in cash                            (13.29)
15.98
Internal sources                                  (A)    8
Average capital expenditure (including IDC):
Current year       (1993/94)                      361.46
Previous year      (1992/93)                      234.15
Following year    (1994/95)                       312.67
Total for three years
Average of three years                      (B)   302.76
Self financing ratio                        (A)/(B)        29



- 103 -                     ANNEX 5.6
Page 1 of 3
HALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI (ESCOM)
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Sales and Revenues
1.          Sales projections are based on ESCOM's base case scenario
given in Annex 3.1 and reviewed by the Bank. Sales by calendar year
have been time-apportioned to derive sales by fiscal year. Sales
revenues are based on yearly average tariff increases, to be introduced
at the beginning of each fiscal year, of 12% in 1992/93 through to
1994/95, and 7.5% in 1995/96 and 1998/99. No increases in tariff have
boen provided for in 1996/97 and 1997/98. For 1991/92, the actual
average tariff increase of 7.5% implemented on April 1, 1991 has been
applied. "Other" revenue is assumed to increase at an annual rate of
10% throughout.
Operatip_g Costs
2.          Salaries have been increased by 10% annually except for
1994/95 and 1996/97 when a 12% increase has been applied for each year.
Normal fuel consumption is escalated at 25% per annum to 1994/95 and 10%
thereafter. Increase in consumption is taken in 1992/93, the year prior
to the completion of Tedzani III hydro development. The diesel stations
at Karonga and Chitipa will be replaced by a 4MW hydro plant due to be
commissioned in 1995/96. Current fuel prices have been used and
adjusted for movements in exchange rates as forecast. Repairs and
maintenance cost is assumed to increase by 15% per annum from 1991/92.
Transport, and administration and supply costs are assumed to increase
each year in line with local inflation plus 5% for growth from 1991/92.
It has been assumed that no corporate taxes will arise through out due
to the unutilized tax losses at March 31, 1991 of K32 million and
further investment allowances available from the heavy investment
program planned for the future (para. 2.22)>
Depreciation
3.          New civil works for Tedzani III and Kapichira are
depreciated over 80 years after commissioning as per ESCOM's policy.
Depreciation on all other assets has been charged at 3% of the closing
revalued gross fixed assets in line with past historical average and the
rate derived on the basis of revalued assets for 1990/91.
Fixed Assets
4.          Fixed assets and accumulated depreciation have been stated
at replacement coAt on the basis of a professional valuation conducted
by ESB International Limited of Dublin. The valuation has had the
effect of increasing the historical gross value by 3.45 times and the



- 104 -
ANNEX 5.6
Page 2 of 3
historical accumulated deprecation by 4.44 times resulting in a three-
fold increase in net asset value as at April 1, 1991. Thereafter, the
asset values are adjusted to reflect yearly adjustments to the kwacha
(based on 75% foreign and 25% local components) to take into account the
difference between international and domestic inflation. The following
asumptions are made for international and domestic inflation:
Year ending March 31:   1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
International Inflation 4.2   1.8   244   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2
Domestic Inflation       8.2   5.7   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
Current Assets
S.          Accounts receivable have been estimated at 60 days's annual
sales; inventory is assumed to increase by KO.5 million each year;
prepayments and advances have been assumed to increase at 10% each year.
Current Liabilities
6.          Accounts payable are taken at 60 days of operating expenses,
excluding salaries, corporate taxes and depreciation. Project creditors
for local and foreign suppliers have been estimated at 30 and 60 days of
the local and foreign components of construction costs respectively.
Consumer deposits are set to increase by 15% per annum throughout the
forecast period. Consumer contributions in aid of capital expenditure
is assumed at 90% of the distribution expansion program; and 50% of the
Chintheche/Chikangawa 132 kV line and substation, in line with present
practice or anticipated contribution.
7.          It is assuiaed that the foreign currency component of all
proposed projects included in ESCOM's investment program will be funded
from soft-term loans except for: projects with identified grants; and
foreign currency requirements for the dia ribution expansion program as
from 1996/97. the Chinteche/Chickangawa 132 kV line and substation, and
ESCOM general which will be financed from internally generated funds.
8.          Financing for the Power V Project has been assumed as
follows after discussions with cofinanciers: IDA.US$48.75 million on-
lent to ESCOM on IBRD terms; CDC UKP15 million direct loan to ESCOM at
an interest rate of 8.5% per annum, being the interest rate on the
latest CDC loan to ESCOM; EIB's ECU14 million will be on-lent to ESCOM
in kwacha at IBRD interest rate and repayable over 18 years including 3
years' grace; and the financing gap has been assumed to be on-lent to
ESCOM on IBED terms.
9.          Funding for foreign currency requirements for all other
proposed projects has been assumed on IBRD terms except for rural
electrification projects for which an interest rate of 3% per annum has
been assumed in line with the maximum permissible rate under the present
government guidelines.



- 105 -
ANNEX 5.6
Page 3 of 3
10.         IBRD terms assumes on-lent loan from the government to ESCOM
at an interest rate of 7.65% per annum, repayable over 20 years
including 5 years will be capitalized and subject to the same terms and
conditions as the principal. IDC on direct loans to ESCOM is assumed to
be paid as it accrues out of internally generated funds.



-106 
ANNEXS.7
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRIOITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
EXISTING TARIFFS
CATEGORY OF TARIFF                                  MK_
SCALE 1 - DOMESTIC
Fixed Charge
Por Month                                        11.0000         4.4000
Energy Charge
Per Unit Zlock 0-22 6kWh/Mth                      0,1700          1.1680
Block above 226 kWh/Mth                          0.1300         0.0520
SOALE II - HIGH DENSITY DOMESTIC
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                         2.2000         0.8800
Energy Charge
Per Unit Block 0 -180 kWh/Mth"                    0.1100         0.0440
Block above 160 kWhlMth                         0.1600          0.0840
SCALE Ill-GENERAL
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                        11.8500         4.7400
Energy Chargo
Per Unit Block 0 - 600 kWhIMth-                   0.2200         0.0880
Block above 600 kWh/Mth I*                      0.1400          0.0560
SCALE IV- MAXIMUM DEMAND
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                        29.7200         11.8880
Energy Charge
Per Unit "                                        0.0380         0.0160
Demand Charge
Per Month Block 0 - 60 kVAIMth                   29.7200         11.8880
Block 60 - 300 kVAIMth                          27.2000         10.8800
Block above 300 kVAtMth                         21.6500          8.6200
Assumes an exchange rate of 2.6 MK to 1 US$.
* For the Isolated diesel system an additlonal chargo
Is applied per kWh consumed of one half of one tambala
for each whole tambala by which the cost of diesel fuel
delivered to the relevant power station exceeds twenty-two tambala per litre.



- 107 -
ANNEX 6.8
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
ELECTRICIIY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
PROPOSED TARIFFS
CATEGORY OF TARIFF                                  MK
DOMESTIC
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                         6.2638          1.8600
Energy Chargo
Per Unit Block 0.40 kWhlMth                       0.0991         0.0360
Block above 30 kWh/Mth                           0.1743          0.0816
Connection Charge                                62.6000         18.6500
GENERAL
Fixed Charge (Single Phase)
Per Month                                         6.2638          1.8600
Fixed Chargo (Threo Phase)
Per Month                                        18.3101         6.4700
Energy Chargo
All Unit Consumed                                 0.2080         0.0736
LV MD
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                        24.3863         8.6100
Energy Charge
All Units Consumed                                0.0601         0.0736
Demand Charge
Per Maximum kVAIMth                              38 1484         13.4800
MV MD
Fixed Charge
Per Month                                        23.4324          8.2800
Energy Charge
All Units Consumed                                0.0413          0.0146
Demand Charge
Peak a
Per Maximum kVAIMth                              34.3662         12.1400
Of Poak
Per Maximum kVA/Mth                               6.3770          1.9000
^ 2.83 MK =1 US$ but estimated exchange rate 199213 should
be applied to set tariff rates at 1 April 1992
*Peak Period 8.00 - 12.30 and 17.00 - 19.30 on weekdays only



- 108 -.
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Least Cost Power Generation Expansion Program
Alternative Generation Options
1.          Following completion of the Tedzani III hydro-electric scheme in
1994, and assuming demand growth follows the Base case forecast, ESCOM will
require an additional source of power supply in 1997. The options available
are: (a) a new hydroelectric plant on the Shire river, the only water course
with significant hydro potential; (b) a gas turbine, diesel or coal-fired
thermal power plant; or (c) imports from neighboring Mozambique or Zambia.
2.          Imports from Mozambique or Zambia are not an economically-viable
option. While there is likely to be surplus capacity available in 1997 from
the Cahora Bassa power station in Mozambique, this capacity is fully committed
to the Republic of South Africa from about the year 2000. This short three-
year period of availability would not justify the construction of a high-
voltage transmission link between Cahora Bassa and the ESCOM power system.
Although Zambia currently has surplus power generating capacity, this capacity
is fully contracted to Zimbabwe through the mid-1990s. Based on the long
history of cooperation between Zambia and Zimbabwe in power supply, this
contract is likely to ba extended through the end of the century, by which
time the Zambian surplus is forecast to be fully absorbed. Consequently there
is no significant potential for export from Zambia to Malawi in 1997 or the
years immediately thereafter.
3.          The alternative of diesel generation capacity would cost about
US$1200/kW to install and gas turbine capacity about US$500/kW at 1990 price
level. This is less than the capital cost of new hydro electric plant,
estimated to be about US$1500/kW. However, reliance on the option of diesel
or gas - fired plant for base load purposes is ruled out by the high cost of
imported fuel in Malawi. At 1991 prices, this results in an operating cost of
USc13/kWh for diesel and almost USc3O for a gas turbine plant, more than 4 to
10 times that of alternative hydro-electric facilities.
4.          Coal fired thermal generation is similarly not an economic option.
Malawi has very limited proven reserves of low-quality coal which are not
sufficient to fuel a coal-fired thermal power station of significant size.
The least-cost source of imported coal is the Moatize mine in Mozambique.
Coal from this source currently costs about US$65/tonne delivered to Blantyre.
At this price, coal-fired generation would cost about three times that of
hydrogeneration. In addition, the unstable security situation in Mozambique
means that delivery from Moatize is highly unreliable. Malawi has therefore
wisely decided not to base its power generation expansion program on coal
supply from its source.   In light of the above, development of hydro-electric
facilities on the Shire river is clearly the least-cost option for meeting
Malawi's future power generation needs. A thorough review of the alternative
potential sites for new hydro stations to follow the commissioning of Tedzani



- 109 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
III has been carried out for ESCOM by the US consulting firm of TAMS.1/ The
resulting estimated cost per kW installed of the leading candidate sites was
as follows:
Site/Protect                         CaDacity Cost
(K/kW)       ($/kW)
Kapichira                          1058         705
Kholombidzo                        1157         771
Mpatamanga                         1350         900
5.          This analysis confirmed that Kapichira is the least-cost option,
with a cost nearly 10% less than that of Kholombidzo, the next least-cost
alternative. The results were tested for sensitivity to the possible
construction of a regulating dam at Kholombidzo, which would increase the
effective capacity of both potential stations. It was concluded that this
would raise the potential cost saving from constructing Kapichira first from
just under 10% to 18%, thus reinforcing the case for proceeding with the
Kapichira project.
1/    ESCON DeveloRment Study, Tippetts-Abbett - McCarthy -  Stratton,
November 1984.



- 110 -
ANMEX 6.2
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Salima - Lilongwe ° Chintheche
132 kV Transmission Line'
The Existing Line
1.    A 335 km 13kV wood pole transmission line connects Salima, via the
Lilongwe B substation, to Chintheche in northern Malawi. This line is
the sole means of bulk power supply from the generating stations in the
south to consumers in the north. It currently carries a load of 9 MW
that has been growing at over 7% per year. The line supplies a number
of sugar, tobacco, tea and coffee estates, an ethanol plant, a plywood
factory and several thousand domestic consumers. A paper factory, a
cement factory and further irrigation projects are under discussion.
The potential paper factory would be a large consumer, with demand of at
least 10 MW.
2.    The existing line was constructed in 1980-82.  Termite damage to
the wood poles began to be a problem in the late 1980s and has
progressed to the extent that the line is now routinely shut down for
planned pole replacement for one day every two -eeks. In addition,
unplanned outages due to termite damage are currently averaging 120
hours per year and rising by about 10% per year.
Ontions for ImRrovinR Reliability
3.    Three options for overcoming the line's reliability problems have
been considered. One option would be to install diesel generators in
the load centers served by the line. The initial investment required
would be about US$7.5 million, and operating costs would average
KO.9/kWh about six times the tariff. Parts of the line would still need
to be used to transmit power, which would not eliminate the reliability
problem. This option is therefore neither a least-cost nor effective
solution. The other two options are to rehabilitate the existing line
by replacing the wood poles with steel towers or to construct a new
steel tower line. While marginally cheaper in capital cost terms, the
rehabilitation option would require the line to be out of service for
long periods during the construction phase. This would impose high
costs on consumers, which renders the option uneconomic. Replacement of
the line with a new line constructed with steel towers is therefore the
least cost option.
Economic Justification of a New Line
4.    The economic justification for constructing a new line was
confirmed by estimating the project's economic rate of return. The
project's costs consist of the necessary capital expenditure, with
totals K43.4 million spread over four years. Routine maintenance was
assumed to be similar to that of the existing line and excluded from the
analysis. The project's benefits are the planned and unplanned outages



- 111 -    ANNEX 6.2
Page 2 of 3
avoided by installing the new line. Planned outages avoided are
conservatively assumed to remain constant at the current rate of 24
hours per two week period over the economic life of the line, which is
taken to be 25 years. Unplanned outages avoided are assumed to increase
by 5% per year over the economic life of the line. The current load of
9 MW is assumed to grow by 7% per year, slightly below the historic
trend. A 65% load factor, the system average, is used. The cost of
power outages to consumers is extremely difficult to estimate
accurately. Estimates for three of ESCOM's largest consumers range from
KO.6/kWh to K1.6/kWh in 1989 prices. For this analysis, an estimate of
RO.9/kWh was used, which is below the mid-point of the estimated range
of outage costs and the cost of diesel generation on the isolated
northern system. Based on this value of avoided outages, the project
has an economic rate of return of 12%.



- 112 -
ANNEX 6.2
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of the Salima-Lilongwc-Chinthecho
132 kV Transmission Line
Avoided           Avoidod        Net
Year    Capital Cost       Outage (hrs)      Outage            Repair        Benefit
(K million)      Uplanned  Total  Cost (K MU.)       Cost (K Mil.)  (K Mil.)
1992         3.60                                                             -3,60
1993        29.90                                                            -29.90
1994         5.10                                                             -5.10
1995         1.00                                                             -1.00
1996         0.50          146.00   456.00     3.30               0.40         3.20
1997         0.50          153.00   463.00      3.70              0.40         3.60
1998                       161.00   471.00     4.10               0.40         4.50
1999                       169.00   479.00     4.60               0.40         5.00
2000                        177.00   487.00     5.10              0.50          5.60
2001                        186.00   496.00     5.60              0.50          6.10
2002                        195.00   505.00     6.20              0.50          6.70
2003                       205.00   515.00      6.80              0.50          7.30
2004                       216.00   526.00      7.40              0.60          8.00
2005                       226.00   536.00      8.10              0.60          8.70
2006                       238.00   548.00      8.90              0.60          9.50
2007                       249.00   559.00      9.80              0.70         10.50
2008                       262.00   572.00    10.10               0.70         10.80
2009                       275.00   585.00    10.40               0.70         11.10
2010                       289.00   599.00    10.60               0.80         11.40
2011                        303.00   613.00    10.90              0.80         11.70
2012                       318.00   628.00    11.20               0.80         12.00
2013                        334.00   644.00    11.40              0.90         12.30
2014                        351.00   661.00    11.70              0.90         12.60
2015                        369.00   679.00    12.00              1.00         13.00
2016                       387.00   697.00    12.40               1.00         13.40
2017                       406.00   716.00    12.70               1.10         13.80
2018                       427.00   737.00    13.10               1.10         14.20
2019                       448.00   758.00    13.50               1.20         14.70
2020                       470.00   780.00    13.80               1.20         15.00
ERR = 12%



- 113 -
ANNEX 6.3
MALAWI
POWER V PROJECT
Samplo Economic Analysis of the Distribuion
Relnforcoment Component: Thyolo 11 kV System Upgrade
Cost (K'000)              Benflits
Incre-
Year    Capital   O & M  Totad   mental MW   KC'O     Net Beneflt
1993      2192.00     -  2192.00          -        - -2192.00
1994               55.00    55.00       1.40   958.00   903.00
1995               55.00    55.00       2.20  1490.00  1435.00
1996       982.00  79.00  1061.00       3.00  2059.00   998.00
1997       558.00  93.00   651.00       3.90  2670.00  2019.00
1998               93.00    93.00      4.40  3034.00  2941.00
1999               93.00    93.00       5.00  3412.00  3319.00
2000       502.00 106.00   608.00       5.60  3805.00  3197.00
2001              106.00   106.00       6.20  4215.00  4109.00
2002              106.00   106.00       6.80  4640.00  4534.00
ERR = 64%



- 114 -
AM 6.4
Page 1 of 3
POWER V PROJECT
Estimation of the Economic Rate of Return
Project Definiiton
1.      The economic rate of return (ERR) has been estimated for the power
system investment and technical assistance components of the project combined,
plus units 3* 4 and 5 of the Kapichira hydro-electric station, which will be
installed later and funded outside the project. The rationale for including
the costs and benefits of these three units is that they are an integral part
of the Kapichira scheme.
Period of Analysis
2.      The analysis covers the period 1992-2019.  This was selected for
consistency with the projected economic life of the shortest-lived project
components, which are the transmission and distribution reinforcement
investments. It is assumed that the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme has a
longer economic life of 50 years, and net benefits are estimated and included
in the analysis for this 50 year period.
Economic Costs
3.      The economic costs used in the analysis consist of: (a) the estimated
capital cost of the project's power componentst plus (b) the capital cost of
generating units 3, 4 and 5 of the Kapichira power plant; plus (c) the
estimated operations and maintenance cost of the total package of capital
investments, which are calculated at 2% of the investment cost. The costs of
Units 3, 4 and 5 at Kapichira are included because the scheme is an integrated
facility, the physical structure and first two units of which will be financed
under the project, the last three units financed separately and installed
later as justified by demand. Operations and maintenance costs for Kapichira
from 2019, the assumed economic life of the transmission and distribution
assets, to 2043, the assumed economic life of the Kapichira hydro plant, are
discounted to 2019 at a rate of 10%. All costs are in 1990 constant prices.
Economic Benefits
4.      Economic benefits are estimated for:  (a) the generation
rehabilitation, transmission and distribution reinforcement components; and
(b) the Kapichira hydro-electric scheme, and then summed to give total project
benefits. All benefits are expressed in terms of 1990 constant prices.
5.      With respect to the category (a) components, the benefits of
generation rehabilitation will consist of reduced diesel or gas turbine
generation and reduced outages; the benefits of the transmission line
replacement will consist of reduced outages; and the benefits of the
distribution reinforcement program will consist of reduced outages and



- 115 -                   ANNEX 6.4
Page 2 of 3
additional power supply. The economic value of these benefits will range from
a minimum of the future tariff (t15.5/kWh) in the case of additional supply to
a maximum of the cost of substitute private generation (up to R3/kWh) in the
case of avoided outages. The cost of avoided diesel generation on the
interconnected system (90.9/kWh) represents a realistic average value of
these benefits and is used in the analysis. The estimated size of the
benefits stream in terms of GWh is based on the results of the loss reduction
study, the transmission line analysis (Annex 6.2) and the forecast reduction
in diesel generation from rehabilitating the older hydro-electric stations.
In combination, these benefits are estimated to total 1% of generation in
1993, 3% of generation in 1904, 5% iu 1995 and 6% in 1996. The benefits are
held constant at this level through 2019, the assumed economic life of the
related investments.
6.      The economic benefits of the Kapichira hydro-electric scheme are the
forecast incremental sales made possible by commissioning the station and by
the subsequent installation of units 3, 4, and 5. These benefits are assumed
to begin in 1998 and to rise progressively to 2005, when it is forecast that
the station's firm energy capability will be fully utilized. As the benefits
stream is based on firm, not average energy capability, it is inherently
conservative and almost certainly understated. The benefits are valued at
tlS.5/kWh, the forecast 1998 tariff, deflated to 1990. This represents a
minimum value of the benefits, as revealed by consumers' willingness to pay.
The actual value of benefits will range from thin minimum level up to the cost
of alternative generation which, for a small diesel plant, is in the range of
Kl-K3/kWh. Benefits over the scheme's second 25 years of its assumed 50 year
economic life are discounted to 2019 at a rate of 10%.
7.      Based on the above assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
is estimated to be 16.1%.
Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
8.      The principal risks of the project are:  (a) underestimation of the
costs of the Kapichira hydro scheme; (b) overestimation of demand growth; and
(c) delays in the construction of Kapichira. The generation rehabilitation
transmission and distribution components all involve relatively simple and
standard technologies and are not considered subject to any significant
technical risk.
9.      The sensitivity of the economic rate of return to a possible cost
overrun on Kapichira was tested by assuming that capital costs are
underestimated by a factor of 20% and benefii:a are unchanged. The resulting
estimated project ERR falls to 14.0%. The impact of a possible overestimation
of demand growth in the ERR was tested by assuming that demand grows 20% less
than the base case demand scenario. This results in an estimated ERR of
12.2%. A delay in the completion of Kapichira would raise both its capital
cost and also its utilization (and hence benefits) in the years immediately
following completion. Assuming that tariffs would be raised to cover the
increased capital costs and that demand is relatively inelastic, the resulting
ERR would be above the 16.1% base case estimate.



- 116 -
ANNEDY 6.4
Page 3 of 3
MALAWI
Economic Rate of Return to the Electric Power Components
(K Ml.)
Costs                                  Benefits
Year      Capital  0 & M      Total  (OniTrans GwenTrans/Dlst   Kapichira    Kapichira Net Benefits
Dist (GWh)    IKMi.   (GUlb           (K Mil.)  Total
1992        4.92     0.10     5.02          -          7.83          -           -    -5.02
1993       74.81      1.59    76.40       8.70        24.57          -           -   -68.57
1994       179.01    5.17   184.18       27.30       44.57           -           -  -159.61
1995       155.50    8.28   163.1X       49.20        44.28          -           -  -119.50
1996       116.32    10.61   126.93      63.10        56.79          -           -   -70.14
1997       58.03    11.77    69.80       78.70        70.83          -           -     1.03
1998       69.50    13.16    82.66       78.70        70.83      67.90       10.52    -1.31
1999       52.68    14.22    66.90       78.70        70.83      141.70      21.96    25.89
2000         6.18    14.39    20.57      78.70        70.83      221.90      34.39    84.65
2001                 14.39    14.39      78.70        70.83      309.60      47.99   104.43
2002 .               14.39    14.39      78.70        70.83      404.70      62.73   119.17
2003                 14.39    14.39      78.70        70.83      506.90      78.57   135.01
2004                 14.39    14.39      78.70        70.83      617.80      95.76   152.20
2005- 18             14.39    14.39      78.70        70.83      658.00      101.99   158.43
2019                143.68   143.68          -           -      6569.84     1018.34   874.66
ERR= 16.1%



IBRD 23398
>   ~~~~~~Kto l
S))s Ch RU U   >MALAWI
.0'                                         r~X>CX   X                                POWER V PROJECT
Office
,_   Rivers                                                                                T     aCHIWl Ptio w
o    Towns                                                                                 HydroPower
1         i1 ~~FUFU                              Sain
*     Distrid Capitals       ,_MRNa 4ojor Substations
*     National Copitol                      Rum.                                            Hydro Power Stations
omo%Region Boundaries                                                                     Possible Future
InteRnation Boundaries l                                                             Hydro Power Stations
-    ovnternaions                              Elcwen    Lak&                             Mini Hydro Power
Boundarnoties         g#          4g   EoMI Xkota                 %           @      Stotions Planned
L Rf tO ig bY j j                                     132 kV O.H.L. Existing
CI,itun owe  *~~CI1   ~            - -  132 WVO.H.L.
Under construdion
- *. '                                kimbo                Chltsumu ls              ,P(  E,CTr, Reinforcement of 132 kV O.H.L.
Ll Ukomo I        -         66 kV O.H.L. Existing
ZAMBIA                                                                            . . .. 66 kV O.H.L. Planned
- 33 kV O.H.L. Existing
- - - - 33 kV O.H.L. Plonned
Nkhotkoto                   ......      kV O.H.L.
I C+°    Nthb| .                                KILOMETeRS O   20   40  60  80  100
/   SVE    +nel)\   yoB\         5     \           M[~~~~~~~~~ALES 0  0 40     6
X    tw   \r .  , Dowa  \z<                           k
ng Mchin;4chip mCh.\
This ma                         O        f         ih;,7<gsi                                          1
by ThoP W¢°ddben,oef                                                                 ;>frorba       4
of rorJdesd  for is a or Ih*O       k                             h N rh/£ N                       Eo(lw
Gru.and   dnmrios ford thru,1e 
interl use onr TrihoWr orBonkSV<1                                         l    9e/S
denominofionsr LeadA<eQ) 
gz-Ah'.11~~1Q bomare  shw
on4B thi md nt 1,p2 on th
any BjTdwAnt 5 onMh eg             R                            0                         M 9 chiN ngo
status o any AFORUICA     or any )  <                                                   ' '         '                Moy 1.°92



