Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21534-MW
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23860)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR POWER V PROJECT
December 27, 2000
AFTEG
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 1.00 = US$ 0.018
US$ 1.00 = MK 55.85
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
CDC          Commonwealth Development Corporation
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DSP          Divestiture Sequence Plan
EIB          European Investment Bank
EMU          Environmental Management Unit
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
ESCOM        Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
FMO          Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden
FRDP         Fiscal Reform and Deregulation Project
GWh          Gigawatt hour
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
KfW          Kreditanstadt fur Wiederaufbau
kWh          Kilowatt hour
MIS          Management Information System
NORAD        Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NDF          Nordic Development Fund
PCC          Petroleum Control Commission
RSA          Rapid Supervision Assessment
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SCADA        System Control and Data Acquisition
TOR          Terms of Reference
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:   Ananda Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Paivi Koljonen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001662                                      Project Name: POWER V
Team Leader: Paivi Koijonen                              TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: POWER V                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-23860
Country/Department. MALAWI                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: PH - Hydro; PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/22/90                                Effective: 06/30/92           12/21/93
Appraisal:  07/01/91                                 MTR:
Approval:  06/17/92                               Closing: 06/30/98            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/ESCOM/EPD
Other Partners: Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), European Investment Bank
(EIB), Kreditanstadt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW), Nederlandse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden (FMO)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                               Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:      Ananda Covindassamy                       David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Paivi Koljonen                           Assefa Telahun
ICR Primary Author:   Paivi Koljonen; Angel Baide;
Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to implement the power component of the least cost energy strategy
adopted by the Government of Malawi. The specific objectives were to: (i) meet the growth in demand for
power in a least cost manner through the construction of the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme and the
rehabilitation of the hydro, standby gas, and diesel power plants (ii) improve the quality of power supply
through reinforcing the transmission and distribution systems to minimize outages and reduce losses; (iii)
strengthen the capacity of energy sector institutions to plan, manage, and operate the energy sector facilities
and institutions; and (iv) assist in rationalizing sector-wide energy pricing policy.
Following four previous Bank operations in support of Malawi's energy sector development, the project
arose from a long-standing dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower. The objective was realistic and
relevant for the country and consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy. The project directly
supported the Govemment's structural adjustment program, which included least cost power development,
decreasing dependence on imported oil and coal, and arresting the depletion of indigenous fuel wood
resources. The project was justified in view of the expected growth in electricity demand. The project was
supported by a significant amount of preparatory work, notably a comprehensive Power Sector Least Cost
Expansion Plan carried out under the previous project, Energy I (Cr. 1 990-MAI). The institutional
strengthening and energy pricing were a continuation of activities initiated under the Energy I project and
were critical for the sustainability of the project. The Bank's involvement in the project was also expected
to assist aid flow to the power sector and its application in priority areas.
Implementation was demanding for the Borrower. This was, after all, the largest project ever implemented
in Malawi. Even though the Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi (ESCOM), the main implementing
agency, was a competently managed and operated utility at the time of appraisal, the project's appraisal
report recognized its limited capacity to implement such a complex project. Consequently, the project
financed engineering consultants to help ESCOM in the design and supervision of the project. During
implementation it became clear that the coordination of a large number of contractors (13), stretched
ESCOM's implementation capacity. Also, the closing of the project's financing gap, which was for the
most part caused by the donor community's withdrawal of support to Malawi for govemance reasons in
1992, proved to be a demanding task and the 18-month delay in effectiveness was caused by this factor.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The restructuring of the project in June 1998 excluded the specific objective aimed at improving the quality
of power supply through reinforcing the transmission and distribution systems. The restructuring was
required since the Borrower could not mobilize donor support to close the foreign exchange financing gap
for these components.
3.3 Original Components:
Power Components
A. Kapichira Hydroelectric Scheme: (i) construction of an 800 m long earth fill and composite earth-rock
fill dam at Kapichira Falls creating a pondage of about 200 ha for daily regulation; provision of a 450 m
long power canal and power intake, two steel penstocks, a power house to accommodate five generating
units, a tailrace, and a switchyard; (ii) installation of two Francis turbines coupled to two 25 MW
generators with associated electromechanical equipment; (iii) switchgear and.control equipment for
Kapichira Switchyard and extension of substations at Tedzani and Blantyre West; (iv) construction of
about 58 km of 132 kV single circuit transmission line from Kapichira Switchyard to Tedzani III; (v)
- 2 -



extension of the SCADA system to include Kapichira and upgrading the existing generation control
microcomputer center at Nkula B power station and interface of the telemetry software with the existing
system; (vi) establishment of single channel PLC and telephone links to Kapichira to connect it to the
existing system; and (vii) engineering services for the design, supervision, and management of the
hydroelectric scheme, provision of a panel of experts to review the design and provide advice on technical
issues during the construction phase.
B. Generation Rehabilitation. This component aimed at improving the availability of the existing power
plants through reconditioning or replacement of runners, guide vanes, and cooling systems; provision of
essential spares and rehabilitation of the intake structure for the hydro power stations; and acquisition of
spares for the gas turbines and diesel power plants.
C. Transmission Reinforcement. This component focused on improving the reliability of the transmission
system to the Northern Region through acquisition and installation of tubular steel poles and steel
cross-arms to replace the existing wood poles and wooden cross-arms; construction of a control building;
and installation of a control system at Lilongwe to improve data collection and storage, reduce outage
times, and facilitate operations.
D. Distribution Reinforcement. This component was to improve the reliability of the distribution system
and reduce the distribution losses through installation of substation transformers at key locations;
reconductoring of the I lkV and low voltage systems in the southern, central, and northern regions; and
construction of low voltage overhead lines and underground cables, installation of distribution transformers
and provision of energy meters, autoclosures and sectionalizers, and acquisition of vehicles for use in the
distribution systems.
E. Institutional Strengthening of ESCOM: (i) consultancy services for studies to determine the least cost
option for power supply after Kapichira and provision of expert services; (ii) establishing a strategy for
computerizing ESCOM's financial and technical operations, provisions for the acquisition of one central
computer system at ESCOM's headquarters and 18 microcomputers; and (iii) provision for training of
ESCOM's staff, including provision for training aids, to assist in building capacity to plan, manage and
operate ESCOM's facilities and systems.
Non-power components
F. Energy Planning and Policy: (i) household energy strategy study to establish a data base of household
energy supply and demand, examine the supply and marketing of various forms of household energy, with
emphasis on biomass energy, including substitution possibilities, and recommend a household energy
strategy; and (ii) provision of about 15 man months of expert services on an as-needed basis, to assist the
Government on energy-related issues including advice on petroleum or coal exploration and to address
energy conservation and demand management measures.
G. Petroleum Supply. This component financed expert services to review arrangements for petroleum
product procurement, transportation, and bulk storage and the legal framework of the Petroleum Control
Commission (PCC).
H. Energy Efficiency. Technical advisory services to the Tobacco Control Commission to demonstrate
energy efficient barn designs for tobacco curing for small holder farmers and to promote the use of
softwood charcoal as a substitute for the scarce hardwood charcoal used in curing tobacco.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The optimization study that was included in the project scope, refined the design of Kapichira. It relocated
the power house to the river's left bank, eliminated the 450 m long intake canal by designing the power
house adjacent to a cliff, reduced the size of the reservoir, increased the capacity of the generating units
from 25 MW to 32 MW each, and reduced the number of generating units from five to four. These
changes addressed the environmental impacts identified in the Environmental Assessment and resulted in a
more compact and environmentally friendly arrangement which would be less disturbing to the wildlife of
the Majete Game Reserve. This design also reduced the estimated cost.
In 1996, the Bank reallocated the credit to use the savings that resulted from the final design to reduce the
project's financing gap. It financed the installation of the Kapichira generators and a portion of the
generation rehabilitation (the dredging of the Nkula reservoir). This reallocation was critical for the
continuation of the project for several reasons. First, the Kapichira generators and turbines were
unexpectedly without financing after credit effectiveness because AfDB was unable to meet its co-financing
commitment. Subsequently, KfW agreed to finance the water turbines. Second, the dredging of the Nkula
reservoir had emerged, after appraisal, as a critical measure to restore the generating capability of Malawi's
main hydropower plant because the silt in the reservoir had increased rapidly The reservoir's live storage
of 9 m had shrunken to less than 3 m thereby drastically reducing the output of the plant. As the water
intake for the Blantyre Water Board was located in the reservoir, the dredging would also improve water
supply.
A major restructuring in June 1998 canceled the transmission and distribution components and the energy
efficiency component. The former two were canceled because of the lack of co-financing and the latter
because of protracted delays in start-up, which made its objective unattainable. At a later stage, the project
added financing of advisory services for the development of a Power Sector Policy.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory because:
3 project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy and Government development
priorities;
*   the design had a good balance between generation expansion and the rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the existing generation, transmission, and distribution systems;
*  the power components were well-defined and supported the project's objectives. Their design was
based on rigorous engineering studies and they were adequate to meet the forecast power demand. The
project incorporated a review of the detailed design before construction began;
*   the Bank's safeguard policies were strictly observed. This was the first project in the Bank's Africa
Region subject to a full Environmental Assessment (EA) under the Bank's new environmental policy.
Adequate consultations were carried out with Govemment agencies and NGOs during the EA field
work. The recommendations of the EA were incorporated in project design. The project also included
a Panel of Experts to review the design and safety of the dam; and
*   the design coordinated donor support under the umbrella of one project to relieve the Government's
capacity constraints.
-4 -



The project's staff appraisal report (SAR) identified several project risks and considered that these could be
managed through design and credit conditionalities. First, there was the risk of the probable inaccuracy of
the power demand forecast, which could be negatively affected by an unexpected adverse economic or
political situation of the region. This risk was minimized by the two-staged development of the Kapichira
scheme. Second, the risk of low free water level of Lake Malawi resulting from probable consecutive dry
years was expected to be mitigated either through: (i) a contingent plan of dredging the channel connecting
Lake Malawi to the Shire river; or (ii) construction of thermal plant; or (iii) interconnection with
neighboring countries. Third, the project ran the risk of delay if the financing gap could not be closed as
early as possible. This could be mitigated by trimming the project to only the hydropower components.
The SAR noted, however, that this would jeopardize some of the objectives and benefits of the project.
Fourth, there was the possibility of a financial risk in the event that project costs exceeded the estimates.
This risk was mitigated by making ample provision in the form of contingencies for civil works, and by
using higher-than-average quotes on suppliers' prices for the major electromechanical equipment. Fifth,
the institutional risks were to be minimized through conditionalities included in the project.
In hindsight, although most of the risks were realistically assessed in the SAR and well managed through
project design, two of them seem to have been underestimated and subsequently the measures identified
were not adequate to mitigate them. In particular, the SAR appears to have underestimated the institutional
risks, which could not be minimized through conditionalities. The institutional risks largely related to the
erosion of ESCOM's autonomy brought about by political interference. The SAR recognized the weakness
of the power sector's institutional framework including the gradual erosion of ESCOM's commercial and
management autonomy. However, soundness of the institutional framework and financial performance
were left to the legal covenants of the Development Credit and Project Agreements. Project implementation
showed that this approach was not sufficient, as supervision could not overcome the institutional and
financial weaknesses.
Another risk that the project could have attempted to mitigate more rigorously was the risk of low water
levels, which would seriously affect the generation capability of Malawi's hydro-dominated power system.
The SAR recognized that major energy deficits could occur at any time from the mid-1990s and considered
dredging the accumulated silt in the upper Shire channel linking the river to Lake Malawi to be the least
cost option, requiring also the minimum time to implement, and to be acted upon when the lake level
reached a pre-defined minimum trigger level. Detailed evaluation of options during the critical drought
period proved dredging the channel connecting Lake Malawi to the Shire river to be a very expensive
option and pumping water from Lake Malawi into the Shire River to be a cheaper solution. However,
action on drought mitigating measures has yet to materialize. At project closing the major mitigating
measures, the Shire River pumping project and the interconnection with neighboring countries, were only at
an inception and initial negotiations stage, respectively. The regional experience of the impact of drought
for power generation and the drought experienced in Malawi in 1994/95 suggests the critical need to
diversify power supply sources.
Finally, project design could have been improved with more realistic assessment of the Government's
capacity to manage the non-power components. During implementation it became evident that the
Govermment was not fully committed to these components. A clear agreement with Government during
appraisal on the objectives of the policy work to be financed under the project might have provided more
focus during implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-5 -



Assessment of the project's achievement of its objectives gives a mixed picture. On balance and
considering that ESCOM's decline raises serious concerns about the sustainability of the project in the
longer term and the utility's ability to expand electricity access, the achievement of the overall development
objective is unsatisfactory. The achievement of the specific objectives is as follows:
(a) Meeting the growth in demandfor power in a least cost manner. This project objective was partially
achieved with the commissioning of the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme, which was the least cost
generating plant. It came on line at a moment when the power system's reserve margins had fallen
practically to zero, increasing ESCOM's installed hydro generating capacity by 30 percent, from 196 to
260 MW, and its energy production capability by about 40 percent, from 926 GWh to 1330 GWh per year.
The plant will make a substantial contribution to electricity supply in the country when demand growth
picks up. Kapichira created an initial energy surplus situation because of lower than expected growth in
electricity demand. However, from a system operations perspective, the project provided critically needed
capacity, which would allow ESCOM to better serve peak demands and operate the system more
efficiently. The low reliability of the transmission and distribution systems will continue to constrain the
quality of service until the planned rehabilitation works are completed by 2003. The generation
rehabilitation also led to supply augmentation. The dredging of the regulating reservoir for the Nkula
power plant recovered some 500,000 cubic meters of live storage that had been lost to sedimentation,
providing a minimum of 10 GWh per year of additional energy to the system.
(b) Strengthening the capacity of energy sector institutions. This component resulted in outcomes at
three levels: overall energy planning; sector reform; and ESCOM, with the following assessments.
Overall Energy Planning. The project was marginally satisfactory in strengthening the overall energy
planning capacity of Government institutions. The household and biomass studies carried out under the
project would provide valuable input to the National Energy Strategy which was being developed at project
closing. The petroleum study was, however, of little use to the Government. The original TORs aimed to
increase the security of supply after the outbreak of war in Mozambique. Following the end of the war, the
situation in the petroleum sector changed dramatically and the TORs were no longer relevant. The
Government decided to liberalize the importation of petroleum products and with effect from May 2000 the
role of PCC has been limited to that of an industry regulator; a new parastatal company has been formed to
operate oil storage facilities; all imports are being handled by the private sector; and an automatic
petroleum pricing formula is being administered by a private sector committee under the chairmanship of
the Malawi Chamber of Commerce. The only discretion accorded to the Ministry of Finance is a two-week
period in which to challenge the calculations.
Sector Reform. Sector reform was not a specific objective of the project but became an important part of
the power sector dialogue between the Bank and the Government in light of the inadequate performance of
sector institutions and the recommendations by the 1996 Completion Report for the Energy I project. The
main support was provided under the Second Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Project (Cr. 31470)
while Power V acted mainly as a catalyst for dialogue and provided only limited financial support. The
impact of this support was, however, satisfactory in strengthening the capacity of Government institutions
to initiate the reform of the power sector. Although the reform is still far from complete and has recently
been constrained by eroding social support due to macroeconomic difficulties, the Government has drafted
a power Sector Policy Paper with attendant amendments to the Electricity Law. When approved, the new
policy would aim at increasing private sector participation in the provision of electricity services (paras.
4.5 and 6.2).
ESCOM. The outcome of the specific components aimed at strengthening ESCOM's operations was
- 6 -



mixed:
*   It was satisfactory for the least-cost development plan, which would contribute to the optimal
development of the power system. It identified the interconnection of the Malawi system with
Mozambique to be the least-cost expansion alternative, followed by a pumping station at the point
where the Shire River flows out of Lake Malawi, and the installation of Units 3 and 4 at Kapichira.
The government is discussing the interconnection with Mozambique and a study is in progress for
the pumping project;
*   It was marginal for the System Operations Model, which was intended to help in optimizing the
operation of the hydro power plants. Although the Model was developed, it did not become
operational since ESCOM did not provide the required information on the basic parameters for the
generating plants to the consultant;
*   It was delayed for the installation of a new billing system, which would improve billings and cash
collections, and reduce non-technical losses. The change to the new system gave rise to problems
that seriously affected the quality, reliability, and timely delivery of electricity bills. Customer
complaints increased sharply and public confidence in ESCOM was severely dented. These
problems were partly caused by the contractor and partly by ESCOM itself. The new billing
system was not customized to ESCOM's requirements but ESCOM delayed taking decisive action
towards the contractor to resolve the deficiencies that were apparent from the beginning. At
project closing the outstanding problems were being resolved; and
=   It was partial for financial training as two of the four accountants trained have left ESCOM for
private sectorjobs.
ESCOM's financial and operational performance was unsatisfactory. ESCOM was a much weaker
institution both financially and operationally at project closing than it was at appraisal. During
implementation its financial performance plummeted and the quality of electricity service deteriorated as
illustrated by the following:
. internal cash generation fell from 26% at appraisal to about 20% at closing and fluctuated between
- 1% and 33 %. The target of 30% was met only for one year FYI 997/98 after debt restructuring;
*   debt service coverage fell from 2.5 at appraisal to about I at closing. The target of 1.5 was met in
all years except FY1994/95 and FY1996/97 although it was only met in FY1997198 onwards after
debt restructuring;
*   return on revalued asset fell from 2.4 % at appraisal to about -0.9 % at closing. It was negative
during most of implementation;
*   accounts receivable target was met for two years and stood at 88 days at closing instead of the
expected 60; and
*   network losses worsened from 15% at appraisal to around 18% at present instead of improving to
13% as forecast.
(c) Rationalizing sector-wide energypricingpolicy. Achievement was unsatisfactory because electricity
tariff adjustments were inadequate despite the fact that correct policy elements such as a new tariff
structure and a separate (albeit not completely autonomous) regulator - the Electricity Council - were put in
place in 1992 and 1999 respectively. Another improvement was the regulator's approval of an automatic
tariff adjustment mechanism in 2000. The mechanism allows ESCOM to adjust its tariffs automatically to
take into account movements in the foreign exchange rate and local inflation over which it has no control.
- 7 -



The Kwacha depreciated from about 2.9 to the dollar at appraisal to about 55 to the dollar at project
closing. ESCOM has applied the adjustment formula twice since its inception, but these adjustments have
not been sufficient in keeping the tariff in parity with the sharply depreciating currency.
The average tariff revenue, which was equivalent to US cents 4.3/kWh at appraisal stood at about
US4/kWh cents at project closing, compared to the projected tariff in the SAR of about 7.0 US cents/kWh
for 1998/99. The inadequate adjustment of electricity tariffs to cost recovery compromised ESCOM's
financial performance and prevented it from meeting the project's financial covenants and its debt service
obligations.
(d) Environmental and Social Outcomes. Though the environmental and social outcomes were not listed
as a specific project objective in the SAR, they are worth highlighting because this was the first project in
the Africa Region which was subject to a full Environmental Assessment and because the implementation
experience was very good. There were a number of benefits that materialized through the management of
the environmental and social aspects of the project and these went well beyond the limits of the site
specific/construction related mitigation:
*   income generation for local communities which participated in environmental mitigation activities;
*   strengthening social cohesion by respecting women's cultural rights;
3   increased access to education, health facilities, and potable water;
3   improved wildlife management and park services including protection, monitoring and research;
and
3   enhancing ESCOM's environmental and social records and documentation thereby ensuring
sustainability of the mitigating measures.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Power Component
Kapichira. The hydroelectric plant with a total generating capacity of 64 MW together with associated
transmission was completed according to specifications in July 2000.
Generation Rehabilitation The dredging of Nkula's regulating reservoir was completed in July 1999 and
the spare parts for the Nkula B hydro power plant were purchased in 2000.
ESCOM's Institutional Development Component. The outputs were: (i) a least-cost system
development plan for 2000-20015 and corresponding investment program; (ii) a System Operations Model
to help improve the operation of the cascaded group of power plants, especially during drought periods;
(iii) a strategy for the Management Information System; (iv) a new computerized billing system and 18
computers; and (v) training of 25 technicians and engineers, and 4 accountants.
B. Non-Power Components
Energy Planning and Policy. The Household Energy Survey and the Biomass Marketing and Production
Study were completed in 1996 and 1997 respectively.
Petroleum Supply Study. The Petroleum Supply Study was completed in 1999.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
-8 -



The ex-post economic evaluation has broadly followed the methodology used in the SAR, though it has
been modified to take into account the changed configuration of investments due to the cancellation of the
transmission and distribution rehabilitation and thus economic benefits. The ICR re-estimated the ERR at
about 11% assuming an electricity demand growth of 5 % per year. If the annual growth was only 4%, the
ERR would drop to 10%. In comparison, the estimated ERR in the appraisal report was 16.1%. The
difference between the ERR estimates can be explained by the lower than expected growth in electricity
demand, and the cancellation of the transmission and distribution components, and thus the benefits
associated with these. The resultant impact was moderated by the lower than expected capital cost of
Kapichira (Annex 3).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR did not calculate a financial rate of return for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's overall institutional development impact was modest. It was generally satisfactory in helping
ESCOM in technical areas but failed to achieve the intended outcomes in the financial and managerial
areas as discussed in paragraph 4.1 (ii). The implementation of the project improved the capacity of
ESCOM staff to design and manage a complex hydropower project. The training provided by the
contractors will help ESCOM to operate Kapichira, as it provided hands-on experience for technicians and
engineers in the course of its construction and commissioning. The least-cost planning study will help
system planning. The consultants did the study mostly in Malawi to maximize transfer of skills and made
the software and hardware available to ESCOM staff for generation and transmission planning and for
demand forecasting. Finally, the project made a significant contribution to improving the capacity of
ESCOM and other Government agencies to design, implement, and monitor environmental and social
impacts of hydropower projects.
The project's impact on building institutional capacity in overall energy and power sector reform was
higher. Building on the assistance provided under the project and the Second Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation project (Cr. 31470), the Borrower has drafted a paper on the Government's Power Sector
Policy aimed at increasing private sector participation, and is in the process of finalizing a paper on the
country's overall Energy Policy. As part of this process, Government carried out public consultation
processes in June 1999 and in September 2000. The major elements of the policies were debated amongst
the stakeholders. Cabinet discussion on the Power Sector Policy is scheduled for December 2000 and on
the Energy Policy for mid-2001.
See also paragraphs 4.1 (ii) and 6.2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation coincided with a turbulent period in Malawi's history linked to the onset of a
multi-party democracy. The period that followed saw the country building up its democratic institutions,
and implementing policy and economic reforms. The Govermnent's economic reform program during the
1990s had mixed success arising from both internal and external developments and resulted in an economic
environment very different from the SAR assumptions. The structural reforms have created a far more
open and competitive economy compared to the early nineties. The Govenment, however, had less success
in restoring and sustaining macroeconomic stability. While the long term trends show improvement during
the 1990s, there have been sharp year-to-year fluctuations. GDP growth is marked by wide swings ranging
-9-



between 7.3% in 1996 to 2% in 1998. These have continued to stifle the growth prospects of Malawi's
small but potentially dynamic private sector. The massive devaluation of the Kwacha started in the run-up
to elections in 1994 when the exchange rate was allowed to float, and became the beginning for the
accelerated decline of ESCOM's financial difficulties. The exchange rate depreciated again sharply in
1998 and consumer price inflation registered a marked increase driven by this devaluation. Since June
2000, inflation has begun to rise again and there has been a sharp depreciation in the exchange rate due to:
(i) falling tobacco prices and quality, and rising oil prices; (ii) delays in donor disbursements; (iii)
devaluation of the South African Rand, and the Zimbabwean dollar; and, (iv) slippage in monetary policy
resulting in an expansion in money supply.
Government had little control over the following factors that postponed the construction of Kapichira:
*   Inability of the AfDB to meet its financing commitments to the project following credit effectiveness;
*   Design changes;
* The main civil works bid document had to be redone to include two alternatives for dam design,
following a recommendation of the Panel of Experts;
*   The civil works contractor's delay in mobilization of the needed equipment to site;
* The prolonged drought that began in 1994/1995 and its attendant impact on generation and, in turn, on
ESCOM's sales revenues; and
o  The disruption of ESCOM's operations due to the tragic loss of staff from HIV/AIDS related
complications.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government had control over its main role in the project, which was to make sure that the implementing
agencies had the institutional support and financial means to implement the project as agreed with IDA.
Increased politicitization, the Government's failure to increase tariffs as needed and to cause Government
agencies to pay ESCOM promptly for electricity service, as well as its undue oversight of ESCOM's
operational decisions resulted in the erosion of ESCOM's financial position and management autonomy.
Furthermore, the lack of political resolve to tackle the deep-rooted inefficiency of ESCOM, compounded
sector problems.
Suspension of all non-humanitarian support to Malawi by the donor community because of concerns about
governance was also a factor subject to Government control. During implementation, the Government's
unresponsiveness in addressing donors' concerns about ESCOM's liquidity problems made it difficult to
close the project's financing gap. It was only towards the end of the project that the Government's pledges
to refonn the power industry, following management changes in the Ministry of Finance, made the donors
willing to consider financing of the distribution and transmission components.
The Government also was responsible for inducing the appropriate Departments to produce the policy
studies under the project's non-power components. The start-up of the studies was delayed due, in part, to
the reorganization of the implementing agencies and, in part, to changes in senior staff following the
inauguration in 1994 of the newly elected Government. Government ownership of these components
weakened further following the disbandament of the Ministry of Energy and Mines in 1998. Although the
household and biomass studies were completed, the Government did not put in place clear channels of
responsibility, which hindered coordination and subsequently deferred necessary follow-up.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
ESCOM had control over the completion of the project's power component and the maintaining of sound
technical, financial, and managerial capacity to sustain the viability of the investments. As discussed in
- 10-



paragraph 5.2, the company only had partial control over its revenue levels. Nonetheless, ESCOM was in a
position to put in place proper financial controls to cut out waste and inefficiencies but it did not do so
despite advice from the Bank. Currently ESCOM has not been able to close its accounts, seven months
after the end of its financial year. Yet, it has shown no urgency to initiate procurement of accounting
assistance for its business units, which the Bank has agreed to finance under the Utility Reforn and
Privatization project (Cr. 3395).
It also allowed non-technical system losses to increase and service delivery to deteriorate and it did not take
adequate measures to improve its collection performance. Because of the lack of focused and timely action
by ESCOM's management to address the apparent problems with the new billing system, its
implementation was protracted and caused the utility financial and consumer relations problems. More
importantly, lack of management coordination and the piecemeal internal restructuring of the utility put a
heavy toll on its performance and staff morale.
ESCOM was responsible for the procurement for the power component. Although it performed
satisfactorily for most of the sub-components, it failed to procure sedimentation monitoring equipment and
the spare parts for the power plants even though the Bank had agreed to finance them. There were also
delays in the procurement process of the contract for the generators due to issues concerning
prequalification of a bidder which were eventually resolved in favor of the bidder. The same bidder
submitted a low bid for the generators which were, however, large for accommodation in the powerhouse.
ESCOM accepted the recommendation of the Engineer to declare the bid non-responsive. The Bank's
intervention for a qualitative evaluation rather than a somewhat subjective approach resulted in the
selection of another bidder as being the lowest responsive bid. As a result, the procurement process from
bidding to contract award took about eleven months.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was about US$ 140 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$231
million. The difference is partly due to the cancellation of a number of project components. The cost of
Kapichira was about US$131 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$179 million. IDA financed
about US$54 million, EIB US$20 million, KfW US$18 million, CDC US$24 million, and FMO US$5
million. ESCOM contributed about US$18 million equivalent in local costs. In addition, SIDA, NDF, and
NORAD are financing the reinforcement of the transmission and distribution networks, which were
canceled from the project in 1998. Their combined commitment is about US$24 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is unlikely, unless the viability of the power sector is restored to ensure
efficient operation and maintenance of the power plants. Even though the physical assets will provide
tangible benefits for many years ahead even without proper maintenance, their long-term sustainability will
require that the sector is operated on commercial principles. Implementation of the Government's recently
initiated reform program, including sector restructuring and increased private sector participation would
provide the elements needed for sustainability.
The sustainability of the Nkula reservoir dredging depends on environmental factors. Because of the
expanded farming activities and deforestation along the catchement area for the Shire River, the risk of
sedimentation build-up is greater now than it was at appraisal. To improve sustainability, the project
purchased equipment and trained ESCOM staff to continue the removal of silt accumulations as may be
needed during the lifetime of the project. In addition, the project provided funding for equipment for the
- 11 -



monitoring of sedimentation upstream, but ESCOM did not purchase it despite the urging of the Bank.
Although ESCOM's efforts in controlling and preventing sedimentation are crucial, the only permanent
solution is the improved management of farming activities and reforestation along the river. IDA is
supporting such a development under the Environmental Management project (Cr. N-025).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has taken initial steps to reform the sector, which, if followed through, would unlock
many of the shortcomings that constrained implementation and would enhance the sustainability of the
investments. The new Electricity Law, enacted in 1998, provided for private sector entry into the sector
and the establishment of an electricity regulator (the Electricity Council). Recently, the Government has
realized that the Law is inadequate in attracting private participation. In particular it does not provide
adequate clarity on licensing and tariff setting procedures and there are issues on the autonomy of the
regulator. On this basis, a new Law and a Power Sector Policy paper have been prepared and are
scheduled to be submitted to the Cabinet for consideration by the end of 2000. Under the new policy,
power sector activities would be organized according to functional lines into separate generation,
transmission, and distribution businesses. The power distribution business would be divested to the private
sector following a detailed study on suitable options.
The Public Enterprises (Privatization) Act passed in 1996 laid the legal basis for implementing the
privatization program of Government assets. The Government approved a Divestiture Sequence Plan
(DSP) for 100 public enterprises in 1997. The DSP has slated ESCOM for privatization in a phased
manner with the support of the Privatization and Utility Reform Project, approved in June 2000. This
project would assist the Government with the necessary studies and due diligence work. The strategy for
privatization is still under discussion and has not received political approval. In the interim, Government is
considering strengthening ESCOM's management and board.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The project was based on a detailed least cost development plan and engineering studies. The focus on the
physical objectives of improving the power system was consistent with Government's investment policy and
the Bank's country assistance strategy. The project was also consistent with the Bank's energy sector
strategy at the time of appraisal, which emphasized least-cost development of infrastructure (The Bank's
new Power Sector Policy, focusing on commercialization of power utilities and regulatory reform was
developed in 1993). The skill mix of the appraisal mission was appropriate for the project. The Bank's
assistance to ESCOM in preparing the physical components was satisfactory and the working relationship
was good. The SAR was detailed and well prepared, identifying project risks and performance monitoring
guidelines.
The project's economic analysis incorporated the main risks, which were the underestimation of capital
costs, overestimation of demand growth, and implementation delays. In retrospect, it is clear that even the
"low case" demand forecast used in the sensitivity analysis was over-optimistic. The base case assumed an
annual demand growth of about 7%, which was similar to the actual increase in ESCOM's sales during the
period 1985 to 1989, while the sensitivity analysis was performed on a 20% lower growth, i.e. on an
average annual growth of about 5.6%. The actual sales increased on average was only 3.6% per year
during the period from 1991 to 1999.
In hindsight, there were two areas where the Bank could have been more forward looking: co-financing and
tariffs. In regard to co-financing, it would have been beneficial to minimize the gap before presenting the
- 12 -



project to the Board. In regard to tariffs, a clear implementation plan could have been agreed with
Government, including some form of adjustment mechanism to respond to currency fluctuations and ensure
marginal cost coverage. As it happened, these two issues became the major themes of implementation.
The financing gap caused a significant delay in effectiveness and the Bank had to waive the cross
effectiveness conditionalities of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to declare the Credit effective.
Eventually, the Bank had to cancel the un-funded transmission and distribution rehabilitation components,
thus impeding the achievement of the projects reliability and system efficiency objective.
7.2 Supervision:
Over the six years of project implementation, there were about 2 missions per year in conformity with the
supervision plan in the SAR. Regular supervision teams included a Power Engineer, a Financial Analyst,
an Economist, and in the final years also a Financial Management Specialist and an Infrastructure Officer,
both from the Resident Mission. Environmental and Resettlement Specialists visited the site as required to
review implementation of the environmental and social mitigation measures. Although there were two
changes in the team leader, transitions were smooth because of the continued participation of the same
power engineer and financial analyst. The staff at the Resident Mission provided effective support during
and in between missions. Coordination with the project's co-financiers and other power sector donors was
good, deepening towards the end of the project in an effort to harmonize donor support to the power sector.
The project's quality assurance plans were adequate. They made effective use of the Energy Sector Board
staff, Procurement Advisor, and the Africa Region's Quality and Knowledge Management staff. The
Africa Region's legal and procurement staff provided support in pertinent matters and senior management
took the lead in policy dialogue.
Follow-up letters to supervision missions were regularly prepared and transmitted to the Government and
ESCOM alerting them to the key issues with project execution and suggesting corrective actions in
conformity with Bank procedures. Aide Memoires and the Project Status Reports effectively reported on
progress and lack of progress and adequately justified the project's performance ratings both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Following three years of
"Unsatisfactory" ratings, the achievement of the project's development objective was upgraded to
"Satisfactory" in October 1999, after the Government had shown increasing committment to the project
through the implementation of agreed actions such as initiating the financial restructuring of ESCOM,
payment of electricity arrears by the Army, Police, and the State Residencies, and initiating the preparation
of a Power Policy Statement. In addition, the Electricity Council approved a 15% tariff increase and the
use of a tariff adjustment mechansism to allow for unforeseen movements in the exchange rates. With
these improvements, ESCOM's financial position was forecast to improve markedly. The rating had to be
downgraded to "Unsatisfactory" after the final supervision mission in May 2000, because the actions did
not produce the expected improvements in ESCOM's performance due to lack of financial dicipline,
increased expenditure, lower revenue collection, and reduced sales, and follow up actions were yet to be
implemented.
During the latter part of implementation, supervision focused on the institutional and financial performance
because ESCOM's liquidity problems and the erosion in the quality of supply would potentially undermine
the sustainability of the project. The Bank provided assistance with the identification of potential
problems, suggestions and guidance to implementing agencies for proactive or corrective actions. The
Bank repeatedly raised the issues of tariff reform and improved management of the financial and
commercial aspects of ESCOM's operations and provided detailed advice on available options. In view of
the political considerations associated with such issues, the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
was sometimes difficult. However, even though the necessary measures were not always taken, the Bank
did not use its remedies under the credit agreement, but emphasized negotiated solutions instead, so as not
- 13-



to disrupt the construction of Kapichira. In retrospect, it would be tempting to conclude that the Bank
could have been more proactive in applying its remedies, particularly during the first years of project
start-up when no contracts had been signed and, despite the Bank's repeated requests, the Government had
failed to take the actions needed to comply with the agreements reached under the Project. The Bank's
action should, however, be seen in a larger context -- it would have been difficult to take strong action with
a new democratically elected government for the first time in 30 years. Later on, after the main
construction contracts had been signed, suspension of the project would arguably have caused significant
disruptions of the physical progress in dam construction and also distressed relations with co-financiers.
The Bank demonstrated proactive supervision through stopping the proposed Supplementary Credit to
finance the transmission and distribution components because ESCOM's financial viabilty was not restored
and through intensive dialogue with the Borrower and the careful management of the extensions of the
closing date.
The credit was extended twice. In March 1998 the Government requested a two year extension of the
credit closing date, from June 30, 1998 to June 30, 2000, to make up for the 18 month delay in
effectiveness. After the Government had met the extension conditions including a 35% tariff increase,
conversion of ESCOMvs unpaid debt service due to the Government to equity, and submission of a new
Electricity Bill for Parliament approval, the Bank extended the credit for one year only because additional
measures were needed to put ESCOM on firmer financial footing. In 1999, the Bank extended the credit
for the second year following the Government implementing the agreed actions and the subsequent
upgrading of project performance to "Satisfactory" as discussed above. The need for these extensions was
implicit in the fact that: (i) effectiveness was delayed by 18 months which meant that an extension was
necessary just to keep to the original length of time estimated for construction of Kapichira (ii) the
conditions that were put and met for each extension; (iii) the various changes which led the Bank to hope
things would improve (restructuring and corporatization of ESCOM; financial restructuring; management
changes etc.); and (iv) perhaps the concerns regarding the costs (literal and reputational) of stopping
Kapichira midstream. The Bank's conditions for the second extension, including improved financial
performance, were not well taken by the co-financiers, who were concemed that such conditions could
potentially delay the construction of Kapichira.
In consultations with the co-financiers, the Bank did not extend the project a third time, as requested by the
Government, owing to continued unsatisfactory performance in meeting the agreed legal provisions in the
credit agreements. The project closed on June 30, 2000. Recognizing, however, the Governmenes
proposed efforts to improve project performance, the Bank agreed to consider additional financing to cover
any needed work after the closing date if concrete actions were taken within three months after project
closure. Subsequently, the Government started the process of recruiting a new management team for
ESCOM, but had not completed it by the time of writing this ICR.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Although the Bank could have been even more proactive in the early years of implementation, considering
the intensive supervision towards the end of the project and careful management of the closing date, Bank
performance, on balance, was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ESCOM was strongly committed to the hydropower component of the project. It had a team of committed
and capable people working closely with the Bank in the preparation of the project. The Government, on
the other hand, lacked a similar sense of commitment to the project's non-power component, and was thus a
weak partner of the Bank during project preparation.
- 14 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation performance of the Government was unsatisfactory because it did not take the lead in
keeping the project on track. In particular, it did not convey a sense of urgency to improve the financial
and operational performance of ESCOM despite increasing black-outs and service disruptions. In 1999,
Government did, however, take major steps towards securing the financial sustainability of the sector; in
addition to a tariff increase, the Government initiated the financial restructuring of ESCOM by converting
a portion of its debt to Government to equity in lieu of a larger tariff increase. Largely because of the
sector's inefficiency, this did not lead to expected outcomes.
The Government did not take full ownership of the project's non-power components. Only at the end of the
project did the Energy Department, renergized under its new parent ministry, the Ministry of Environmental
Affairs and Natural Resources, take action in developing an energy policy.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
ESCOM's Project Management Team and its Environmental Unit performed satisfactorily. The Project
Management Team played an active role during implementation, interacted professionally with the Bank,
co-financiers, the Panel of Experts, and contractors, and produced progress reports with the agreed
frequency and quality. The exception was the billing system where lack of experience, over confidence on
the contractor, and lack of senior management support and clear transition guidelines delayed its
commissioning. Management and execution of the environmental and social mitigation measures were
highly satisfactory. (See Additional Information on the environmental and social aspects in Section 10).
ESCOM's overall operational and financial performance was inadequate. It was frequently not in
compliance with the credit covenants and it deferred maintenance expenditure and accumulated payment
arrears to lending institutions. ESCOM's financial crisis results from a political and corporate governance
issue, a tariff reform issue, and an internal management issue. Several senior management changes, lack of
synchronization of management activities, and the non-coordinated implementation of the utility's internal
restructuring adversely affected the Corporation's operations and the morale of its staff. It did also not
make best use of the assistance and advice offered by the Bank and the co-financiers to improve its
administrative and financial practices.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the above, especially the continuous deterioration of ESCOM, the Borrower's overall
performnance was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Project Lending
* Delays in obtaining committed cofinancing seriously impacted the outcome of this project. The ICR
therefore proposes that cofinanciers should participate in project preparation beginning from
pre-appraisal, at which time a cooperation strategy, sanctioned by the senior management of the
cofinancing agencies, should be prepared and agreed upon. Cofinanciers should also participate in the
appraisal and negotiations of the credit where conditionalities will be tuned to ensure timely
implementation of the project. During negotiations the co-financiers should also agree on the kind of
support they will provide to the supervision of the project.
* The subdivision of the project into numerous contract packages because of co-financing considerations
led to coordination problems during implementation.
-15 -



*   The project demonstrated clearly the linkage between the achievement of the project's development
objectives and policy reforms. Key reforms, such as those relating to tariffs and institutional
framework should be assessed thoroughly at appraisal and agreement on a reform platform should be
sought before implementation begins to ensure Borrower ownership. Investment project conditionality
is a weak vehicle to promote an appropriate institutional framework. Commercialization and private
sector participation should be pursued in parallel as part of the overall macroeconomic framework.
This is now being done through the recently approved Privatization and Utility Reform project.
*  Energy lending to Malawi should focus on the following four priorities: expanding access to modem
energy; increasing private participation to reduce the fiscal burden of the energy sector; improving
reliability; and increasing regional integration and energy trade.
Supervision
*  A flexible attitude in reallocating funds when circumstances changed was critical in achieving
satisfactory outcomes. The Bank reallocated funds to cover a portion of the financing gap and thus
helped the project in achieving its most critical generation rehabilitation objective. The financing
provided for advisory services for sector restructuring, even though this was not a specific project
component, helped the Government to initiate the reform process.
*  If environmental and social mitigation measures are adequately designed and implemented, a sector
investment project can contribute significantly to improving the living standards of the population
beyond the project area. The project also demonstrated that a participatory approach to the
implementation of environmental and social mitigation measures created a trust between the
implementing agency and the project-affected people and local communities and thus contributed to the
successful outcome.
*  The implementation of initial sector reforms is not an indicator of government ownership and without
political consensus the pace of reform will be slow. The creation of a separate electricity sector
regulator was not supported by social and political commitment to reform, which compromised its
autonomy and thereby its impact on the economic regulation of the sector.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi Limited (ESCOM):
INTRODUCTION
The Malawi Power V Project as envisaged and consolidated at appraisal by the World Bank in
consultation with the Project and Cofinanciers comprised Power and Non-Power Components. The Power
Component included Kapichira Hydro-electric Power Scheme; Generation Rehabilitation; Transmission
Reinforcement; Distribution Reinforcement and Institutional Strengthening of ESCOM. The Non-Power
Component consisted of Energy Planning and Policy; Petroleum Supply and Energy Efficiency on wood
fuel resources. The Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM) was the Executing Agency for
the Power Component of the Project.
- 16 -



BACKGROUND
A study to determine the Least Cost Power Development Programme was initially commissioned in 1984
and was carried out by Messrs. Tippets-Abbot-McCarthy-Stration (TAMS) Inc. of the United States of
America. The study examined a full range of options, both hydro and non-hydro power generation. The
hydro options included a review of electric power development potentials on the main rivers in Malawi
including the South Rukuru, the Bua and Shire Rivers. This study essentially concluded that hydro-power
development should continue on the Shire River with candidate development projects identified as
Kapichira, Tedzani III, Mpatamanga, and Kholombidzo hydro schemes, to be developed in that
chronological order.
However, in 1988, following a further study carried out by Kennedy and Donkin of the United Kingdom
to review the Least Cost Power Development Programme, with particular attention on the ranking
between Kapichira and Tedzani III demonstrated and concluded on the basis of least cost that Tedzani III
should be implemented before Kapichira. Tedzani III was therefore implemented earlier, under the Energy
I Project.
The Kapichira hydro-electric power scheme was to be implemented immediately after Tedzani III in two
phases. Through optimization in the feasibility studies carried out and concluded by TAMS in 1993, the
scheme would have a total capacity of 128 MW comprising 4x32MW generating units when fully
developed.
Further review of the entire ESCOM system concluded that the development of the hydro-electric power
generation should be supplemented by rehabilitation of the old existing generation plants. It was also
deemed necessary to reinforce the transmission and distribution networks to complement the power
generation.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Primary objectives of the Power Component of the Malawi Power V Project were to: (i) increase the
electric power generating capacity in order to meet the increasing demand for electric power up to the turn
of the century and possibly beyond (up to 2003), through the construction of the Kapichira Hydro-electric
Power Scheme; (ii) improve the electric power generation reliability and enhance generation capacity
through rehabilitation of the existing old hydro, standby gas and diesel power plants; (iii) improve the
quality and reliability of the power supply through reinforcing the transmission and distribution system;
and (iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of ESCOM through training of personnel and computerization
of financial and technical operations.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    Project Launch
Due to a number of factors, the project launch was delayed by about 18 months until 1994. Before the
project could be launched, donor Support to Malawi had been frozen owing to issues of political
governance of the then regime prior to the democratization process. Another factor that contributed to the
delay was the withdrawal of the African Development Bank (AfDB) from co-financing the civil works.
This development created a financing gap. As a pre-condition to the effectiveness of the funding
agreements, it was required that the ESCOM tariff be adjusted upwards, but this tariff adjustment was not
granted by the Government in good time, and therefore delayed the effectiveness of the funding agreements.
- 17-



2.    Kapichira Hydro Electric Power Scheme
a.    Engineering. The Engineering Consultancy Services for the project were entrusted to Messrs.
Tippets-Abbott-McCarthy-Stratton (TAMS) Inc. of the USA, in joint venture with Knight Piesold Limited
of the United Kingdom and in association with Merz Maclellan, also of the United Kingdom. The
Consultancy services were divided into three stages. The Contract was awarded in December 1992 and the
services commenced in January 1993, prior to the official project launch. These were financed under the
IDA Project Preparation Facility.
b.    Procurement. Construction works for the project were split into several packages, each
constituting a separate contract. The first two lots comprised advance infrastructure works, namely:
Contract KAP46: Access Road and Bridge; Contract KAP-07: Housing and Infrastructure. The advance
infrastructure works, especially the access road and bridge, were on a 'critical path' and, as such, they had
to be awarded as early as possible. The whole process of tender documentation for various packages, right
from prequalification documentation, took too long because of the requirement for review; of the documents
by numerous funding institutions, each requiring to be satisfied before giving a no objection to issue
invitations for bids.
When the bids were received, ESCOM proceeded to evaluate the bids in consultation with the Consulting
Engineer. However, the funding institutions also played a very active role even in the detailed analysis and
evaluation of the tenders. Whereas it was a normal requirement that the financiers' consent would have to
be obtained prior to award of contracts to the recommended bidders, in one case this proved to be a big
impediment to the procurement process.
c.    Performance of Contracts. In the original construction planning, at the end of feasibility studies,
the programme had assumed award of the Advance Infrastructure Contracts in March 1994, followed by
award of the Main Civil Works in July 1995. With such a programme, commissioning of Unit No. 1 was
foreseen to take place in August 1998 and of Unit No.2 in November 1998. However, due to delays
experienced prior to contract awards, the project programme had to be revised. The change in contract
award and commencement dates heralded potential problems in the scheduling of the site activities and in
trying to mitigate the impact of this on the original completion dates, a revised programme was hurriedly
worked out which in effect used up the much needed buffer times between activities.
The most significant delay during the project implementation was the main civil works, in particular, the
powerhouse excavations. For no apparent reason, the powerhouse excavations and subsequent construction
works extremely dragged and prolonged and this consequently derailed the entire project programme. This
project derailment had extremely adverse knock-on effects on the subsequent installation of the electrical
and mechanical works.
In an analysis of the problems causing the delays at this stage of the project implementation, it became
apparent in the opinion of ESCOM Project Management that the Main Civil Works Contractor had not
mobilized adequate suitable equipment to cany out the works. This was evidenced by the construction
through-put being much lower than indicated in the bid. It was also evident that in certain cases, the
approved construction methodologies were not being adhered to. Another observation was that the site
construction team did not have the much needed home office support in time of need.
During equipment installation, various installation activities had to be re-scheduled as dictated by the
progress on the civil works. As time went by, each contractor was inclined to rush to complete their part of
- 18 -



the works without regard to the essence of equipment interfacing. This made coordination of various
contracts by the consulting engineer very critical .and no easy task. The project programme eventually
became irrelevant for the day- to-day monitoring of site activities progress. Instead, the Consulting
Engineer devised a Coordination programme which was being reviewed on a monthly basis.
General cooperation amongst the contractors was also lacking at times. This was so either because each
contractor was only concerned about safeguarding his own contract, in a crisis situation, or merely a
problem associated with difference of nationalities. Some contractors would even demobilize from site
temporarily until they arbitrarily decided that there was enough work to warrant their presence on-site,
despite there being plenty of other works to keep them busy in the opinion of the engineer.
d.    Design Changes During Construction. The basic design concept for this project remained the
same until completion. However, certain design changes to specific civil structures and electro mechanical
equipment, recommended by either the Panel of Experts or the Consulting Engineer or even proposals made
by the Contractors, were taken into account and implemented, as necessary, after careful review. Such
changes either improved the quality of the finished works, improved the performance of the installed
equipment or simply yielded economic benefits to the project. Some of the notable design changes were
cofferdams and training dike, main embankment dam, tunnel and shafts, surge chamber, powerhouse and
tailrace, main access road, turbines, cranes, ventilation and air conditioning system, generators, GIS
substation equipment, transformers, and general electrical equipment.
e.    Commissioning. Dam commissioning and reservoir impounding was accomplished between
October and November 1999. Commissioning of the generating units commenced in May 2000 and
continued until June 2000. Finally, the actual Unit On-Line and Commercial Operation dates for the
generating units were achieved as follows:
Unit No. I    On-Line                   June 14,2000
Unit No. 1    Commercial Operation      June 22, 2000
Unit No. 2    On-Lire                   June 30, 2000
Unit No. 2    Commercial Operation      July 07, 2000
The official inauguration of the Kapichira Hydro-Electric Power Scheme took place on September 30,
2000.
f      Operation. The Kapichira Hydro-Electric Power Scheme is now fully operational. In preparation
for the operation, a comprehensive training programme was incorporated in the project implementation,
from design through procurement, construction and commissioning. ESCOM engineers and technicians
underwent training with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers at their head offices and factories, and
on-the-job training during installation on site. The trained personnel are now operating the station and with
operation and maintenance manuals provided by the equipment suppliers the ESCOM personnel is well
equipped to undertake any necessary maintenance during the life of the plant.
ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
Achievement of Objectives. With completion of Kapichira phase I, an additional 64 MW to the electricity
generation system has been realized, thereby increasing the total generation capacity from 218.5 MW to
282.5 MW. This development has been just in time to meet the growing demand for power, otherwise the
system was without any reserve margin due to delayed implementation and late completion of the project.
- 19-



Dredging of the Nkula reservoir, as part of the generation rehabilitation, restored partially the lost pondage
capacity of the reservoir, and this yielded tangible increase in the machine output. Complete rehabilitation
of the hydro and thermal plants to improve their availability has been beset by funding constraints.
However, over the years, ESCOM has continued to undertake limited rehabilitation through maintenance
programmes using own internal resources. Currently, some funding has been obtained from KfW and the
funds will be used to purchase essential spares for Nkula 'B' machines only.
Due to funding constraints, the Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation was never carried out under
the Project Nevertheless, ESCOM has over the years carried out ad hoc rehabilitation of the transmission
lines to just maintain acceptable levels of quality of power supply. Now that Kapichira is completed, more
effort is being made on rehabilitation of the transmission lines and distribution network. Otherwise the
specific objective of improving the quality of power supply as envisaged at appraisal of the project has
hardly been accomplished due to lack of funding for this component.
As part of institutional strengthening of ESCOM, some limited training has been carried out under the
project. In one case, training was done through attachment of ESCOM staff to the consulting engineer who
was assigned to carry out a study to determine the Least Cost Power Development after Kapichira Phase 1.
The envisaged Management Information System has not been fully implemented; this again being due to
lack of funding. In fact, only computerization of the Billing System has been implemented under the
Project.
PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPANTS
a. Funding Institutions : The following funding institutions participated in the project: World Bank (IDA),
European Investment Bank (EIB), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), and Nederlandse Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden (FMO). The
local component was funded by ESCOM.
Throughout implementation of the project, the funding institutions participated with considerable zeal.
Their commitment was demonstrated right from works and equipment procurement through their
participation in tender documentation and evaluation processes. During construction, the funding
institutions maintained a close monitoring of the project through progress reports submitted by ESCOM
Project Management in collaboration with the Consulting Engineer. Periodic supervision mission visits
were also conducted as part of their project supervision and monitoring. All these were commendable
efforts on the part of the funding institutions in trying to steer the project in the right direction to achieve
the set objectives.
It was very unfortunate, however, that in spite of being very close partners in the project implementation,
and of all the funding institutions the World Bank, a lead partner, failed to appreciate the problems that the
project encountered. During the supervision mission visits the Bank was thoroughly apprised of the status
of the project and well informed of the problems being encountered in all aspects of project implementation.
Together, the Bank and the Executing Agency would discuss the problems and decide on appropriate
remedial measures. Most of the problems during implementation arose from coordination difficulties of
multiple contracts. Apart from equipment interfacing difficulties, the difference of nationality amongst
contractors had a considerable bearing on the coordination problems. This problem had been alluded to
during the Bank's and other co-financiers' supervision visits. The re-arrangement of the financing plan
- 20 -



which necessitated splitting up the generating equipment into separate contracts for generators and turbines
was another factor that caused delays at the tendering stage.
In view of the numerous problems cited above that caused delays on the project, the Bank, having played
an instrumental and active role in the process, should have considered an extension to the closing date of
the Development Credit Agreement, especially considering that the project was, at the time, nearing
completion.
Whereas the reasons for closing of the Development Credit Agreement were said to be non-compliance by
the Govemment and the Executing Agency with performance requirements, the Bank should have taken
cognizance of and considered the fact that at the time the implementing agency, ESCOM, was being asked
to restructure and commercialize,.preparing for possible privatization. This exercise demanded
considerable effort and resources in terms of time and finance, among others, at all levels of Management,
and the time frame given, i.e. by 31 March 2000, was too short.
The processes of restructuring and commercializing were an unfamiliar development and in the absence of
clear guidelines, ESCOM was literary groping in the dark. The organization was thrown into disarray and
lost focus on the normal operations and hence affected its performance adversely, including focus on the
Project.
Whereas the Bank and other co-financiers had been good partners, with a common goal to see the project
through to successful completion, the Bank's action with regard to the closing of the Development Credit
Agreement was most unfortunate and contrary to the Bank's rationale for its involvement, as understood at
the appraisal of the project.
b. The Borrower: The Borrower's most significant role was during negotiations for funding, up to signing
of funding agreements with the respective funding institutions. The Borrower also played significant role in
the approval process for contract awards. Performance of the Borrower in the above activities was quite
satisfactory except where tariff adjustments were to be considered as a pre-requisite to some funding
agreements. Granting and effecting of the tariff adjustments was delayed and this affected the effectiveness
of the funding agreements which consequently had a bearing on the late launching of the project.
During implementation, the Borrower's participation was mostly in processing applications for
disbursement for payment on goods and services. The Borrower's performance in this aspect was generally
satisfactory in so far as most payments were made within the times stipulated in the contracts.
c. The Executing Agency. The Electricity Supply Corporation of Malawi Limited, formerly known as the
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM), was the Executing Agency for the Power Component
of the Project. ESCOM played a key role right from project inception, through studies and designs and
finally procurement, installation and commissioning.
The project was the first of its kind, in terms of magnitude and complexity, that ESCOM had ever
undertaken. The role played by ESCOM in coordinating numerous exacting tasks at professional level,
right from project inception through designs, specifications, procurement and implementation, was no easy
task. The project was implemented during a time when the nation was going through economic hardship.
Against the backdrop of economic hardship and operational disruptions caused by the imposed
restructuring process of the organization, ESCOM, through its Project Implementation Unit (PIU) backed
by an enthusiastic and high caliber Management, was determined to proceed with the project to a successful
- 21 -



completion. Even for the components that lacked donor funding like generation, rehabilitation, transmission
and distribution reinforcement, ESCOM endeavored to tackle the problems from its own limited resources.
It would only be fair, therefore, to rate ESCOM's performance quite satisfactory, especially considering
that most of the factors that affected progress on the project were not of ESCOM's own making but rather
beyond ESCOM's control.
LESSONS LEARNED
Some lessons learned by ESCOM from participation in the project as an Executing Agency may be cited as
follows:
*  Thoroughness in project planning, right from feasibility studies leading to project inception,
specification, procurement and implementation, is of paramount importance. Detailed data collection
for the project design such as hydrological and geological data in the case of a hydro power project is
of equally paramount importance. However, in the case of the Power V Project, lack of detailed
hydrological data led to miscalculations on the design of the access road and associated culverts on
river crossings.
*  Attention to detail in equipment specification, especially where multiple contracts are foreseen, is very
critical in order to minimize subsequent coordination and interfacing problems of various equipment
which may result cost and time overruns.
9  Whereas the principle of subdividing the project works into numerous packages may be considered
advantageous, either in respect of price competitiveness or to have as many beneficiaries as possible
from member countries of the financing institutions, care needs to be exercised to optimize and limit the
number of packages in view of potential coordination problems during implementation which, like in
the case of the Kapichira Project, contributed to delays and compromise in the quality of the finished
work.
*   In the case of civil works, post-qualification of contractors, especially with respect to their proposed
equipment and experience of supervision personnel, should have been given prime consideration. What
the contractor proposed at the pre-qualification and tender may not have been the same as what was
actually mobilized to site.
* Thorough knowledge of the governing procurement rules and international conditions of contract is
imperative for all participants in a project; the financiers, the consulting engineers, the Executing
Agency, Project Implementation Unit and contractors alike. This is important for effective and
efficient project management, contract administration and works supervision, in general.
*  Funding institutions should develop flexibility in their rules to take into account of economic 'force
majeure' that may befall the borrower nation. In such eventualities, the funding institutions should
evaluate the circumstances and assist in the best way possible rather than inflict penalties for apparent
non-performance caused by factors beyond the Borrower's or Executing Agency's control. The project
suffered such a penalty by the closure of the IDA Development Credit Agreement.
*   On a more positive note, ESCOM as the Executing Agency, has gained considerable experience both at
project management level and actual hands-on on construction and operation. Such experience will go
a long way in capably handling future projects.
- 22 -



CONCLUSIONS
The Power Component of the Project has been a partial success in so far as achievement of the objectives is
concerned. Only Kapichira Hydro-Electric Power Project was completed fully to achieve the specific
objective of increasing the power generation capacity to meet the increasing demand for electric power. The
delay in the implementation of the Kapichira project, fortunately, did not critically affect the capacity to
meet the demand for electricity. This was only fortuitous, apparently because the actual growth of
electricity demand has been slower than forecast at the time of project appraisal. However, the scheme was
commissioned just in time, not only to obviate the problem of insufficient reserve generation margin, but
also to increase the much needed capacity to meet the increasing demand for electricity in the early part of
this new century/millennium. The current Power Development Programme needs to be looked at more
critically to re-assess the priorities, particularly with respect to the options between development of
Kapichira Phase 2 and interconnection with the neighboring countries under the Southern Africa Power
Pool Programme.
Effort should now concentrate on reviving that untackled and uncompleted power sub-components, namely:
Transmission and Distribution, System Rehabilitation and Reinforcement in order to complement the
increased power generation.
In the same spirit that the donor community assisted in the Kapichira Hydro-electric project, they should
now come forward to support the Government's and ESCOM's efforts to rehabilitate and reinforce the
transmission and distribution systems, otherwise the objective to improve reliability of supply which is
critical to the Nation's development will never be realized.
The Management Information System part of the Institutional Strengthening should be revised and
re-assess the scope. Implementation, of this component should also be pursued with no less vigour in order
to achieve the necessary Operational Management efficiency.
(b) Cofinanciers:
KfW:
Project objectives were achieved to some degree. Kapichira power plant is in operation with only some
relatively minor technical snags. However, ESCOM's financial and overall operating performance is still
not satisfactory. For instance, despite tariff hike on I October 2000, it is not cost-covering and have rarely
been so in the course of implementation. In addition, technical and non-technical losses with 17.8 %
(4/99-3/00) stand above 15 % aimed at beginning of project. Projected generation demand has not been
achieved either.
The design of the project as well as the design of implementation arrangements were by and large
appropriate. However, earlier and more intensive donor coordination and joint supervision might have been
helpful. The institutional development impact of the project is not yet discernible.
Sustainability of the project outcome and output would be likely only if sectoral reforms are implemented,
i.e. ESCOM is ultimately privatized. Transition arrangements to regular operation of the project are not
adequate. The consultant, for instance, is not on site any more despite a long snag list and some items, e.g.
crane for trash racks not in operation/commissioned or computerized control system does not allow
metering of power generation from the plant.
- 23 -



While the Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory, ESCOM's performance during
implementation was satisfactory. In particular, ESCOM's Environmental Unit performed well during the
execution of the project.
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency that affected implementation were: (a)
rainfalls and flooding in late 1997; (b) varying donor procedures on procurement and disbursement; (c)
rapid depreciation of the Malawi Kwacha resulting in the need for tariff increases. Factors which were
under government control, that affected implementation were: (a) late and less than required tariff hikes; (b)
non or late payment of government electricity bills; (c) sluggish progress in restructuring ESCOM; (d)
apparent lack of political resolve to tackle the deep-rooted inefficiency of ESCOM 's top management.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control that affected implementation related to all matters
relating to operational and financial performance of ESCOM not subject to those mentioned above.
EIB:
The problems due to the introduction of the new billing system arose to a large amount due to a lack of
planning, combined with a complete lack of proper procedures and controls for any system modifications
(change control procedures), apparent lack of proper segregation of duties, and full parallel system testing
prior to implementation.
Under Lessons Learned, perhaps we should include the importance of close co-financier co-ordination.
Perhaps a joint co-financier strategy could be established at the project appraisal stage, such that there is a
clear mechanism for exerting (joint) pressure on Government/Institution concerned, rather than only one
co-financier acting independently. This is likely to have a greater impact. The importance of ensuring that
all financing is in place prior to the project starting should also be stressed.
Perhaps any important strategy (such as private sector participation) should be agreed by all parties
concerned (including joint co-financiers) as a condition-precedent to financing, so that all parties concerned
are aware of the future strategy, and can decide whether they wish to finance the project.
In view of some of the problems encountered with this project, could a mechanism be established whereby
the co-financiers agree, at the outset of the project, that failure to meet a series of pre-defined project
targets/objectives would jeopardise the financing unless the promoter was able to show that these
targets/objectives had been met (within certain time delays).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Environmental and Social Aspects
As part of the recommendations of the EA, an environmental management unit (EMU) was established
within ESCOM. The EMU at ESCOM opted for a participatory approach for the implementation of the
environmental and the social mitigation measures identified in the EA. The EMU established
multi-disciplinary Task Forces to ensure maximum transparency and ownership. These Task Forces
included representatives from the public sector and civil society organizations, such as local government
representatives from social welfare, education, forestry, land, national parks, physical planning, the labor
-24 -



office, the police, and NGOs such as, the Red Cross and the Wildlife Society of Malawi. The roles and
responsibilities of Task Force participants were defined and ESCOM covered the costs of these activities.
Overall, the implementation of the mitigation measures for the Project was well managed and executed.
ESCOM took adequate measures to minimize the negative environmental impacts of the project. Some of
these measures included: environmental protection clauses in contractors' contracts, support to the
Department of National Parks and Wildlife for wildlife protection at the Majete game reserve where
Kapichira is located, support to the National Herbarium and Botanical Gardens for the propagation of rare
plants for re-introduction into the Kapichira site, support to the Water Department for water quality
monitoring, and support to the Wildlife Society of Malawi to alleviate deforestation.
The project did not involve resettlement in terms of moving people from their homes, or their land and thus
disrupting the socio-economic integrity. The social impacts were generally limited to compensating
households for loss of property. Fifty-one households and their houses were moved from the right of way
for a transmission line and one house was moved due to the construction of the access road to Kapichira.
No house was moved more than 300 meters from its place of origin. The construction of the dam at
Kapichira itself did not involve relocation. ESCOM compensated each household adequately and in excess
of the Government's standard rates. ESCOM also provided the host communities with improved social
welfare infrastructure including a primary school, a health clinic, a water well bore-hole, a maize mill, and
a produce market. The cultural gender aspects associated with ownership of property within the matrilineal
culture of the project area were respected. Based on continued supervision, the Bank's environmental and
resettlement experts have concluded that people affected by the project have benefited from the
implementation of the mitigation measures.
Benefits of Environmental and Social Management
The benefits of the environmental work have gone beyond the limits of the project area. The EMU at
ESCOM has contributed to the overall environmental management of the project area by acting as a
coordinating entity for mitigation in a multi-disciplinary manner. The EMU interventions have gone
beyond the site specific/construction related mitigation and contributed to enhanced health and safety for
communities, enhanced biodiversity conservation, afforestation, and enhanced community involvement in
the development process. Some of these benefits include:
- restoration and/or compensation of lost or disturbed bio-physical and social environment;
- environmental awareness raising within ESCOM, within the sector, among the contractors, among
national stakeholders in urban and rural areas;
- income generation for local communities who participated in environmental mitigation activities;
- restoration of livelihoods for project-affected persons;
- strengthening social cohesion by respecting women's cultural rights;
- strengthening of civil society by including NGOs in the mitigation of environmental and social
impacts;
- increased access to education, health facilities, and potable water;
- improved wildlife management and park services including protection, monitoring and research; and
- enhancing ESCOM's environmental and social records and documentation.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I lmpact Indicators:
1. Installed hydro capacity increased from   263 MW                         266 MW
199 MW in 1995 to 263 MW in mid-2000.
2. ESCOM's debt service coverage is 1.5 in 1.5                              1.3
FY2001.
3. Electricity tariffs are adequate to cover    64 US CentsikWh in FY 2001  4.1 US Cents/kWh in FY 2001
financial costs and structure reflects the
economic cost of supply.
4. Key renewable and household energy  Program implementation is well underway.  Implementation yet to start.
strategies implermnted by mid-2000.
5. Electricity sales increase from 730 GWh  865 GWh                         870 GWh
in FY95 to 865GWh in FY2001.
6. ESCOM's self financing ratio is 30% in  30%                              20%
FY2001.
7. ESCOM's accounts receivables do not   60 days                            88 days
exceed 60 days of billing.
8. Transmission and distribution losses  13%                                17.6%
reduced by FY2001 (measured in % of net
generation).
Output Indicators:
1. Kapichira commissioned by mid-2000.   82% complete                       100% complete
2. Nkula reservoirdredging completed by   Compled in July 1999.             Completed in July 1999.
end-1999.
3. Power System Development Study     Study completed in December 1998.     Study completed.
completed by end-1 998.
4. New Y2K compliant billing system   Billing system installed.             Billing system was installed in December
installed by end-1999.                                                      1999 and minor problems were being
remedied at dosing.
5. Liberalization of the petroleum sub-sector Framework for liberalizabon in place by  Framework for liberaliation in place by
initiated by end-2000.                November 1999.                        end-2000.
6. 25 ESCOM staff trained by end-2000.                                      25 staff trained.
7. Studies on household energy and    Biomas study competed in December 1997. Both studies completed.
biomass use carried out.
8. Petroleum Study compled by end-2000. Study completed.                    Study completed.
End of project
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. p.a       ACtslLa         P,rcentage of
eBtkui        Esti_ut        Appraisal
1. Kapichira                                         115.20          131.52         114.17
2. Generation Rehabilitation                           3.77            5.43         144.03
3. Transmission Rein.                                 11.66
4. SCADA                                               1.32
5. Distribution Rein.                                 19.92
6. Institutional                                       1.92            2.07         107.81
7. Non-power Component                                 1.31            0.85          64.89
Total Baseline Cost                                  155.10          139.87
Physical Contingencies                               20.57
Price Contingencies                                  55.61
Total Project Costs             231.28
Total Financing Required             231.28          139.87
The total cost of Kapichira including contingency given in the SAR was US$173.97 million, which has to
be compared with the actual cost of US$131.52 million.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Cat%9Oy               2- -    __                       N.-.F.     Total Coat
1. Works                     109.27         0.00          0.00          0.00        109.27
(61.46)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (61.46)
2. Goods                      0.52          0.00          0.00         100.62       101.14
(0.50)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         20.47          0.00        20.47
(0.00)        (0.00)       (17.57)       (0.00)       (17.57)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.42         0.42
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      109.79        0.00          20.47        101.04       231.30
(61.96)       (0.00)       (17.57)       (0.00)       (79.53)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         28.20           0.00            0.00          44.97          73.17
(28.20)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (28.20)
2. Goods                          8.10            0.00           0.00           39.60         47.70
(8.10)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (8.10)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00          17.40           1.60           19.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (17.40)         (0.00)        (17.40)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         36.30            0.00          17.40           86.17         139.87
(36.30)         (0.00)         (17.40)        (0.00)         (53.70)
In addition, a PHRD grant financed about US $ 0.5 million of consultancy services.
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related tc
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project finds to local govermment units.
Project Financin  b  Com  onent in US$ million   uivalent)
1. Kapichira              51.06     54.78      67.73      46.70      16.70     66.70    91.5   30.5   98.5
2. Generation Rehab.      0.45       0.18       4.97      3.93       0.25       1.10    873.3  138.9   22.1
3. Transmission                      2.55      16.28                                             0.0    0.0
4. Distribution                      5.95      23.11                                            522.2   0.0
5. Institutional          2.24       0.09       0.40       1.60       0.47      0.40     71.4   522.2  100.0
6. Studies                                                0.45
7. Non-Power Component     1.25      0.09                 0.85                           68.0    0.0
-28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR calculated the economic rate of return for the power system investment and technical assistance
components combined. It also included the costs and benefits of Phase II of Kapichira in the calculation.
All costs and benefits were expressed in 1990 prices. Incremental operating and maintenance costs were
estimated at 2 % of the capital costs. Incremental benefits for the generation rehabilitation and
transmission and distribution reinforcement components were estimated separately from those of the
Kapichira hydroelectric plant. The benefits of the generation rehabilitation and the transmission and
distribution components were valued at the avoided cost of diesel generation (K 0.9/kWh); the benefits of
Kapichira at the planned 1998 tariff, deflated to a 1990 price equivalent (K 0.155/kWh). Benefits over
Kapichira's second 25 years of its assumed 50 year economic life were discounted to 2019 at a rate of 10%.
Based on the above assumptions, the SAR estimated the project's economic rate of return (ERR) at 16.1%.
A large portion of the benefits were to be accrued from the rehabilitation of the generation, transmission
and distribution systems. The SAR tested the sensitivity of the ERR to major project risks:
underestimation of capital costs and overestimation of demand growth. A 20% slower growth in demand
produced a rate of return of 12.1%.
The ex-post economic evaluation has broadly followed the methodology used in the SAR, though it has
been modified to take into account the changed configuration of investments due to the cancellation of the
rehabilitation of the transmission, distribution systems as well as the a portion of the generation
rehabilitation and thus economic benefits. The ICR re-estimated the ERR at about 11% assuming an
electricity demand growth of 5 % per year. If the annual demand grew only by 4%, the ERR would drop to
about 10%. The difference between the ex-post ERR estimate and the SAR estimate can be explained by
the reduction in benefits due to the cancellation of the rehabilitation components and by the lower than
expected growth in electricity demand (Table 2 below). However, the resultant impact was moderated by
the lower than expected capital cost of Kapichira. It can be noted that the ex-post ERR is close to the SAR
estimate of the ERR for Kapichira alone.
The value for benefits used in the SAR most likely underestimates the economic benefits of additional
supply since it did not include consumer surplus. If the ERR is re-calculated including an estimate of
consumer surplus in the benefits stream, the project would produce a 12 % rate of return even if annual
demand growth was less than 3% during the lifetime of the project.
- 29 -



Table 1. Ex-Post Estimation of Internal Economic Rate of Return
COSTS         BENEFITS
Year Capital O&M  Gen. Rehab Kapichira Gen Rehab. Kapichira Net Benefits
GWh         GWh       $ million    S million  S million
1992       0                                                               0
1993       0                                                               0
1994       3   0.2                                                         -3
1995      16   0.3                                                       -17
1996       4   0.3                                                        -5
1997      14   0.3                                                       -14
1998      19   0.3                                                       -19
1999      57   0.3          10         0          3.3         0          -54
2000      33   0.3          10        43          3.3         2          -27
2001      13   0.3          10        89          3.3         5            -5
2002       0   0.3          10       137          3.3         8           11
2003       0   0.3          10       187          3.3        11           14
2004       0   0.3          10       240          3.3        14           17
2005      20   0.4          10       296          3.3        17            0
2006      10   0.4          10       354          3.3        20           13
2007      10   0.4          10       415          3.3        24           17
2008       5   0.4          10       479          3.3        28           25
2009       0   0.4          10       547          3.3        31           34
2010       0   0.4           0       617            0        35           35
2011       0   0.4           0       658            0        38           37
2012-      0   0.4           0       658            0        38           37
2025       0 37.1            0      5.973           0       343          306
ERR: 11.2%
Table 2. Actual and projected electricity sales for fiscal years 1991/92 - 1999/00
)&rx&gMdi3l            MR9 I5M2%   MN19  M%4~ I9%  17Wi f97B VW~  MM)N
isp                         WSR        6(    V7   733   8I    E       925   90   I
A"         661  667   *1   73    72    743   8!   817    K
SisGc1                      S4R       6D/o X0%o  65D/o  691/o  74%   7.4%   7.(/o  7Jf/o
Akd       7S%/o  W/o  72/o  40%/o  4T/o  2.1%  7!/o  50/o  24
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   _    lmplementation  Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
April/90                      I   Environmental Specialist
October/90                    4   Power Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Forester
March/91                      3   Power Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Appraisal/Negotiation
August-September/91           3   Power Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Supervision
November/92                    I  Power Engineer                        S                 S
March-April/93                 2  Power Engineer, Resettlement          S                 S
Specialist
July/93                        I  Power Engineer                        S                 S
September/93                   I  Power Engineer                        S                 S
February/94                    3  Power Engineer, Financial             S                 S
Analyst, Forester
October/94                     I  Power Engineer                        S                 S
April-May/95                   3  Power Engineer, Financial             S                 S
Analyst, Environmental
Specialist
September/95                   I  Power Engineer                        S                 S
February/96                    3  Power Engineer, Financial             S                 U
Analyst, Environmental
December/96                    3  Specialist
Power Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Energy Economist,
June and September/97          3  Power Engineer, Energy                U                 U
Economist, Environmental
Specialist
April/98                       3  Power Engineer, Financial             S                 U
Analyst, Energy Economist,
September/98                  3  Power Engineer, Financial              S                 U
Analyst, Energy Economist,
March/99                       4  Power Engineer, Financial             S                 U
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Financial Management Specialist
October/99                     2  Environmental Specialist,             S                 S
Resettlement Specialist
- 31 -



December/99                      5   Power Engineer, Financial               S                   S
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Infrastructure Officer
May-July/2000                    7  Power Engineer, Financial                S                  U
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Infrastructure Officer,
Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist
ICR
May- July/2000                  7   Power Engineer, Financial                S                  U
Analyst, Energy Economist,
Infrastructure Officer,
Financial Management
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist, Resettlement
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of ProectCycle  :tf                    Act     atest Estimate
_______________________.             No. Staff  weeks                US$  (,o0o)
Identification/Preparation                 121.5                         292.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                       27.8                          79.3
Supervision                                186.5                         582.1
ICR                                          9.0                          35.3
Total                                      284.8                         988.6
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ISector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                              * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
2 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction               OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
B Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
N Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
N Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU   OHU
1 Overall                                            OHS OS   O u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS   OU  O HU
X Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS   *  u  O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 15, 2000; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Malawi Power V project dated May 19, 1992 (Report No. 10055-MAI)
-35 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23398
S   ,,pa  ORT~H                 A                                L    W
E*RUVRU                                                  ML
POWERV PROJECT
->  Ni       \           3                    *      Office
_>r-. Rivers                                Z                                                     Thermal Power
CHIWEAy                               U *     0Stations
O     Towns                                                                                     Hydro Power
{t   ttFUSW                              ~~~~~~~~~~Stations
*     District Capitals                       i     1                                           Major Substations
National Capital                                                                           Hytdro Power Stations
Rump                          *     ~~~~~~~~~Future (Investigated)
Region Boundaries                                                                         Possible Future
0  Hydra Power Stations
International                               Ekwenden      Lake    \_Mini Hydro Power
Boundories                                                                        ''     Stations Planned
&9e        4? lMzuzu h__
KTiN                                                     132kV O.H.L. Eisting
Chikon  owe        tHi                                     132 kV O.H.L.
/ } -  -  -  Under construction
.MreC iissepsptufut        PROJECT  Reinforcement of 132 kV  .H. L.
Muimba                                                     Operating at 66 kV
.i.lsoesa L           -      66 kV O.H.L. Existing
ZAMBIA                                                                                . . . .. 66 kV O.H.L. Planned
33 kVO.H.L. Existing
- - - - 33 kV O.H.L. Plonned
s > ~ < t o 4 .............  N ............ I. 11 kV C.H.L.
Kosungu\ 
90>    ,    ,lL,chHoo  Ntchisi 9k\   l  l   KILOMETERS 0   20   40   60   B0  100
/   t/  Mf1int       9"tW,\\\     \_   <             ~~~~~~~MILES 0  2     40       6
This mop has bee  prepared       0T
byThe World  Bet'k N
o reoders  ond  is hor the                                                                                  Lobk
internol use of The Wocld Bak          I.rCbhi.t
GOrup.The denonriotions  sed
ond the boundor-es shown
on this ma do not imp, on the
port of T . World an rGnupuP,-{                                             S         5   iod
ry judqment  n the ebo                                                | KHOLOMBIZI   1* Macingo
sts  ot ony territory or -nv
endorsemnt or acceptanoes o|\N                                                              Zombo          lwk
such boundories.                                                                                             w
TANZA                          FU7MP ATAt
ANGOL-         \           1  ) > / X PAL L5 w IN                      Chi
ZAMSIA                             ~~~~~~~~~~Schente       Nh
ZIMSBWE    MOtW( \l
NAMUBLA    Ss        )                                                               \       5 1N
gl BOTSWANA                  f H   R                                  \    <         :) l !Neanle
May 1992



