Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2386 MAI
                       (Fifth Power Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 2, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2386 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount of fifteen
million European Currency Units (ECU 15,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and EIB;
      (C)   the Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM)
intends to contract from the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) a loan (the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent to $25,000,000
to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CDC Loan Agreement) to be
Page  2
entered into between ESCOM and CDC;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank (AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 to assist in financing
Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and AfDB; and
      (E)   Part of the Project will be carried out by ESCOM with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ESCOM part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ESCOM;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 3, 1991 and June 17,
1991 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account A" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Special Account B" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ESCOM pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (e)   "ESCOM" means Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi,
established pursuant to the Electricity Act, Cap. 73:01 of the Laws
of Malawi;
      (f)   "EPD" means the Department of Economic Planning and
Development;
      (g)   "PCC" means the Petroleum Control Commission established
pursuant to the Petroleum Control Commission Act, Cap 50:08 of the
Laws of Malawi;
      (h)   "TCC" means the Tobacco Control Commission established
under Section 3 of the Control of Tobacco Auction Floors Act, Cap
65:03 of the Laws of Malawi;
      (i)   "IPPS" means the Borrower's investment program for the
power sub-sector; and
      (j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Page  3
Association and ESCOM, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-nine million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A through
E of the Project, open and maintain in United States Dollars a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts F through
H of the Project, open and maintain in United States Dollars a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2002 and ending January 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts F, G and H of the Project
                   with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with appropriate administrative and
                   financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                   as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources required for such Parts of the
                   Project; and
           (ii)    without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Development
                   Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ESCOM
                   to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable ESCOM to
Page  5
                   perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of fifty-three million seven hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($53,750,000) from the proceeds of the Credit to ESCOM under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ESCOM, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall include repayment of principal in
twenty years including a grace period of five (5) years, the payment
of interest at the rate of 7.23% per annum and the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by ESCOM.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A through E of the Project shall be carried out by ESCOM pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause EPD to supervise
the implementation of Part F of the Project and the implementation,
with effect from April 1, 1993, of the recommendations of the
ongoing study on energy pricing taking due account of the
Association's views on such recommendations; and
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause PCC and TCC to supervise the
implementation of Parts G and H of the Project, respectively.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project:
      (a)   annually consult with the Association and ESCOM on the
IPPS; and
      (b)   not cause ESCOM to undertake any capital investment in
excess of five million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent for any one
project not included in the IPPS unless the technical and economic
justification of such project is satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to conclude, or to enable ESCOM to conclude, by not later than June
30, 1993 appropriate financing agreements for the carrying out of
the transmission and distribution reinforcement works under Parts C
and D of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts F through H of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account B for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   ESCOM shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ESCOM will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall have failed to provide the
Association with evidence that the AfDB Loan Agreement has been duly
executed by February 28, 1993.
      (d)   The Electricity Act, Cap. 73:01 of the Laws of Malawi
Page  7
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ESCOM to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ESCOM or for the suspension of its operations.
      (f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower or ESCOM, as
                         appropriate, to withdraw the proceeds of
                         any loan or grant made to the Borrower or
                         ESCOM for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower or ESCOM establishes to
                   the satisfaction of the Association that: (A)
                   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower or ESCOM to perform any of its
                   obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                   adequate funds for the Project are available to
                   the Borrower or ESCOM from other sources on
                   terms and conditions consistent with the
                   obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ESCOM; and
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB
Loan Agreement and all conditions entitling ESCOM to make the first
drawdown from the CDC Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ESCOM, and is legally binding upon ESCOM in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
Page  8
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ESCOM and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ESCOM in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30049
            Capital City
            Lilongwe 3
            Malawi
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   44407
                   Lilongwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                         By /s/ Robert B. Mbaya
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ F. J. Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                                100% of foreign
     under Parts A.1                            expenditures
     and A.2 of the
     Project                  23,270,000
(2)  Equipment and                              100% of foreign
     Vehicles:                                  expenditures
     (a) office equip-
         ment under
         Part E.2 of
         the Project             330,000
     (b) vehicles and
         office equip-
         ment under
         Part H of the
         Project                 245,000
(3)  Consultants' services:                     100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
     (a) under Part A.8
         (a) of the Project    8,540,000
     (b) under Part A.8
         (b) of the Project      100,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (c) under Part E (i)
         of the Project        1,070,000
     (d) under Part F (i)
         of the Project          256,000
     (e) under Part F (ii)
         of the Project          135,000
     (f) under Part G
         of the Project          155,000
     (g) under Part H
         of the Project          256,000
(4)  Refunding of Project                       Amount due pur-
     Preparation Advance         715,000        suant to Section
                                                2.02 (d) of this
                                                Agreement
(5)  Unallocated               4,128,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                39,200,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
Page  10
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for expenditures in respect of Categories (1), (3) (a) and (3) (b),
unless ESCOM has: (i) appointed a manager for Part A of the Project
and (ii) established an environmental affairs unit pursuant to
Section 3.04 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (c) payments made for
expenditures in respect of Category (3) (e), unless EPD has
appointed an additional senior economist to its Energy Division.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to meet the growing
demand for power in a least cost manner through the construction of
the Kapichira hydroelectric scheme and the rehabilitation of the
existing power stations; (b) to improve the quality and efficiency
of power supply through reinforcing the transmission and distribu-
tion systems to minimize outages and reduce losses; and (c) to
strengthen the capability of energy sector institutions to plan and
manage the energy sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Kapichira Hydroelectric Scheme
1.    Construction of: (i) an access road from Chikwawa Village to
Kapichira construction camp site; and (ii) camp facilities at the
construction site, including provision of water supply and
electricity.
2.    Construction of (i) an 800 m long earth fill and composite
earth-rock fill dam at Kapichira Falls provided with gated spillway;
(ii) about 450 m long power canal and power intake; (iii) 2 steel
penstocks; (iv) a power house to accommodate up to 5 generating
units; (v) a tailrace; and (vi) a switchyard.
3.    Two Francis turbines coupled to two generators each of about
25 MW capacity with associated electromechanical equipment and a
power house crane.
4.    Switchgear and control equipment for Kapichira Switchyard,
including two approximately 30 MVA 11/132 Kv step up transformers;
extension of substations at Tedzani and Blantyre West.
5.    Construction of about 58 km of 132 kV single circuit transmis-
sion line from Kapichira Switchyard to Tedzani III. Diversion of
existing 132 kV Nkula to Nchalo line at Kapichira into Kapichira
Switchyard.
6.    Extension of the existing SCADA system to include Kapichira,
and upgrading as necessary the existing generation control
microcomputer center at Nkula B and interface of the telemetry
software with the existing systems.
7.    Establishment of single channel power line carrier and
telephone links to Kapichira to connect it to the existing system.
8.    (a)   Engineering services for the design and supervision of
the hydroelectric scheme and administrative support to manage and
administer the scheme; and (b) establishment of a panel of experts
to review the design of the hydroelectric scheme and to advise on
technical issues that may arise during construction.
Part B:     Generation Rehabilitation
Page  11
      Improving the availability of the existing power plants
through:
1.    reconditioning or replacement of: (a) runners, guide vanes and
the cooling system, and acquisition of essential spares for Tedzani
I and II; and (b) provision of runner and essential spares for the
Nkula B machines;
2.    rehabilitation of the intake structure of the Nkula A, Nkula
B and Tedzani power stations; and
3.    acquisition of spares for the gas turbine and diesel power
plants.
Part C:     Transmission Reinforcement
      Improving the reliability of the transmission system to the
Northern Region through:
1.    acquisition of tubular steel poles and steel cross-arms to
replace the existing wood poles and wooden cross-arms on the 66 kV
line from Salima to Chintheche and the 132 kV line from Salima to
Lilongwe;
2.    installation of the steel poles and cross-arms from Salima to
Chintheche and from Salima to Lilongwe; and
3.    construction of a control building and installation of a
control system at Lilongwe, to improve data collection and storage,
reduce outage times and facilitate operations.
Part D:     Distribution Reinforcement
      Improving the reliability of, and contributing to the loss
reduction on, the distribution system through:
1.    installation of about 23 MVA 66/33kV substation transformers
at Zomba, Chirimba and Monkey Bay, and 10 MVA of 66/11 kV substation
transformer at Limbe and 5 MVA of 33/11 kV at Ntcheu;
2.    reconductoring of the 11 kV and low voltage systems in the
Southern, Central and Northern regions; and
3.    construction of 219 km of 33 kV, 230 Km of 11 kV, 120 km of
low voltage overhead lines and underground cables; installation of
105 MVA of 33/0.4 kV and 250 MVA of 11/0.4 kV distribution
transformers; provision of energy meters, autoreclosers and
sectionalizers; and acquisition of about 320 vehicles for use mainly
in the distribution systems.
Part E:     Institutional Strengthening of ESCOM
1.    Carrying out of studies to determine the least cost option for
power supply after Kapichira.
2.    Establishing a strategy for computerizing ESCOM's financial
and technical operations through acquisition of one central computer
system at ESCOM's headquarters and 18 microcomputers (one for each
district of ESCOM's area of operations) to be linked through
Lilongwe and Mzuzu to the headquarters.
3.    Training of staff, including provision of training aids, to
assist in building capacity to plan, manage and operate ESCOM's
facilities and systems.
Part F:     Energy Planning and Policy
            (i)   A household energy strategy study to establish a
                  firm data base for households' energy supply and
                  demand, examine the supply and marketing of
                  various forms of household energy, with emphasis
                  on biomass, including substitution possibilities,
Page  12
                  and recommend a household energy strategy; and
           (ii)   consultants' services to assist EPD on energy
                  matters including petroleum or coal exploration,
                  conservation and demand management measures.
Part G:     Petroleum Supply
1.    Review current petroleum product procurement, transport and
bulk storage arrangements and the legal framework of PCC.
2.    Preparation of recommendations to reduce the cost of petroleum
product supply.
Part H:     Energy Efficiency
1.    Demonstration of energy efficient barn designs for tobacco
curing and introducing smallholders to practice the use of softwood
charcoal as a substitute curing fuel.
2.    Acquisition of vehicles and computer equipment.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Contracts for spare parts for the hydroelectric plants, gas
turbines and diesel power plants, which are proprietary in character
may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Page  13
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 5% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower and ESCOM in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and ESCOM shall employ experts and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Account A
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
(a), (3) (a), (3) (b) and (3) (c) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A through E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
Page  14
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  15
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account B
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (b),
(3) (d), (3) (e), (3) (f) and (3) (g) set forth in the table inparagraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A through E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
Page  16
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  17
