                                                 Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                         ReportNo: 27604-HO




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                                            PROPOSEDCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 16.9MILLION
                                  (USD25.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                                    FOR A

                                 LANDADMINISTRATIONPROJECT

                              INSUPPORTOFTHE FIRSTPHASEOFA
                                LAND ADMINISTRATIONPROGRAM

                                               January 22,2004




Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion
CentralAmerica CountryManagementUnit




This document has arestricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance oftheir official
duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange RateEffective November 12,2003)


                        Currency Unit = Lempira
                                   18.0 = US$1
                                   US$ = SDR 1.4803 (December 31,2003)

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHMON   Honduran Association of Municipalities
CIDA     CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency
CIEF     Center for Forestry Informationand Statistics
COHDEFOR Honduras Forestry Development Corporation
DEC      Executive Directorate for the National Cadastre
EU      EuropeanUnion
FONAC   NationalConvergenceFund
GOH      Government of Honduras
GTZ      German Technical Assistance
ICT      Informationand Communication Technology
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Agency
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IGN      NationalGeographic Institute
MAH      Honduran Anthropology and History Institute
M T      Honduran Tourism Institute
INA      National Agrarian Institute
INFOP    Professional Training Institute
MIS      Management and InformationSystem
NDF      Nordic Development Fund
PAAR     RuralAreas Management Project
PACTA    LandAccess Pilot Project
PBPR     Forestry andRuralProductivity Project
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PMDN     Natural DisastersMitigation Project
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RENOT    Territorial NormsRegistry
RNP      National PersonalIdentificationRegistry
RPIM     Property and Mercantile Registry
SAG      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
SEFIN    Ministry of Finance
SERNA    Ministry of NaturalResourcesandthe Environment
SGJ      Ministry of Governance and Justice

                                                            FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY




   SINAP          National Property Administration System
   SINAPH         National System of Protected Areas of Honduras
   SINIMUN        National System of Municipal Information
   SINIT          National Territorial Information System
   SINREC         IntegratedRegistry Cadastre System
   SOE            Statement of Expenditures
   SURE           UnifiedRegistries System
   UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
   USAID          United States Agency for International Development


                                 Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                     Country Managermirector:         Jane Armitage
                                Sector Manager:       MarkCackler
                            Task Team Leader:         Jorge A. Muiioz




Thisdocument has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                                        HONDURAS
                                         LandAdministrationProgram

                                                        CONTENTS


A.                                                                                                                                         Page
     STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                                                                                     1
 1. Country and sector issues ....................................................................................................            1
 2. Rationale for IDA involvement ...........................................................................................                 1


B.3. Higherlevelobjectivesto which the project contributes..................................................... 2
     PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                                                                                                2
 1 . Lendinginstrument..............................................................................................................          2
 2 . Program objective and Phases .............................................................................................               2
 3.  Project development objective and key indicators ..............................................................                          3
 4.  Project components..............................................................................................................         4
 5.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ............................................................                          5
                                                                                                                                              6
C.6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...............................................................
     IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                                     6
 1 . Partnership arrangements (if applicable) .............................................................................                   6
 2 . Institutional and implementation arrangements...................................................................                         7
 3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results ..................................................................                          8
 4.  Sustainability ....................................................................................................................... 9
 5 . Critical risks and possible controversial aspects .................................................................                      9


D.6. Loadcreditconditions andcovenants ...............................................................................10 10
     APPRAISAL SUMMARY
  1. Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                  10
 2.  Technical............................................................................................................................   11
 3.  Fiduciary............................................................................................................................   12
 4 . Social ................................................................................................................................. 12
 5.  Environment ...................................................................................................................... 14
 6 . Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................. 14
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                   15

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                                                                         16
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby IDA and/or other Agencies                                                          21
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                                                                                                 22
Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                                                                                                     32

Annex 5: Project Costs                                         32
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                           43
Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements    48
Annex 8: Procurement                                           54
Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                       62
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues                              62
Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                   83
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                         85
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                       86
Annex 14: Country at a Glance                                  87

                                         HONDURAS

                           LANDADMINISTRATION PROGRAM

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                           L C ER
Date: January 20,2004                           Team Leader: Jorge A. Mufioz
Country Director: Jane Armitage                 Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
Sector ManagerAIirector: John Redwood           forestry sector (7O%);General public
                                                administration sector (30%)
                                                Themes: Other rural development
                                                (P);Municipal governance and institution
                                                building(S);Legal institutions for a market
                                                economy (S)
Project ID: PO55991                             Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                Assessment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program           Safeguard screening category: Limited impact
Credit
~~




[ ]Loan     [XI Credit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 25.00




Borrower:
Government of Honduras

Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Governance and Justice, through
Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos
Edif.Educredito, 2a planta, Colonia FlorenciaNorte
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Tel: 504-239-68 13    Fax: 504-239-78 17
hmerriam@provectopaar.org

Project implementation period for PHASEI:Start May 1,2004 End:April 30,2008
Expected effectiveness date: May 1, 2004
Expected closing date: April 30, 2008
PHASE11 (2008) -US$50 million (IDA: US$35 million)
PHASE 111(2012) - US$50 million (IDA: US$35 million)

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
  ____~



Ref. PAD A.3                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ] N o
   .I
Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project's development objective is: An integrated and decentralized land administration
system (composed of public and private entities) provides users inthe project area with accurate
information on urbanand rural land parcels and effective land administration services (purchase,
mortgages, cadastral and registry certifications, etc.) ina timely and cost-effective manner.
Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project will have three components: (i) framework andinstitutional strengthening; (ii)
                                              Policy
Area-based systematic land regularization, titling, and registration; and (iii) management
                                                                              Project
 and monitoring and evaluation.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 Yes, the project triggers Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP
4.04), Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11- OPN 11.03), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12),
 and Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20).

 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
~~




Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
The project does not require any exception from Bankpolicies.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
 Only standard conditions. The project meets the regional criteria for readiness for
 implementation.
 Covenants applicable to project implementation: None

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country andsector issues

Honduras i s the thirdpoorest country inLatin America and the Caribbean after Haiti and
Nicaragua; nearly two-thirds of the population i s poor and half i s extremely poor. Inequality
i s widespread especially between urban and rural areas, and the country has a national Gini
coefficient o f 0.6. The country recently revised its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
around six pillars: (i)accelerating growth, (ii)reducing rural poverty, (iii) reducing urban
poverty, (iv) enhancing investment inhuman capital, (v) strengthening social protection, and
(vi) ensuring sustainability. The PRSP i s basis for IDA'Scurrent Country Assistance
Strategy (May 29,2003, Report No. 25873 HO) for the period 2003-06, which aims to
maintain a stable macroeconomic framework, strengthen the financial system, improve land
access, improve access to credit and investment opportunities for the poor, promote gender
equality, improve the socio-economic conditions of Afro-Honduran and indigenous groups,
and improve governance.

The insecurity of land tenure, rural and urban, i s one of the most critical constraints to
increased investment. It i s also a source of social instability, and a disincentive to sustainable
land use. Insecurity from overlapping titles, violent disputes, and illegal occupation of lands
arises largely as a result of poorly enforced land rightsthrough weak and uncoordinated land
administration institutions. Even titled lands suffer from irregularities, such as overlapping
claims. Only about 30 percent o f the estimated 2.6 million land parcels inthe country (1.8
million urban, 0.8 million rural) are registered inthe property registry. A recent study
estimated the total value of these extra-legal assets amounts to US$ 12billion. Failure to use
even a fraction of these assets to mobilize credit i s a key source of stagnation and inequality.

The historical land claims of indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities further complicate
the land rights issue, and are still to be adequately addressed. Close to half a million
Hondurans (about 8 percent of the population) are defined as Indigenous or Afro-Honduran.

To address a wide range of land policy issues, Government i s implementing major legislative
reforms on territorial planning (approved by Congress in October), property rights (being
debated in Congress), forestry (submitted to Congress) and sizable public investment
programs (see annexes 1and 2). The proposedprogram i s an important instrument to
implement the Government's strategy.

2. Rationalefor IDA involvement

The Association i s uniquely positionedto support land administration reform efforts in
Honduras since it i s the lead donor on land tenure issues. At present IDA operates through
policy dialogue, the Rural Areas Administration Project (PAAR, P007398), and the Access
to Land Pilot Project.

The Honduran Government has achieved remarkable donor coordination on this issue, and
mainly through the PAAR Project Coordination Unit has also secured geographical

concentration of key investment activities. Inrecent discussions with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) it was agreed that the World Bank would take a leading role in
policy and operational support to land administrationreform issues and that the IDB would
gradually take the lead in forestry sub-sector issues. Other donors supporting land issues
include GTZ, USAID, CIDA, and the European Union.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The proposedprogram will be one of the Government's instruments to accelerate growth and
increase sustainability while reducing rural and urban poverty. It i s hopedthat a reliable and
widely accessible land administration system inHonduras, with the power to guarantee a
national property rights system will ultimately increase economic growth as tenure security
will stimulate private investment (Pillar Iof the PRSP) - especially inthe more dynamic
corridor along the departments of Choluteca, Comayagua, CortCs, and Francisco Morazin.
Secure land rights will also feed into the broad goal of sustainable development (Pillar VI of
the PRSP), and improved governance inthe country. A modern land administration system
i s only an integral part of a wider spectrum of issues. Other important reforms are needed to
reduce poverty. Inparticular structural adjustment of the financial system and the judicial
mustbe carried out, and attentionpaid to decentralization and accountability issues.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

As noted ina letter detailing its Development Program, the Government of Honduras has
requested that IDA support for land administration reform efforts be channeled through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). It i s the Government's intention to embark on a long-term
and far-reaching legal, institutional, and technological reform to formalize property rights for
the vast majority of Hondurans, facilitate access to landby the poor, reduce transaction costs,
and encourage the emergence of dynamic land-based asset markets. An APL i s the
appropriate instrument for IDA to support this kindof reform and investment program.

2. Program objective and Phases

The Honduras LandAdministration Program seeks to establish a national property rights
system (National System for Property Administration, SINAP) that will be fully integrated
and decentralized. Information on land use will be collected and registered with links to
geographical and legal information on public and private property (real estate, movable
assets, commercial rights and intellectual property rights).Data will be collected in an
efficient and timely manner, and will be easily available to the public, which will greatly
contribute to the Government's anti-corruption efforts. The program will be implemented
over 12years inthree phases of four years each. Over the years, it i s expected that such a
system will increase land tenure security, add greater transparency to landissues, improve
governance inkey public sector entities, and stimulate the emergence o f secondary financial
markets such as insured bundled mortgages.




                                                 2

Phase Io f the Programwill cost US$38.9 million (out of which, IDA will contribute with
US$25 million), and will be implemented over four years starting in2004. It will integrate
the geographic data from the cadastre with the alpha-numeric data from the registry under the
so-called parcel-based Cfolioreal) registration method, as opposed to the personal registry.
About a third of the country's real estate property in seven departments will be incorporated
under SINAP, operated by public and private entities. SINAP will include a set of land use
norms and integrate a geographic information system into its unified registry. The agreed
triggers for progressing to Phase I1are: (i)      Creation of a new institutional framework and
completion of an agreed transition plan from the current structure (including a declining plan
of absorption of project-funded consultants by the Government's budget); (ii)              Achievement
of 80% or better results o f end-of-Phase Ioutcome (PDO) indicators; (iii)              Adoption of
legalhegulatory framework on land rights for indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples; and
(iv) Completion of baseline data collection for Phase 11.

Phase I1will cost US$ 50 million (estimated' Bank contribution of US$ 35 million) and will
begin in2008. It will complete the parcel-based land regularization and registration carried
out inthe regional departments inPhase I,         and then expand geographical coverage to an
additional seven departments. Other property registries,such as the movable assets,
commercial rights, and the intellectual property rights registry will be integratedinto SINAP
at this stage. Agreed triggers for moving to Phase I11are: (i)         Consolidation o f SINAP in all
Cabinet entities (agro-productive sectors); (ii)      SINAP operational inat least 60
municipalities; (iii) accessible in at least four private professional/trade associations;
                         SINAP
and (iv) Incorporation into SINAP of 70% of the land parcels inthe departments covered in
Phase I1(approx. 1.2 million land parcels).

Phase I11will cost US$ 50 million (estimated Bank contribution of US$ 35 million) and will
begin in2012. It will complete the regularization and registration of all the country's land
parcels both urban and rural, consolidate under SINAP the integration of all registries and
private sector entities, particularly the banking sector, and establish the foundations needed
for the emergence of secondary mortgage markets. Endof Programindicators are: (i)                   all
relevant public entities operate SINAP; (ii)       50% of municipalities operate SINAP; and (iii)
land parcels in all departments incorporatedinto SINAP under the parcel-based system
(>70% of PhaseI11parcels, >80% of Phase I1parcels, >90% of PhaseIparcels).

3. Project development objective and key indicators

The project's development objective is: An integrated and decentralized land administration
system (composed of public and private entities) to provide users inthe project area with
accurate information on urban and rural land parcels andeffective land administration
services (purchase, mortgages, cadastral and registry certifications, etc.) in a timely and cost-
effective manner. The system will help to increase landtenure security, facilitate land market
transactions, develop national and municipal territorial plans, and develop management plans


 Bank contribution figures for Phases I1and I11are indicative only; actual amounts will depend on availability
of resources at the time, includingthose of Government and other donors.




                                                      3

for protected areas, forests, and indigenous peoples lands. (The project's traditional logframe
and the new results framework, with detailed indicators, are presented inAnnex 3. A
detailed project description, including key activities by component, i s presented inAnnex 4).

The project's development indicators are: (i) maintains a 96% rate of titled lands
                                                  System
accurately registered in SINAP; (ii)     Satisfactory rating (thirdlevel on a four-level scale) b y at
least 70% o f SINAP users including a certain percentage of women; (iii)        Average time to
register a land transaction i s 7 days or less; (iv) Average administrative cost of registering a
land transaction i s 2.07 US$ equiv. or less; (v) Operating costs of Registry 100% coveredby
registration fees; and (vi) Conflicts in 60% of national lands (forests and protected areas) in
the project area are resolved.

4. Projectcomponents

The project will have three components: (i) framework and institutional strengthening;
                                                Policy
(ii)Area-based systematic land regularization, titling, and registration; and (iii)   Project
management and monitoring and evaluation. The costs and IDA contribution of each
component and sub-component are summarized inTable 1.

                 Table 1. Project Costsby ComponentandIDA Contribution

                                                                  cost                 I D A
                         Component                         (inc. contingencies) % of Financing      %
                                                                 (US$M)         Total (US$M) Financing
 1.PolicyFramework andInstitutional Strengthening
   1.1 PolicyandRegulatoryFramework                                         1.4   3.6       1.1       79.5
   1.2 Developmentof Technological Platforms                                5.3  13.5       3.1       58.a
   1.3 InstitutionalStrengthening                                           4.3  11.0       3.7       85.9
 Subtotal                                                                  10.9  28.1       7.8       71.6
 2. Area-based Systematic Land Regularization, Titling
  and Registration
   2.1 PreparatoryActivities for FieldWork                                  3.0   7.7       1.6       54.c
   2.2 FieldSurveying of MunicipalBoundaries,Urbanand
    RuralAreas, Forests,ProtectedAreas andEthnic Lands                      1.2   3.1       0.6       48.4
   2.3 Parcel-levelSurveyingand Validation                                 14.0  36.0       8.7       61.8
   2.4 Regularization,Titling, andRegistration                              4.41 11.41      2.61      59.4
 Subtotal                                                                 22.71 58.21      13.51      59.6
 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                           5.31 13.71      3.71      69.2


Component 1will cost US$ 10.9 million andwill be national inscope. Itforms part of
Government's strategy to modernize a fragmented institutional framework and streamline the
massive land registration process while increasing accessibility of land services at the local
level. This component will support increased transparency andimproved governance of the
country's main land administration institutions. The Component's main output will be the
establishment of a National Property Administration System (SINAP) through legal,
regulatory, and institutional means. SINAP will include a National Territorial Information
System (SINIT), a Registry of Norms (RENOT), and the Unified Registries System (SURE)




                                                   4

and will be operated by public and private entities. The project will finance preparationof
policies and norms, technological development, and institutional strengthening.

Component 2 will cost US$ 22.7 million. Activities under this component will directly
benefit the populations residing inthe project area by massive regularization and registration
of an essential asset: land. The project aims to cover different types of rural andurban land
and a diverse cross-section of Honduran society including the rich and the poor; men and
women; ladino, indigenous, and Afro-Honduran. The Component's main output will be the
incorporation of land parcels inthe project area into SINAP. The project will finance pre-
field work such as aerial photography, field surveying of macro boundaries such as inter-
municipal boundaries, parcel-level surveying and validation, conflict resolution,
regularization, titling, and mass registrationinto SINAP. These activities will be
implemented inthe seven regional departments according to the schedule shown inTable 2.

                         Table 2. Field Project Activities by Department

                                                          Parcel-Level Surveying and          Regularization, Titling,
 DEPARTAMENT            Delimitation of Macro Areas                Validation                       Registration




* Following   the ILO 169 Convention, of which Honduras i s a signatory, for the purposes of this project, the
term ethnic lands means "those lands that have ancestrally and historically been settled by Amerindian groups
andlor AfIo-Honduran communities for their use and that constitute their habitat on which they undertake their
traditional productive and cultural practices."

Component 3 will cost US$ 5.3 million and covers the administration costs of the Project
Coordination Unitthat will carry out monitoring and evaluation activities. The unit will be a
critical instrument to ensure efficient administration of the project and effective coordination
with other land-relatedprojects inthe country.

5. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

The pilot experience of the land administration component under PAAR inthe Comayagua
Department has provided many valuable lessons. It allowed Government to field test land
regularization methodologies, apply various technical surveying standards, and estimate unit




                                                      5

costs (per property/ per hectare) of overall cadastral surveying, regularization, and
registration activities. Project cost estimates and targets are based on these results. In
addition, PAAR gained valuable experience indemarcating the Tolupanes indigenous area.
This experience was commended as abest case example inparticipatory demarcation ina
recent IDA review, "LCSES QAT Thematic Review, O D 4.20 inCentral American Landand
Biodiversity ConservationProjects." Project design has also benefitedfrom the experience
of two successful IDA-funded projects with similar objectives and technical approaches, the
"Land Administration Project" inEl Salvador (P007174) andthe "Urban Property Rights
Project" inPeni (P039086). Accordingly, IDA staff who have worked inthe preparation and
implementation of both projects have been part of the project team.

6. Alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection

The program combines vertical integration with horizontal expansion. This approach i s
considered appropriate because it addressesbroad national policy issues while gradually
developing the technical know-how on the ground, building on the lessons learnedunder
PAAR. The program i s balanced inthe sensethat although it focuses field activities on the
most economically dynamic region of the country (the CortCs, Comayagua, F. Moraziin
corridor), it also serves some of the most disadvantaged populations inthe country, namely
the majority of Garifuna communities on the Atlantic coast and selected Miskito
communities inGracias a Dios. InPhases I1and 111, the program will finance the completion
of land regularization activities in all departments of the country.

A demand-based, case-by-case approach to landconflict resolution was considered but
rejected. Separating urban and rural areas was also considered and rejected. An area-based
systematic surveying approach i s considered more appropriate since it i s less costly, it builds
on existing expertise, and it does not leave pockets of unresolvedareas. Continuation of a
component-based approach under a broader project (like PAAR) was also considered and
rejected. Instead, PAAR will be followed by two projects: this one and the Forestry and
Rural Productivity Project focusing on forestry issues and on-farm productive investments.

Finally, inclusion of selected areas to address land issues of indigenous and Afro-Honduran
populations was considered more appropriate than preparing a stand-alone project to deal
with landissues for these populations. This will also allow IDA to immediately address some
long-standing unresolvedissues.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

The project will be co-financedby IDA who will contribute US$25 million, the Nordic           *
Development Fund(NDF) who will contribute U S $ 8 million and the Government o f
Honduras who will contribute US$ 6.0 million. (See Annex 5 for financial plan). The exact
amount of co-financing by NDFwill be known only after its MarchBoardmeeting. Any
shortfall will be absorbedby the Government of Honduras counterpart funds. As i s the case
with other IDA-financed projects, funds from NDFwill be loanedto Government under




                                                 6

standard IDA terms and will be supervised by IDA following standard practice. NDF
requires that a certain proportion of their credit proceeds be procured following competitive
biddingprocedures, details of which will be clarified after NDF'sboardmeeting. (Annexes
2 and 6 further discuss cooperation arrangements with other donors).

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Project implementationmimic the successful experience of the ongoing PAARproject, with
one important difference: the Ministry of Governance and Justice (SGJ) will be the overall
implementing agency for this project instead of the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG) which
implements PAAR, because SGJ i s responsible for (i)     the cadastre, (ii)
                                                                          territorial planning,
(iii) societyparticipationandindigenouspeoplesissues,and(iv)decentralizationand
    civil
municipal issues. The existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will continue to implement
other IDA-financedprojects, including the ongoing Natural Disasters Mitigation Project
(P064913) and the upcoming Forestry and Rural Productivity Project (P064914). The PCU
will coordinate the activities of several executing entities, however, there will be no transfer
of funds to these agencies. All payments will be executed directly by the PCU in adherence
with its contract management procedures and payment orders.

The executing entities are: the Executive Directorate of the National Cadastre (DEC), the
Property and Mercantile Registry (RPIM), National Geographic Institute (IGN), the National
Agrarian Institute (INA), the National Personal Identification Registry (RNP), the Honduran
Corporation for Forestry Development (Am-COHDEFOR), the Ministry of National
Resources and Environment (SERNA), the Institute for Professional Training (INFOP), the
Honduran Anthropology and History Institute (IHAH), the Honduran Institute o f Tourism
(IHT), and the HonduranAssociation of Municipalities (AHMON). These entities will be
required each to enter into a "Participation Agreement" with SGJ. Similarly SGJ will enter
into a "Municipality Agreement" with each respective municipality where project activities
will take place (see Annex 6).

The project will have a high-level Council of Governors, chaired b y the SGJ, with
representatives from the executing agencies and civil society representatives. It will meet
periodically and be responsible for providing policy direction; identifying legal, institutional,
and regulatory reforms; and supervising compliance of the project's key agreements such as
Participation Agreements, Municipality Agreement and the Administrator Agreement. There
will also be a Technical Steering Committee with representatives of executing agencies and
selected independent advisors to ensure proper coordination of project activities and provide
specialized advice to the Council of Governors. The project will rely on alternative conflict
resolution mechanisms to expedite land regularization. At the local level, it will establish
Regularization Tables, providing free technical and legal advice to resolve disputes, and will
rely on existing Inter-ethnic Tables inindigenous areas. At higher levels, it will take
advantage of the National Conflict Resolution Table, the National Indigenous Table, and the
recently created (by the Territorial Planning Law) Department Council.




                                                 7

For managing IDA funds, a Special Account inU S dollars at the Central Bank of Honduras
with an authorized allocation of US$2.5 million will be openedby the Ministryof Finance
(SEFIN). Disbursements will be transaction-based and will be made on the basis o f
Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the PCU and reviewed and approved by
SEFIN. The operational Project Account at the Central Bank (with Government counterpart
funding) will be under the management andresponsibility of the PCU. The DCA andproject
cost tables will be the main inputs for the project budgets and counterpart funding estimates.
The PCU will follow prescribed IDA disbursement category and governmental budgetary
heads. Accounting and budgetary records will be maintained in accordance with Government
procedures, which i s satisfactory to IDA. However, for IDA monitoring purposes the PCU
will report on detailed information at the project level of expenditures classified by
activity/subcomponent and disbursement category. Annual project financial statements will
be audited in accordance with InternationalAuditing Standards by an independent firm and
inaccordance with terms of reference, both acceptable to IDA (see Annex 7).

Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank/ IDA guidelines and the
provisions stipulated inthe Development Credit Agreement. The proposedthresholds for
prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the PCU and summarized
inTable B, Annex 8. The GOHintends to hire a Procurement Agent, i.e. UNDP,for
preparation o f all ICB biddingdocuments, bidopenings, bidevaluation, and selection of
international consultant services that are subject to IDA'Sprior review threshold. The PCU
will carry out all shopping procedures, all NCBs, all selection of individual consultants under
US$50,000 and selection of consulting firms under US$lOO,OOO. The technical staff of the
PCUwill be responsible for the quality of technical documents andproducts deliveredby
consultants, or physical inputsfinanced under the project, as a result of any contracting done
by the Procurement Agent on its behalf.

The Operational Manual (including a Land Regularization Manual) for the project will
specify the duties and responsibilities of all the institutions involved inthe implementation
of the project. It will also include the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, and model contracts for goods procured
on the basis of three quotations or shopping.

3. Monitoring andevaluation of outcomes/results

Buildingon the existing financial management system andland-based information systems
under the PAARproject, the PCU will have a monitoring and evaluation unit to collect
(largely through subcontracting), consolidate and report day-to-day project performance data
as well as periodic information on intermediate project results and higher level outcomes or
impacts. The primary sources of data will be (i)    field reports from the PCU's technical team,
Regularization Tables, contractors, etc.; (ii) field reports and quarterly / annual financial
statements and performance reports of executing entities; and (iii)   specially commissioned
assessments and surveys (e.g., SINAP users satisfaction survey, land market assessments,
impact evaluation). All land-related information will feed into S N A P subsystems (SINIT
and SURE) which, combined with other non-project data such as municipal investments and




                                                 8

 poverty indicators, will generate accurate geographic and alpha-numeric data, maps, and
 reports on a broader range of issues.

 Periodic reporting by the PCU's monitoring unit will be readily accessible, mostly online, to
 the National Coordinator, the staff of executing agencies, and civil society representatives. It
 will be an important instrument for day-to-day management of project activities and
 coordination with other projects. Inaddition, it will used to enrich the meetings of the
 project's Council of Governors and Technical Steering Committee and thus have a direct
 impact on policy and regulatory matters. The existing PCUfinancial management capacity i s
 adequate, however a monitoring and evaluation specialist will be hired to strengthen the
 capacity, particularly with regards to overall impact evaluation. An integrated management
 information system (MIS),combining the financial inputs, physical outputs, and results
 indicators (detailed inAnnex 3), will be fully operational by Credit effectiveness.

 4. Sustainability

 The Government of Honduras i s fully committed to the program, and has highlighted i s as a
 highpriority inthe PRSPand the 2002-2007 Government Plan. The Government explicitly
 requested IDA to include the project inthe Country Assistance Strategy as a highpriority
 item (Le., base case). Moreover, inMay 2002, the executive andjudicial branches of the
 Government signed a landmark agreement to integrate the cadastre which i s administeredby
 the executive and the real estate registry which falls under the judicial. This agreement
 created the IntegratedSystem of Registration and Cadastre (SINREC). SINREC i s composed
 of the Presidency and the Supreme Court, and i s chairedby the head of National
 Convergence Fund(FONAC) with PAAR's PCU as the technical secretariat. InFebruary
 2003, SINREC agreed to the creation of an integratedcadastre and registry, that will be
 adjunct to a Ministry but hold administrative autonomy under the executive. The Supreme
 Court has issued a regulatory decree to the 1974 law allowing implementation o f parcel
 based (FolioReal) registration. Based on the successful experience inthe Bay Islands (with
 IDBfunding)and Comayagua (under PAAR),the Court will issue an additional decree (Auto
 Acordudo) authorizing implementationof parcel basedregistration inthe project area.

 The critical factor to the sustainability o f the project - and a key trigger for Phase I1- i s the
 consolidation of a new institutional framework. The project will provide resources to assist
 Government inensuring that such consolidation takes place as soon as possible. A
 satisfactory transition plan was prepared by the PCU with details of how PCU consultant
 would be absorbed by civil service and private sector by PY04.

 5. Critical risksand possiblecontroversialaspects
I               Risks                 I         RiskMitigationMeasures                 RiskRating
                                                                                       with Mitigation
 To project development objective
~




 * Comprehensive    institutional and  Project supports efforts to ensure approval of
 regulatory reform to consolidate      reform, issue regulatory measures, disseminate,
 real estate property regimenot        train, etc. Regular use of Council of Governors      Modest




                                                        9

approved
* Judicial                            to appeal to the highest decision-making levels
           reform does not progress,  Close coordination with team preparing Judicial
keeping land disputes in the courts   Reformproject (with IDA support) and through            Modest
slow, inefficient and inaccessible
* Government                          continuous dialogue with Supreme Court
                does not enforce      Intensive dissemination of information and
land tenure laws and policies         technicalllegal advice to key enforcing entities;      Substantial
                                      aggressive public awareness campaigns; reliance

* Other                               on grassroots organizations for conflict resolution
         land initiatives do not use  Continuous coordination through PCU, Council       II    Low
compatible methodologies              of Governors, and Technical Steering Committee
To component results
* Low   technical competence by       Prioritize content and process of technical
executive entities in operating       certification; consolidate know-how in a few            Modest
SINAP makes system slow, dated,       entities before expanding into new one or new
and of uncertain-quality
* INA and/or                          areas; monitor institutional performance closely
               municipalities fail to Use high level Council of Governors to ensure
performtheir land titling functions   compliance with Participation Agreements;              Substantial

* Inadequate                          provide incentives to minimize resistance
              counterpart funding     Use Council of Governors to maintain high
stifles project execution             priority status of the program and mobilized           Substantial
                                      neededresources
Overall risk rating                                                                           Modest

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

There are no significant, non-standard conditions for Board presentation. Credit effectiveness
conditions are:
0    Supreme Court issuesAuto Acordudo authorizingfolio real inthe project area
0    Operational Manual adopted all executing agencies
0    Procurement staff at PCU or at the Procurement Agent, satisfactory to IDA, appointed

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancial analyses

Taken together, the economic and financial benefits indicate that the project i s a sound
investment for Honduras. Analysis of the economic soundness of the project demonstrate
substantial benefits when compared to alternative land regularization approaches. The Net
Present Value of net benefits i s US$ 105.9 million, and the Internal Rate o f Return i s 44%
(see Annex 9). Economic benefits should accrue from the long-term investments made in
response to new opportunities to use property as collateral for loans, resolution of land
disputes and guaranteed property rights.These benefits are estimated based on the added
property value observed from previously regularized properties, with approximately 80% o f
the expected benefits accruing from urban properties and 20 % from rural properties.
Financialbenefits are also expected as a result of the project, primarily inreducing the cost
of regularization. Though these intangible benefits are not included inthe overall net benefit
calculation since they can only be measured against an unlikely counterfactual scenario, they
are substantial. With cost savings o f tenure regularizationof approximately US$409 per
property inthe urban context and US$24.70 per hectare inthe rural context, total cost




                                                       10

savings are in the order o f US$ 186 million over the project timescale. The project also i s
expected to have a positive fiscal impact, increasingtotal public revenue from property
transactions by approximately US$ 33.8 million innet present value terms.

2. Technical

The technical design of the project i s sound, and incorporates three factors which have
proven to be essential for success: (i)  a streamlined, standardized and participatory land
regularization process that allows massive regularization in seven departments within four
years; (ii)modern information and communication technology infrastructure, including an
innovative computerized land information system that will provide more accessible and
efficient land administration services; and (iii) technical strengthening and training of both
public and private institutions to ensure quality and sustainability. To reach the goals of
745,000 parcels surveyed and regularized, 12protectedareas demarcated, and 16ethnic
communities demarcated, the project will implement a three-step strategy:


0   Delimitation of the seven departments and transfer of the results to co-executing entities
    for land use management and planning
0   Systematic parcel-based field investigation, survey and validation, including comparison
    of every parcel surveyed inthe field with old property registry and cadastre
0   Legalization and titling of parcels, including rectification of already titled documents and
    transfer from old personal registry to the new parcel-based system, conflict resolution
    through non-judicial mechanisms such as mediation, public viewing, and extensive
    beneficiary participation activities.

This strategy has two crucial advantages for the Honduras context that buildon international
best practices. Firstly, it relies on objective decision makingon titling and regularization
based on systematic confrontation of field data and existing data. Secondly, it effectively
separates the delimitation and investigation steps from legalization and titling to prevent
bottlenecks caused b y unresolvedtitling or contested issues. The PCUhas already set up
detailed operational manuals and effective quality control mechanisms. Moreover, the land
regularization methodology incorporates not only technological innovations, but also key
social and environmental dimensions such as gender equality, Afro-Honduran and
indigenous peoples land rights, classification of protected and forests and a census of people
settled inthese areas.

Given the complexity of activities contemplated inthe project, including SURE and the
necessary telecommunication network, purchasing of hardware and software, the project i s
finalizing a strategic and time-bound information and communication technology (ICT)
master plan. Under PAAR, the team has already started the design of SURE. The project
team will use cutting-edge web technology to provide local land administration services
through the web. This design i s based on international standards and positive experience
from El Salvador. Resources have specifically been set aside to strengthen and train public
and private sector staff inICT technology. These plans not only include technical courses but
will also broader issues such as ethics, gender equity, social inclusion, negotiation and




                                                 11

communication skills. Partnerships will be established with professional training entities and
the Central American Training Network on LandAdministration (RECCAT). Costs o f
project technical activities are consistent with similar projects inthe region. The Association
will carry out regular technical reviews and monitor the efficiency of SURE, the
effectiveness of the land regularization process, and the quality of institutional strengthening.

3. Fiduciary

The PCUhas appointed a qualified accountant and budget officer (who are currently working
inIDAfinanced projects implementedby the same PCU), to oversee all aspects of financial
management for the project. Existing PCU staff contracts are managed by UNDP, not the
Government of Honduras. The PCUmaintains and manages an integrated management
information system that was developed under the PAARproject and has an adequate
financial management system. The project accounting system meets IDA's fiduciary
requirements and has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions, and
produce financial statements useful to project management. The accounting system i s
designed to capture all financial information and allocate among both categories of IDA's
legal/disbursement categories and GOH Budget categories / expenditure object. Government
has agreed to appoint the auditors for boththe annual and special audits, by Credit
effectiveness, under a multi-year contract. Audits will follow the provisions o f Section 4.01
(b) (ii)f the Credit Agreement (January 1st through December 31st of each year), with the
        o
audit report due no later than 4 months after the end of the fiscal year. The overall project
riskfor financial management and disbursements is consideredlow.

An assessmentof the capacity of PCUto implement the procurement actions under the post
review threshold for the project has been carried out and was approved by the Regional
Procurement Advisor on December 5,2003. The existing structure, considering the
additional procurement officer to be hired for the project, i s considered satisfactory. UNDP's
performance has not been entirely satisfactory duringthe implementation o f the current
PAARproject. To mitigate this risk, the Procurement Agent agreement will include a
mechanism to assure quality control of all procurement activities carried out by the agent. If
UNDPis selected, its performance will be reevaluatedby IDA after the first six months of
project implementation and if it i s found not satisfactory new arrangements for procurement
administration would be sought. The Association would carry out a full assessment o f a new
procurement agent before such hiringi s concluded. GOH has developed a procurement plan
for project implementation which provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the
procurement methods (Table A, Annex 8). This plan was approvedby the Regional
Procurement Advisor on January 7,2004 and i s inthe project files. At the beginning o f each
calendar year, GOH will update the procurement plan with a detailed procurement schedule
for the coming year. The overall project risk for procurement i s considered average.

4. Social

A participatory social assessmentfor the project was carriedout to: (i) and
                                                                          identify
characterize key stakeholders and involve them in the design and implementation of the




                                                12

project; (ii) possible risks and social impacts; (iii) key socio-economic
             identify                                          analyze
factors; and (iv) identify the structure of informal relations with regard to land administration
between key stakeholders and/or beneficiaries of the project. The assessment carried out
detailed interviews inproject areas, including communities inGarifuna and Miskito areas.

The assessment identified as beneficiaries/stakeholdersof the project: (i)    civil society in
urban and rural areas; (ii) administration institutions; (iii) executive branch, both at
                            land                                   the
the central and decentralized level; and (iv) specific social groups, namely women (who
represent 49.5% of rural population and 52.9 % of urban population), farmer associations,
grassroots associations (patronatos),indigenous communities and their associations (who are
mostly settled inthe least developed parts of the country).

The 1982 Constitution provides equal rightsto all citizens, regardless o f gender, race,
religion, or other factors. Specifically, the existing land-related legislation i s gender-neutral,
and gives women equal rightsto access to land, regardless o f the way these rights are
acquired (Le., inheritance, purchase, lease, donation, etc.). Under the 1974 Agrarian Reform
Law beneficiaries were men over 16 and women were allocated land only if they were
household heads (art. 79). The Law was revised in 1991to eliminate discrimination and
allow joint titling upon request. The 1992 Agricultural Law and its regulations make explicit
reference to the equal rights for women. However, family law recognizes the husband as
householdhead or representative (art. 167, Civil Code), and grants himexclusive
administration rightsover family property (art. 82, Family Code). The social assessment
found that inrural areas, decisions regarding the use of family land assets are often made
jointly, and that this practice i s more frequent than inurban areas. The assessment found that
people do not generally think that it i s more difficult for women to obtain a land title, and
70% of respondents said it i s equally difficult for men and women. To compensate for these
imbalances, the project's disseminationcampaigns and operational procedures will provide
equal treatment to male- or female-headed households inthe regularizationprocess; for
example, as part of the conflict resolution activities by providing gender-sensitive training for
staff working on regularizationissues). Under the PAARproject, it was shown that it i s
possible to encourage greater incidence ofjoint-titling, so the under PATHthese experiences
will be expanded. The project will also monitor the number and percentage of female-owned
land parcels regularized or titled.

Althoughthe assessment found that Spanish is spokenby virtually all Hondurans,translators
will be needed for the Miskito areas.

Althoughthe benefits of the landregularization process interms of improved security are
recognizedby the overwhelming majority of stakeholders, there i s a general lack of
knowledge by both urban and rural population, irrespective of gender, o f landregistration
procedures and pitfalls. Through a well-designed and targeted communication and education
campaign and active participation of all groups of beneficiaries, the assessment found that the
project will have a significantly positive social impact. If the project provides an effective
legal and institutional framework and recognizes gender equity support for its policies will
increase, while heightenedlevels of trust will encourage the resolution o f indigenous land




                                                 13

conflicts. Integratedplanning will also help to conserve the environment, support
municipalities inurban development and territorial planning, and indirectly support private
sector investments.

Social impacts of the project will be closely monitored, with mitigation and preventative
measures adopted to address adverse impacts. As the project includes specific activities to
strengthen and consolidate indigenous peoples lands, a participatory Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) was done. This IPDPaddresses specific issues related to the
consultation, capacity building, and participation of indigenous groups through the project.

5. Environment

The environmental assessmentcarried out for the project noted a range o f potential
environmental impacts related primarilyto land use. On balance, the proposedproject i s
expected to be positive from an environmental standpoint, since it will promote the
conservation o f forests and other natural habitats, bothdirectly through the strengthening o f
existing protected areas and forest reserves in Comayagua, Cortes, and Colon, and indirectly,
through the establishment and demarcation of indigenous reserves in Colon, Atlintida and
Gracias a Dios. Landtitling, cadastre, and registry services will also induce a series o f
behavioral changes among rural landholders towards the environment, these positive and
negative environmental impacts will be monitored under the project. However any adverse
impacts on behavior will be more than compensated by the environmental benefits o f
strengthened protectedareas, forest reserves andindigenous reserves (see Annex 10).

6. Safeguard policies

Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                            Yes                N o
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                [XI               [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           [XI               [ I
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                [I               [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                 [XI               [I
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   [XI               [I
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                  [XI               [I
Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                      [I               [XI
Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                             11               [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                 11               [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                      [ I              [XI

The safeguard screening category o f the project i s S2. The project i s classified as Category B,
requiring some type of Environmental Analysis but not a full-scale Environmental
Assessment study. In accordance with OP 4.01, an Environmental Analysis (EA) was
conductedby ECOMAC, a Honduran consulting firm, and dated November 2003. This EA
identifies potential direct and indirect environmental impacts associated with the project,
develops mechanisms and measures to avoid, minimize and/or mitigate negative impacts, and
presents an Environmental Management Plan with specific activities, responsibilities and




                                                14

budgetsto ensure the implementationof these mitigating measures. Important findings and
useful recommendations from the EA are reflectedinproject design (see Annex 10).

The project triggers OD 4.20 as it will demarcate and title ancestral indigenous and Afro-
Honduran lands inthe name of those peoples. To comply with O D 4.20, an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has been prepared. Drawing upon informed participation,
the IPDP aims to ensure that indigenous peoples are not adversely effected by the project,
and that they receive culturally compatible social andeconomic benefits.

The Association and G O Hhave agreed that no involuntary physical displacement will take
place under this project, however as project activities include the demarcation of protected
areas, it i s possible that some people who live within the boundaries of a protected area or
consumptively use its natural resources, or where non-indigenous people live within the
boundaries of an indigenous reserve or enter to use its natural resources, could be affected.
Consequently, the project triggers OP 4.12 and a Process Framework for mitigating potential
livelihood impacts has been prepared by Government.

The project triggers OPN 11.03 as the project area i s known to support culturally valuable
lands and artifacts. Inorder to prevent the titling of lands supporting these culturally
important materials, project regularization activities will ensure that legally declared historic
and archeological sites within the project area are surveyed and their administration and
conservation will be placedunder the Honduran Anthropology and History Institute (IHAH)
andor the Honduran Tourism Institute (IHT). Additionally, so as to ensure that project
activities do not result inunintentional titling of areas of highcultural value, if public or
private lands are found or suspected to contain culturally valuable resources, information on
these lands will be forwarded to IHAH, and titling will only be allowed following an official
finding from MAH.

Inaccordance with IDA's Information Disclosure Policy (BP 17.50), copies of the
Environmental Analysis report in Spanish, the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, and
the Process Framework are available for public view at the PAAR PCU office inTegucigalpa
(Edif.Educredito, 2a planta, ColoniaFlorenciaNorte); a copy was also forwarded to IDA's
Infoshop on December 8,2003.

7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

The project does not require any exception from IDA policies. The project meets the
regional criteria for readiness for implementation. The fiduciary arrangements are inplace.
All key project staff andconsultants, with the exception of a senior procurement specialist to
work with the Administrator, have been mobilized. Adequate monitoring and evaluation
capacity i s already inplace. The Environmental Analysis, IPDP, and Resettlement Process
Framework were disclosed inthe country on December 2,2003 and are available at IDA'S
Infoshop.

This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                                 15

                           Annex 1:CountryandProgramBackground
                           HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

Insecurity o f land tenure inboth urban andrural areas, i s one of the most critical constraints
to increased investment. It i s also a source of social instability, and a disincentive to
sustainable land use. Insecurity arises largely as a result of poorly enforced land rights
through weak land administration institutions. Enforcement of rightsthrough the traditional
court system extremely slow and cumbersome, not to mention costly and therefore easily
corrupted. At present even the system only covers a very narrow portion of the population.

Inurbanareas, most peoplelive andwork on landthat is occupiedextra-legally. Evenif
people acquire land though legal means, their occupation i s threatened b y a variety of factors,
including overlappingjurisdictions of titling institutions, construction without housing
permits, development inphysically fragile areas, temporary settlements as a result of
Hurricane Mitch, and unresolveddisputes with third parties.

Inruralareassome84percentofthecountry's landareaislegallyclassifiedasforest land,
most of which i s categorized as national forest land and therefore not subject to private
ownership. This runs contrary to fact that only 54 percent of Honduran territory i s forested.
Roughly 35 percent of forests are national forests, 35 percent i s under private ownership, and
30 percent are municipal lands (ejidules). There are many illegal occupations on forest lands
by farmers without titles or loggers without forestry concessions for example. Rights of the
populations living on forest lands, whether usufruct or in some cases property rights, need to
be recognized and enforced. Extra-legal occupation inruralareas i s also caused by lack o f
title (either from Instituto Nucionul Agrurio (INA) for agricultural lands, or the respective
municipality for ejidul lands) or irregular occupation of land within protected areas.

Even titled lands suffer from many irregularities. Overlapping private claims and unknown
bylaws and norms that restrict property use can invalidate some property claims. Inaddition
unregistered transfers such as sales or inheritances or the implications of individual rights
within communal lands further complicate land issues. The general lack of management
plans inthe case of private forest lands or municipal lands adds to the confusion. Moreover,
most legal titles that can be enforced against third parties, are often not properly registered.
Only about 30 percent o f the estimated 2.6 million land parcels inthe country (1.8 million
urban, 0.8 million rural) have been incorporatedinto the property registry.

A recent study estimated that the total value of these extra-legal assets amount to US$12
billion, two-thirds of which i s inurban areas2.Failure to use even a fraction of these assets to
mobilize credit i s a significant source of inequality. Insecure andinadequately registered
land rights also limit the ability of municipalities to raise revenue from real estate and
improvement taxes, or develop effective land use or other territorial delivery systems and
plans.


  ("Activos Prediales y Empresariales Extralegales en Honduras," ConfederacibnHondureiia de Empresarios
Privados/ Instituto Libertad y Democracia(Perfi), November 2001).




                                                      16

Land administration institutions inHonduras are weak and uncoordinated. The Property
Registry (Registro de la Propiedad Inmueble, or RPIM), administered by the Judiciary, lacks
proper standards and procedures, and adequately trained registrars. RPIM management
practices are outdated and exert little administrative supervision the twenty-five regional
offices. Although a 1974 law allows the implementationof the parcel-based Volio real)
registration method, the Supreme Court has only recently allowed its implementation for the
Bay Islands and for the pilot areas inComayagua under IDA-funded Proyecto de
Administraci6n de Areas Rurales (PAAR, P007398).

The Executive Directorate of the National Cadastre (DireccidnEjecutivu de Cutustro, or
DEC), under the Ministry of Governance and Justice, supervises the development and
maintenance o f the cadastre. But the geographic data of the cadastre i s not easily coordinated
with the Registry information on legal rights, resulting inan out of date cadastral that has no
legal value. These weaknesses, coupled with the existence of other landregistry systems
(those maintainedby the courts, various municipalities, and the Corporucidn HondureAa de
Desurrollo Forestal, or COHDEFOR), have led to overlapping titles, violent disputes, and
illegal occupation of national and municipallands.

Another key issue i s the historical land claims of indigenous andAfro-Honduran
communities which have not been adequately addressed. Close to half a million Hondurans
(about 8 percent of the population) are defined as Indigenous or Afro-Honduran. A recently
completed diagnostic under IDA-funded "Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project" (P057859)
estimated the population of Miskito communities (spread over the six municipalities inthe
Departmentof Gracias a Dios) at about 59,000 people. A sample of 15 communities (out of
a total o f about 33) documented land claims of over 1.7 million ha. Similarly, the study
estimated the Garifuna population on the Atlantic coast (Departments of Cortks, Atlintida,
Col6n and small portion of Gracias a Dios) at 95,000 people and the sample o f 15
communities out of a total of 38, documented land claims of about 65,000 ha.

The current landpolicy framework in Honduras suffers from some important distortions and
gaps inthe legal and regulatory framework, related to several key issues (summarized inthe
table below). Early on during project implementation, a detailed policy matrix will be
developed describing the main issues, intendedcourse of action / reforms, and source of
fundingby donor (if appropriate).

Policy Area        MainIssue(s)             Reforms needed                           7
                                                                                     instrument

Land               Weak institutions         Consolidation of registry and
Administration                               cadastre (folio real), capacity
                                            building,decentralization

                   Limited titling,         Massive land regularization, titling     PATH
                   registration              and registrationinpriority areas       I




                                                17

               Limited recognition of Land regularization, conflict            PATH
               land rightsof          resolution, titling, and registration in
               indigenous and Afro-   selectedpriority areas
               Honduran peoples
                                      Consistent policy, legal and             Trigger for
                                      regulatory framework                     2ndphase
                                                                               of PATH

                                                                               PRSC(WB)
Credit Markets Limited access b y     Financial sector reform                  FSAC
               majority of people,                                             (WB)
               weak financial system
               highinterest rates

               Little use of land as  Greatly increase number of titled and PATH
               collateral             registered land parcels (urban and
                                      rural); make registry more reliable,
                                      transparent, and up to date
Forestry       Uncertain forestry     New policy, legal, and regulatory        Forestry
               policy, legal and      framework needed                         Project
               regulatory framework                                            (IDB)and
                                                                               PBPR
                                                                               (WB)

               Weak institutional     Strengthened technical, information,     PBPR
               framework to           and enforcement capacity of AFE-
               administer national    COHDEFOR
               forestry lands

               Limited information    Census of occupants, surveying o f       PBPR
               on occupants of forest current tenure status, use of            PATH
               lands, weak tenure     information for management plans         (selectec
               status                                                          areas)
Conflict       Lack of alternative    Implement ACRMs                          PATH(in
resolution of  conflict resolution                                             selected
land issues    mechanisms (ACRM)                                               areas)

               Slow and ineffective   Reform court proceedings, train          Judicial
               court procedures       legal establishment                      Reform
                                                                               Project
                                                                               (WB)
                                                                               PRSC




                                          18

Programobjective and Phases

The Government of Honduras has embarked on a long-term and far-reaching legal,
institutional, and technological reform process to formalize property rights for the vast
majority of Hondurans, facilitate access to landby the poor, reduce transaction costs, and
encourage the emergence of dynamic land-based asset markets. The main instrument to
implement these reforms i s the Honduras Land Administration Program (PATH) which seeks
to establish a national property rights system (National System for Property Administration,
SINAP) that will be fully integrated and decentralized. Information on land use will be
collected and registered with links to geographical and legal information on public and
private property (real estate, movable assets, commercial rights and intellectual property
rights).Data will be collectedinan efficient and timely manner, and will be easily available
to the public, which will greatly contribute to the Government's anti-corruption efforts. The
program will be implementedover 12years inthree phases of four years each. Over the
years, it i s expected that such a system will increase land tenure security, add greater
transparency to landissues, improve governance inkey public sector entities, and stimulate
the emergence of secondary financial markets such as insuredbundled mortgages.

Phase Iof the Program will cost US$38.9 million (out of which, IDA will contribute with
US$ 25 million), and will be implemented over four years staring in2004. It will integrate
the geographic data from the cadastre with the alpha-numeric data from the registry under the
so-called parcel-based @olioreal) registration method, as opposed to the personalregistry.
About a third of the country's real estate property in seven departments will be incorporated
under SINAP, operated by public and private entities. SINAP will include a set of land use
norms and integrate a geographic information system into its unified registry. The agreed
triggers for progressing to Phase I1are: (i)       Creation of a new institutional framework and
completion of an agreedtransition plan from the current structure; (ii)             Achievement of 80%
or better results of end-of-Phase Ioutcome (PDO) indicators; (iii)            Adoption of legal/
regulatory framework on land rightsfor indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples; and (iv)
Completion of baseline data collection for Phase 11.

Phase I1will cost US$ 50 million (estimated3Bank contribution of US$ 35 million) and will
begin in 2008. It will complete the parcel-based land regularization and registration carried
out inthe regional departments inPhaseI,           and then expand geographical coverage to an
additional seven departments. Other property registries such as the movable assets,
commercial rights, and the intellectual property rights registry will be integrated into SINAP
at this stage. Agreed triggers for moving to Phase I11are: (i)          Consolidation o f SINAP in all
Cabinet entities (agro-productive sectors); (ii) operational in at least 60
                                                       SINAP
municipalities; (iii) accessible in at least four private professional/trade associations;
                         SINAP
and (iv) Incorporation into SINAPof 70% of the landparcels inthe departments covered in
Phase I1(approx. 1.2 million land parcels).



  Bank contribution figures for Phases I1and I11are indicative only; actual amounts will dependon availability
of resources at the time, including those of Government and other donors.




                                                      19

Phase I11will cost US$50 million (estimatedBank contribution of US$ 35 million) and will
begin in 2012. It will complete the regularization and registration of all the country's land
parcels both urban and rural, consolidate under SINAP the integration of all registries and
private sector entities, particularly the banking sector, and establish the foundations needed
for the emergence of secondary mortgage markets.

Endof Programindicators are: (i) relevant public entities operateSINAP; (ii) of
                                     all                                              50%
municipalities operate SINAP; and (iii)    landparcels inall departmentsincorporated into
SINAPunder the parcel-basedsystem(>70% of Phase I11parcels, >80% of PhaseI1parcels,
>90% of Phase Iparcels).

Phasingof the Land AdministrationProgram

Phase (cost and timing)           Objectives                       Triggers for nextphase
Phase I(US$38.9 million)               Establish SINAP,            0   Creation of new
(out of which, IDA                     integrating geographic          institutional framework
contributionwill beUS$ 25              data from cadastre with         for SINAP
million)                               alpha-numeric data from         Achievement of 80% or
2004-2008                              registry (folio real)           better results of PDO
                                       Coveragein selected              indicators
                                       areas of seven              0    Adoption of legal /
                                       departments                      regulatory framework for
                                                                        indigenous peoples lands
                                                                   0    Completion of baseline
                                                                        data gathering for Phase
                                                                        I1
Phase I1(US$50 million;           0    Expand SINAP coverage       0    Consolidation of SINAP
estimated Bank contribution            to seven more                    inall Cabinet entities
 of US$35 million)                     departments                 0    SINAP operational in60
                                       Incorporate other                municipalities
 2008-2012                             registries (movable         0    SINAPaccessiblein4
                                       assets, commercial rights,       private associations
                                       intellectual property       0    Incorporationinto SINAP
                                       rights) into SINAP               of 70% of landparcels
                                                                        covered inPhaseI1
 Phase I11(US$50million;
~~




                                  0    Expand SINAP coverage
 estimated Bank contribution           to entire country.
 of US$35 million)                0    Consolidate integration
                                       of other registries.
 2012-2015                        0    Establish foundations for
                                       emergence of secondary
                                       mortgage markets.




                                                  20

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby IDA and/or other Agencies
                   HONDURAS: Land AdministrationProgram


   Project Name      Amount    IFinancier   I P D O         Sector Issue
                                           Ratings
RuralLand          US$34.0M     IDA        IP-S     Policy Reform, landtitling,
Management                                 DO-S     improvement of
(Credit 2940-HO)                                    agricultural practices
Access to Land     US$8.0M      IDA        IP-U     Landtenure security,
Pilot -PACTA                               DO -S    sustainable farm
(Credit 3435-HO)                                    enterprises.
Biodiversity       US$7.0M      GEF        IP-S     Conservation and
Conservation                               DO-S     sustainable use of
(TF-28367-HO)                                       biodiversity, improved
                                                    institutional capacity for
                                                    parksmanagement
Emergency           US$10.8M    IDA        IP-U     Disaster vulnerability
Disaster                                   DO-S     reduction
Management
(Credit 3361-HO)
Sustainable Coastal US$5.0M      IDA       IP-S     Development and
Tourism                                    DO-S     managementof tourism
(Credit 35581-HO)                                   along Atlantic coast, Bay
                                                    Islands; participatory
                                                    approaches; municipal
                                                    governance
Regional            US$8.8M      IDA       IP-S     Sustainable tourism based
Development of                             DO-S     on cultural andnatural
CopanValley                                         patrimony inCopan Valley
(Credit 37640-HO)              I




                                       21

                          Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                          HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

Hierarchy of               Key Performance          Monitoring and            Critical assumptions
objectives                 Indicators               evaluation
Sector-related CAS         Sector indicators:        SectorICountry           (from goal to Bank
goal:                                                reports:                 mission)

Pillar I1of PRSP:          Percentageof rural and    Living Standard          Government and
Reducing rural poverty     urban households under    Measurement Surveys      international donors
                           poverty line                                       adequately respond to
Pillar I11of PRSP:                                   Banking I financial      natural disasters
Reducing urban poverty     Number and amount of      sector annual reports
                           banks' loan portfolios    and independent          Government
                           securedby rural and       assessments              successfully implements
                           urban land parcels                                 the social agenda
                                                     Urban construction
                           Urbanhousing and          industry assessments     Government implements
                           construction investment   (partially financed by   a comprehensive rural
                           rates                     project)                 development strategy in
                                                                              the context of the
                           Value of rural and urban  Periodic stratified land Poverty Reduction
                           land parcels              marketsurveys and        Strategy Paper (PRSP)
                                                     property owners
Pillar VI of PRSP:         Percentageof citizens     assessments (partially
Improving governance,      satisfied with            financed by project)
transparency and           Government institutions
ensuring sustainability    and programs              Popular surveys
Program purpose:           End-of-Program            Program reports:         (from Program
(2004-2016)                indicators:                                        purpose to CAS goal)

An integrated national     * All relevant public     Real estate agents       Financial system
and decentralized          entities operate SINAP    association              (banking, insurance)
property rights system     (Property Institute, INA, (ANAHBIR)reports         and legal establishment
(SINAP) under a single     COHDEFOR, RNP,                                     (lawyers, notaries,
entity generates,          SGJ, SERNA, Ministry      Banking and Insurance    accounting, courts)
registers, and links land- of Tourism)                                        reforms that encourage
use, geographical, and                               Commission reports
                                                                              property markets (e.g.,
legal information on       * 50% of  the country's
public and private         municipalities operate    SINIMUNreports            securitization of

property (real estate,     SINAP                                               mortgages, on-the-spot

movable assets,                                      SINAP subsystems         registration, digital

commercial rights, and     * Lands in  all depts.    reports (SINIT, SURE)     signatures)implemented

intellectual property      (>70% of all PhaseI11
rights) in an accessible,  parcels, S O % of Phase   Program's MIS reports     Other measures to
efficient and timely       I1parcels, >90% of                                  improve investment
manner                     PhaseIparcels)            Independent               climate (e.g., labor
                           incorporated to SINAP     evaluations of SINAP      regulations, tax regime)
                                                                               implemented
                           * 50% of  movable assets  Stakeholder, customer,
                           incorporated to SINAP     and beneficiary surveys   New public financial
                                                                               accountability system
                                                                               implemented




                                                     22

Project development        PDOindicators:            Project reports:        from PDO to Program
objective:                                                                   purpose)

An integrated and         Systemmaintains a 96%      ZINAP subsystem         hccessfulintegration
decentralized land        rate of titled lands       :SURE,SINIT) reports    )fthe various
administration system     2ccurately registered in                           ,egistries, movable
(composed of public and   SINAP                      hdependent              issets, commercial,
private entities)                                    :valuations of SINAP    indintellectual
providing users inthee    At least 70% of SINAP
project areas with                                                           roperty rights
                          users (and % of women)     Zegistry annual report
accurate information on   rate its services as                               .egistries
urban and rural land                                 mdfinancial statements
                          "satisfactory" (third
parcels and effective     level on a four-level                              (ey features of new
land administration       scale)                     Stakeholder, customer,  egal and institutional
services (transactions,                              mdbeneficiary surveys   Yamework:
mortgages, cadastral and   The average time to
registry certifications,   register a land           Project's MIS reports         Transfer of
etc.) in a timely, cost-   transaction is 7 days                                   registries from
effective manner                                     [ndependentimpact             Judicial to
                           Average administrative    :valuation report             Executive
                           cost of registering a                              I)   Consolidation of
                           land transaction i s 2.07 IDAsupervision reports       folio real
                           US$ equiv.                                        I)    Consolidation of
                                                     Mid-termReview                all registries
                           100%of the Registry's     (MTR)                    0    Strengthening of
                           operating costs covered                                 decentralized land
                           by registration fees      Implementation                administration to
                                                     Completion Report             municipal levels
                           At least 60% of the       (ICR)

                           conflicts on national
                           lands (protected areas
                           and forests) inthe
                           project area are
                           resolved
 Outputfrom each           Outputindicators:         Project reports:         (from outputs to
 component:                                                                   objective)

 1.Policy Framework                                                           Comprehensive
 and Institutional                                                            institutional and
 Strengthening                                                                regulatory reform is
                                                                               approved to consolidate
 The National Property      60 access I connection    1. Laws, regulatory      the real estate property
 Administration System      points to SINAP           decrees, and policy      institutional and
 (SINAP) i s created,       established inpublic and  statementsofficially     regulatory regime
 including a National       private entities          published and
 Land Information                                     disseminated by          Judicial reform
 System (SINIT), its        600 people certified to   Government               facilitates the
 Registry of Norms          operate SINAP                                      independence of, and
 (RENOT), and the           subsystems                Quarterly project         accessby, the poor to
 Unified Registries                                   implementation reports    the courts
 System (SURE), and                                   prepared by PCU
 operates at selected
 public & private entities




                                                      23

 2. Area-based
 SystematicLand                                                                Government entities
 Regularization, Titling                                                       enforce existing
 and Registration                                                              measures (such as the
                                                                               1992 Agricultural
 Land parcels (private      70% of land parcels in  2. Project-generated       Modernization Law) and
 and public, rural and                              field reports, maps,       all future land tenure
 urban) are incorporated    the project area are
                                                    assessments, etc.          laws and policies, as
 in SINAP underfolio        registered in SINAP                                they affect achievement
 real in the project area: undera parcel-based
                            system (folio real)     SINITreports, SURE         of the project objective

 *                                                  reports for each type of
   Comayagua (3rd step                              land regularized, titled   Government adopts a
 of pilot; rural & urban)  70% of land
 * Cortes                                           and incorporated in        comprehensive forestry
           (all 3 steps in transactions inthe       SINAP:                     policy that clarifies and
 rural and urban areas)    project area are
 * Francisco                                                                   enforces rights over
               Morazan     registered in SINAP      * National   public lands  forest lands and that
 (1st step, all urban      underfolio real          (forests, protected areas) strengthens the
 areas; 2ndand 31dsteps,                            *** Private
                                                       Municipal lands         regulatory functions of
 Tegucigalpa only)         Percentageof parcels
 *                                                              urban lands    COHDEFOR
   Atlantida (1st step,    incorporated in SINAP        Private rural lands
 selected rural areas; 2nd  with a woman as         (including lands           Appropriate legal and
 and 31dsteps, selected    principal owner          belonging to ethnic        institutional frameworks
 protected, forest and                              groups, individually or    are inplace for
 ethnic rural areas)        745,000 land parcels in
 * Colon                                            collectively)              protected areas
           (Iststep,       the project area                                    (including adequate
 selected rural; 2ndand     surveyed and            Project's MIS reports      funding o f a Fondo de
 31dsteps, selected ethnic regularized                                         Areas Protegidas)
 rural areas)
 * Gracias                                          Performance I field
            a Dios (1st     12,000 parcels surveyed evaluation reports of all  Appropriate
 step, selected rural; 2nd in national forest areas contractors                mechanisms are inplace
 and 31dsteps, selected                                                        to resolve land issues of
 ethnic rural areas)        12 protected areas (an
 * Choluteca                                                                   indigenous and Afro-
               (aerial     approx. area of 230,000                             Honduran peoples
 photo, geodesic grid)     ha) are demarcated and
                           incorporatedin SINAP                                All other land-related

                           40 municipalities                                   initiatives inthe

                           demarcated and 2,800                                country, urban and rural,

                            kms of inter-municipal                             use compatible cadastre

                            boundaries defined                                 and registration
                                                                               methodologies

                            Lands of 16 ethnic
                            communities in the                                 Municipalities have

                           project area demarcated                             access to increased

                           and surveyed by tenure                              (closer to the 5% of

                           category (and 12                                    national revenues

                           communities titled and                              mandated by law), more

                           registered in SINAP)                                regular, and more
                                                                               predictable resources

                           Number of                                           from the national

                           Regularization Tables                               government to

                           established                                         effectively carry out
                                                                               their land administration
                                                                               functions
I




                                                    24

3. Project Management,
Monitoring &
Evaluation

PhaseIof the Program     Annual Operating Plan   3. Quarterly project
is well managed and      and training plans      performance reports
properly coordinated     approved inNovember     from MIS, prepared by
with other related       for following year      PCU
initiatives, and the
management systems       Procurement Plan        Annual Audits
required for PhaseI1are  approved in September
fully operational        for following year      IDA supervision reports

                         PhaseIEvaluation        Mid-termReview
                         completed in three
                         months before closing   (MW

                         date                    Implementation
                                                 Completion Report
                         PIP for PhaseI1agreed
                         three months before     (ICR)

                         closing date of Phase I

Project components/      Inputs:                 Project reports:        (from components to
sub-components:                                                          outputs)

1.Policy Framework       Total: US$ 10.9 million Quarterly project       All three branches of
and Institutional                                performance reports     Government (executive,
Strengthening                                    prepared by PCU         legislative, andjudicial)
                                                                         continue to
1.1Policy and                                    Periodic reports        constructively debate
regulatory framework     US$ 1.4 million         submitted by the        and approve proposed

* Preparation                                    Procurement Agent to    laws and regulations
               of norms,                         Government
regulatory decrees, etc.
* Consultation,                                                          Agents in executive
                                                 Audits                  entities develop their
dissemination, public                                                    technical competence in
awareness events,                                Consultancy contracts   operating SINAP
newsletters                                                              subsystems fairly evenly
*                                                and reports
  Training on new                                                        and with adequate
regulations                                      IDA supervision reports institutional support

1.2 Development of                               Mid-term Review         INA and municipalities
technological platforms  USs5.3 million          (MW                     are able to adequately
                                                                         perform their land titling
* Development     of                             Implementation          functions in the project
SUREtechnical systems                            Completion Report       area
(consultants, equipment,                         (IW
software, training)
* Implementation                                                         Adequate counterpart
                    of                                                   funding is channeled to
SUREsystems                                                              the appropriate
(development of mass                                                     institutions ina timely
valuation system,                                                        manner
software, equipment,
consultants)                                                             Establishment, core




                                                 25

                                                        taffing, and recurrent
SINIT systems                                           xpenditures of new
(consultants, software,                                 nstitutions (e.g., IP) are
equipment)                                              ully funded by
                                                        3overnment or other
1.3 Institutional                                       inanciers, so that only
strengthening               US$4.3 million              roject-induced
                                                        ncremental
* Institutional  re-                                    :xpenditures are
engineering study                                       :overed by the project
* Minor    civil works, key
SINAP entities                                          The Procurement Agent,
* Equipment
*                                                       .e., UNDP, i s an
     Training and                                       :ffective contracting
certification inthe use                                 igent for the project
of SINAP subsystems
* Training   on alternative                             JCP receives adequate
conflict resolution                                     unding I support from
mechanism                                               )ther co-financiers, so
                                                        hat it i s able to ensure
2. Area-based                                           ;mooth project
Systematic Land Titling     Total: US$22.6 million      mplementation and
Regularization and                                      nter-project
Registration                                            :oordination

2.1Preparatory
activities for field work   US$3.0 million

**** Equipment,
     Aerial photography
     Ortho-photos
                 vehicles
     Review of maps,
preparation of field sites
 * Promotion,
preparation of local
 level entities
 * Operating   costs

 2.2 Field surveying of
 municipal boundaries,      US$ 1.2 million
 urban and rural areas,
 forests and protected
 areas
 * Technical   services for
 desk reviews and field
 surveying
 * Physical   demarcation
 onthe ground inCortes,
 Francisco Morazan,
 Atlantida and Gracias a
 Dios




                                                  26

2.3 Parcel-level
surveying and validation    US$ 14.0 million

* Promotion   and public
campaigns
* Surveying   inurban
and rural areas inCortes
and urban only in
Francisco Morazan
*  Onthe ground
technical and legal
assistanceto
beneficiaries for conflict
resolution
** Massive
   Registry review
           tranfer of
data tofolio real registry
** Technical supervision
   Cadastral validation
by DEC (consultants,
equipment)
* Operating  costs

2.4 Regularization and
titling                     US$4.4 million

* Promotion,   civic
education, dissemination
*  Training of trainers,
grassroots organizations,
beneficiary groups
* Establishment   of
Regularization Tables
* Mediation   and conflict
resolution
* Issuing land titles (by
INA and municipalities
* Mass   registration of
titles inSINAP
*  Training I certification
of selected private
sector service providers
** Goods
   Operating costs

3. Project Management,
Monitoring &                Total: US$5.3 million
Evaluation

3.1 Project management
3.2 Monitoring and
Evaluation




                                                 27

                                               ResultsFramework




 An integrated and decentralized         System maintains a 96% rate of        ?Y1:Ensure that required training
 land administration system              titled lands accurately registered in iffield staff, institutional partners,
 (composed of public and private         SINAP                                 indprivate sector certification is
 entities) providing users in the                                              ufficient to meet project targets.
 project areas with accurate             At least 70% of SINAP users (and
 information on urban and rural land     % of women) rate its services as      ?Y1-PY2: Ensure quality of field
 parcels and effective land              "satisfactory" (thirdlevel on a       eve1surveying data and results.
 administration services                 four-level scale)
 (transactions, mortgages, cadastral
 and registry certifications, etc.) in a The average time to register a land   PY3: Ensure that massive titling
 timely, cost-effective manner           transaction is 7 days                 ias started and is proceeding at a
                                                                               )ace that can ensure achievement
                                         Average administrative cost of        3 f expected results. Otherwise, re-
                                         registering a land transaction is     xient project to devote more
                                         2.07 US$equiv.                        :esources and political leverage to
                                                                               increase amount and speed of
                                         100%of the Registry's operating       titling. Improve coordination and
                                         costs covered by registration fees    performance of INA and
                                                                               municipalities in titling process.
I
                                         At least 60% of the conflicts on
                                         national lands (protected areas and
                                         forests) in the project area are      PY4: Review strengths and

                                         resolved                              weaknesses, prepare remedial plans
                                                                               to ensure achievement of PhaseI1
                                                                               triggers and prepare Phase I1




                                                           28

ComponentOne:                       ComponentOne:                      Component One:

SINAP public entities, regional     Fivepublic entities operate the    PY1-PY2: Adjust efforts (training,
registries and connection points    integratedSINAP subsystems         equipment, dissemination)to
have skills and equipmentto                                            ensure quality of work at initial
operateSINAP's subsystems           Eight registriesoperate SURE       entities, before launching new
(SINIT, SURE)                       underfolio real                    entities
                                                                       PY3-PY4: Gradual expansioninto
                                    15 municipalities operate SINAP    new entities and municipalities


Component Two:                      Component Two :                    ComponentTwo:

Land parcels (urban and rural) in   Percentageof titled land parcelsin PY1:Use lessons from Comayagua
the project area which are surveyed the project areaincorporatedin     pilot to develop typology of main
get regularized andlor titled and   SINAP underfolio real              problems intransfer of data.
incorporated in SINAP underfolio                                       Design solutions, adjust effort,
real                                Percentageof properties(urban      resources.
                                    andrura1)in the project area       PY2-PY3: Are solutions working
                                    transferredfromthe existing deed-  innew registries?If so expand.If
                                    based registriesto SINAP under     not, concentrateon quality control
                                    folio real                         PY4: Evaluate quality and speed of
                                                                       titling I registration. Reassign
                                    Percentageof lands belonging to    resources to titling agencies (INA
                                    ethnic groups (individually or     and municipalities) if needed.
                                    collectively) in the project area  Feedinto preparationof Phase 11.
                                    regularized, titled, and
                                    incorporatedin SINAP

Component Three:                    ComponentThree:                    ComponentThree:

Annual managementplans and          Processfor preparing Annual        PY1: I s UNDP performing in
processespreparedin a timely        Operating, training, and           financial management and
fashion                             procurementplans for following     procurementrole? If not, seek
                                    year begin 3 months before due     alternatives.
End-of-PhaseIevaluation and         date                               PY2: Ifneeded, hire new FMI
collection of Phase I1baselinedata                                     procurement agent.
preparedin atimely fashion          TORs for Impact Evaluation of      Ensure timely execution of MTR
                                    Phase Iready by January of YR4,    surveys.
                                    entity contractedby April of YR4   PY4: Feedmanagement, M&E
                                                                       lessons into design of Phase 11.
                                    TORs for Baselinefor Phase I1
                                    agreed in January of YR4, entity
                                    contractedby April of YR4




                                                      29

I




             83  4
                 - g-  8
                       4    N   b   W


     8
     W
     m  8                   N  m  d

                                      3
                                      m




$
-  E  *  -g    %m    8    x
                          A
                     VI   -r  I  I

       C


         2z          Q    Q
0  0  j2      z      2    2   2  2

                           Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                      HONDURAS: LandAdministration Program

Project development objective and key indicators

The project's development objective (Phase Iof the Program) is: An integrated and
decentralized land administration system (composed of public and private entities) i s
providing users inthe project area with accurate information on urban and rural land
parcels and effective land administration services (purchase, mortgages, cadastral and
registry certifications, etc.) ina timely and cost-effective manner.

The main benefit of the project will be to greatly increase land tenure security among
urban and rural property owners (be they poor or rich) inthe most dynamic region in
Honduras and among historically disadvantaged indigenous and Afro-Honduran
populations on the Atlantic coast. Regularizedand registered titles that are fully
enforceable against third parties, and accepted as collateral for credit, typically yield
immediate returns to their owners through higher property values. They also stimulate
land transfers, reduce transaction costs, increase the incentives for longer-term capital
investments, and promote more sustainable use of land and water resources. Poor people
such as peri-urban settlers and small farmers will benefit directly from title regularization
and registration. Potential indirect benefits may also accrue from better employment
opportunities, from improved public services and land use planning.

Inurban areas, landtransaction costs will bereduced considerably. A recent study
calculatedthat i s took 430 administrative steps, 1,080 days and US$1.093 just to
purchase a private parcel, subdivide it, and legally buildhouses on it. Landrights
registered under a modern parcel-based system, coupled with simplified regulations and
more efficient institutions, will dramatically reduce these transaction time and costs. The
value of most urban properties owned b y the poor and without legal title inF. Morazkn
and Cortes, i s estimated at US$2.3 billion. If inany given year, only 2 percent of these
assets were used as collateral for investment credit with a modest annual return o f 5
percent, the annual benefits generated would be US$2.3 million.

Similar types of benefits are expected in rural areas. Secure land tenure promotes
agricultural development through three mechanisms: the investment demand effect; the
collateral value (credit supply) effect; and the transaction effect which encourages
transfers to more productive owners and uses. In addition increased land tenure security
inrural areas tends to reduce social tensions, encourage landleasing, improve income
distribution, and ultimately leadto higher long-term economic growth rates. Evidence
across the world shows that increased tenure security and more equitable distribution of
land enhances both production efficiency and equity. More specifically the project will
target indigenous and Garifuna lands for demarcation and regularization, thus benefiting
some of the most disadvantaged social groups inthe country.

The regularization and cadastral surveying of selected protected areas, national parks, and
forest lands inthe project area will have positive environmental impacts by facilitating


                                              32

the development of more reliable natural resource management and land use plans. As
intermediate benefits, an integrated, efficient, and more transparent land administration
system will also yield asset-based taxation to the national and local governments.

The project's development indicators (PDO) are: (i) maintains a 96% rate of
                                                             System
titled lands accurately registered in SINAP; (ii)        Satisfactory rating (thirdlevel on a four-
level scale) by at least 70% of SINAP users including a certain percentage of women;
(iii) Average time to register a land transaction i s 7 days or less; (iv) Average
administrative cost of registering a land transaction i s 2.07 US$ equiv. or less; (v)
Operating costs of Registry 100%covered by registration fees; and (vi) Conflicts in 60%
o f national lands (forests and protected areas) inthe project area are resolved.

Project components

The project will have three components: (i) framework and institutional
                                                    Policy
strengthening; (ii)     area-based systematic land regularization, titling, and registration; and
(iii) managementandmonitoringandevaluation.ThecostsandIDAcontribution
      project
of each component and sub-component are summarized inTable 1below).




                                                                   cost
                            Component                           Including      % of      IDA          %
                                                               Contingencies   Total  Financing    Financing
                                                                  (US$M)              (US$M)
 1.PolicyFramework and Institutional Strengthening
    1.1 Policy and Regulatory Framework                                   1.4     3.6          1.1      79.5
    1.2 Development of Technological Platforms                            5.3    13.5         3.1       58.0
    1.3 Institutional Strengthening                                       4.3    11.0         3.7       85.9
 Subtotal                                                                10.9    28.1         7.8       71.6
 2. Area-based Systematic Land Regularization, Titling                       I
   and Registration
    2.1 Preparatory Activities for Field Work                             3.O     7.7          1.6       54.0
    2.2 Delimitationof of MunicipalBoundaries, Urbanand
     Rural Areas, Forests, Protected Areas, and Ethnic Lands              1.2     3.1          0.6       48.4
    2.3 Parcel-levelSurveying and Validation                             14.0    36.0          8.7       61.8
    2.4 Legalization, ,Titling, and Registration                          4.41   11.41         2.61      59.4
 Subtotal                                                                22.71   58.21       13.51       59.6




Component 1(US$ 10.9 million) will be national in scope, and i s one key instrument in
the Government's strategy to modernize the current fragmented and weak institutional
framework. The main reforms needed are (a) streamlining the massive land
regularization, titling and registration process and (b) improving the delivery o f land
administration services, makingthem more accessible and efficient at the local level.
Investments under this component will result inincreased transparency and improved
governance of the country's main land administration institutions. The Component's
main output will be the establishment (through legal, regulatory, and institutional



                                                    33

reforms) of a National Property Administration System (SINAP) which includes a
National Territorial Information System (SINIT), its Registry of Norms (RENOT), and
the Unified Registries System (SURE) to be operated by selected public and private
entities.

The component will have three sub-components:

1.1 Policy andregulatoryframework (US$1.4 million)

The project will finance the provision of technical assistance to prepare policies, norms,
regulatory decrees, and other similar instruments related to property rights and land
administration. It will also finance consultation, dissemination and public awareness
activities related to these policy and regulatory changes. And finally, the project will
finance training and carrying out of workshops on the policy and regulatory changes that
get enacted in the course of project implementation.

1.2 Development of technologicalplatforms (US$5.3 million)

The project will finance the development of an integrated registry system (Sistema
Integrado de Registros, SURE) technical systems (inthe form of technical assistance,
equipment, software, training and workshops). SURE will be a computerized, parcel-
based registration system that will benefit from the most advanced information and
communication technology to improve local delivery of services, including web based
services. The project will also finance the development and implementation o f the
Sistemade Informacidn Territorial (SINIT) systems, a geographicalinformation system
for urban and regional planning, a regulatory subsystem (RENOT), the Center for
Forestry Information and Statistic, (CIEF) and the National System of Municipal
Information (SINIMUN).

According to the project information and communications technology (ICT) master plan,
the project will also finance the necessary telecommunication network so that services
can reach decentralized offices and remote project areas. This will include technical
services, the purchase of equipment and up grading of buildings where the ICT system
will be installed.

1.3 Institutional strengthening (US$4.3 million)

The project will finance significant institutional re-engineeringo f key co-executing
agencies, particularly the Property and Mercantile Registry (RPIM), the Executive
Directorate of the National Cadastre (DEC), and the National Geographical Institute
(IGN). This will include minor civil works and equipment for key SINAP executing
entities, including municipalities.

The project will put special emphasis on strengthening and training human resources both
from the public and private sectors. It will finance training activities carried out in
partnershipwith professionaltraining agencies such as the National Institute for



                                               34

ProfessionalTraining (INFOP), the Federal Association of Surveyors (FIG) andthe
Central American Training Network on Land Administration (RECCAT).

Under this sub-component training and workshops will focus on certification for the
operation of SINAP subsystems and on alternative conflict resolution mechanisms.
Certification will contribute the quality of SINAP operations and thus to land tenure
security and confidence inthe whole process.

Output indicators for this component are:

    60 access / connectionpoints to SINAPestablished inpublic andprivate entities
    600people certified to operate SINAP subsystems

Component 2 (US$ 22.7 million) will be area-specific. Activities under this component
will directly benefit the populations residinginthe project area (rural and urban; poor and
rich; women and men; ladino, indigenous, and Afro-Hondurans) by massive
regularization, titling and registration of land. The Component's main output will be the
incorporation of landparcels inthe project area into SINAP under a computerized parcel-
based property registry (Le. computerizedfolio real).

The component will have four sub-components:

2.1 Preparatoryactivities for field work (US$3.0 million). This stage of the process
will consist of a thorough review of all existing paper and digital data (geographical and
textual) inthe official cadastral and land records of the executing agencies, such as
RPIM, DECand IGN. Data searched such as documents and maps will be checked for
accuracy using a systematic process to ensure quality control.

This preparatory phase is essential for this massive systematic parcel based regularization
process. At that stage it i s also key the project set up inter institutional mechanisms so
that the whole regularization process be well coordinated and streamlined.

The project will finance technical preparatory activities necessary for systematic parcel-
based field surveys in selected localities within the project areas, including (i) new aerial
photography and generation of ortho-photos and line maps; (ii)        purchase of equipment
and vehicles; (iii) technical services relatedto the review of maps and preparation of field
sites; (iv) promotion through intensive public campaigns; (v) preparation of local level
entities; and (vi) financing of operating costs.

2.2 Delimitation of macro areas (US$ 1.2 million).

The project will finance technical services for desk reviews, field delimitation, andthe
physical demarcation of macro areas (inter-municipal boundaries, urban and rural areas,
forests, protected areas, ethnic lands) in selected localities in Cortks, Francisco MorazBn,
AtlBntida, and Gracias a Dios. Comayagua was already covered by PAAR.




                                               35

The objective of this process i s to define the territorial layout according to the physical
characteristics and the particular uses given to land and to identify (i) the legal regime
under which each specific area will fall, (ii) the institutions incharge of each specific area
delimited, and (iii) the land use constraints that apply to each area. Urbanboundaries are
approvedby municipal councils. The delimitation and demarcation of protected areas and
forests proposed by the Secretariat for Natural Resources and the Environment (SERNA)
are approved b y Congress and come under the administration of AFE-COHDEFOR.
Agricultural lands inrural areas are under the responsibility of INA.

The delimitation of macro areas will be carried out with the active participation of local
stakeholders, including local communities, local NGOs, beneficiaries, and responsible
state agencies. Fieldteams will delimitate the area boundaries together with local
stakeholders so that consensus on boundaries are reached inthe field.

The project will finance technical assistance and purchase of equipment and vehicles for
the institutions incharge of land use planning (SEGJ, AFE-COHDEFOR, INA,
municipalities).

2.3 Parcel-level surveying and validation (US$ 14.0million)

Systematic cadastral field surveys of urban and rural areas will be carried out inorder to
gather technical and legal parcel-based information to complement mapping activities.
This process will also determine the ownership (public or private) of the land under
survey. The outcome of this process i s the clear delimitation and demarcation of property
boundaries and clarification of property rightson each parcel.

The project will finance
         carrying out of promotion and public campaigns ineach project area prior to field
         survey;
         contracting of national and international firms for systematic field surveying in
         urban and rural areas within the project area;
         provision of on the ground technical and legal assistance to beneficiaries for
         alternative (Le., non administrative or judicial) conflict resolution duringthe
         survey process;
         carrying out of post-field activities consisting of technical and legal analysis and
         comparison of field surveys with existing old registries' information, as well as
         technical and legal clarification of corresponding rights; and
         provision of consultants' services, equipment and operating costs to carry out
         technical supervisionby existing institutions such as DEC and RPIM, as well as
         private firms specialized inquality control and insurance.

2.4 Legalization, titling, and registration (US$4.0 million)

This is the most important stage of the landregularizationprocess, since it confronts the
legal difficulties surrounding certainpieces of land such as an absence of written




                                               36

documentationto verify ownership or discrepancies between field reality and existing
legal but out dated records.

This stage includes titling of parcels by INA (rural lands) and municipalities (urban
lands), legalization of forest and public lands, as well as selected protectedareas and
ethnic lands, and registration of these into SINAP. It also includes rectification of
already titled documents and transfer from the old personal registry to the new
computerized parcel-based property registry system (folio real).

Inthis stage, landconflicts will be resolved, parcels will be titled, andthen registered.
Throughthe titling process the Government will recognize the right of citizens to own a
certain piece of land. Property rights and land holdings will be recorded in a publicly-
accessible registry. There are two ways to acquire land: Titling by the State (INA for
rural lands and Municipalities for urban lands) or from a private agent through sale,
donation or inheritance.

Key activities inthis stage include:

   Provision of technical assistance to order properties within the project area according
   to land tenure and use;
   prior to the approval and legalization of the information collectedinthe field,
   disclosure of such data (vistapu'blica) providing adequate time for opposition and
   resolution of conflicts;
   implementation of alternative mechanisms for conflict resolution incases where
   certain irregularities inthe land registry are notedduringthe titling and registration
   process, including the establishment of regularization tables, mediation and other
   conflict resolution mechanisms;
   legalization, titling and registration of properties within the project area by INA and
    municipalities;
    legalization, titling and registration of property within the project area which i s
    owned by the State for public use (streets, roads, parks, lakes, lagoons, seas, rivers
    and beaches) in a unified parcel-based system of registries (folio real);
   carrying out of a census of occupants inEthnic Lands within the project area and
    legalization, titling, and registration of selected Ethnic Lands within the project area;
   carrying out of a census of occupants on forestry management units (unidades de
   gestidnforestal) within the project area and provision of certificates of occupation to
    such inhabitants, subject to the acquiescence of said inhabitants, as provided inthe
   management plans; legalization, titling and registration of selected forestry
   management unitswithin the project area to the State for administration b y AFE-
    COHDEFOR under a parcel-based system; and transfer of all these data into a Center
   for Forestry Information and Statistics (CIEF), a subsystem of SINAP;
   carrying out of a census of occupants on Protected Areas within the project area and
   provision of certificates of occupation to such inhabitants, subject to the acquiescence
   o f said inhabitants, as provided inthe management plans; legalization, titling and
   registration of selected Protected Areas within the project area to the State under a
   parcel-based system.


                                               37

The extent o f implementationof these activities will vary by Department, according to
Table 2 and the map below. The project will finance the entire process only inCortCs
(urban and rural) and Francisco M o r a z h (urban only). InComayagua it will conclude
the process for urban and rural parcels, since the earlier phases have already been carried
out under the PAAR project.

                                                 Table 2
                          Field Project Activities by Department

                                                        Parcel-Level Surveying and             Regularization, Titling,
 DEPARTAMENT         Delimitation of Macro Areas                  Validation                          Registration
                                 Urban                                Urban                                Urban
Cortes                           Rural                                 Rural                                Rural
                                 Urban
Francisco Morazan                Rural                    Urban (central district only)        Urban (central district only)
                                                                                                           Urban
Comayagua              Already done under PAAR             Already done under PAAR                          Rural

                                                         Rural(selected areas, ethnic*        Rural(selected areas, ethnic*
Atlhntida                 Rural(selected areas)        lands, forest lands,protected areas) lands, forest lands,protected areas)

                                                         Rural(selected areas, protected      Rural(selected areas, protected
Colon                     Rural(selected areas)                areas. ethnic* lands)                areas. ethnic* lands)

                      Rural(selected areas, ethnic*      Rural(selected areas, ethnic*        Rural(selected areas, ethnic*
Gracias a Dios                   lands)                               lands)                               lands)
                        Selected activities (aerial
Choluteca             photography, geodesic grid)




Output indicators for this component are:

0   70% of landparcels inthe project area are registered in SINAP under a parcel-based
    system (folio real)
0   70% of landtransactions inthe project area are registered inSINAP underfolio real
0   Percentage of parcels incorporated in SINAP with a woman as principal owner
0   745,000 landparcels inthe project area surveyed and regularized
0   12,000 parcels surveyed innational forest areas
0   12protected areas (approx. 230,000 ha) are demarcated and incorporatedin SINAP
0   40 municipalities demarcated and 2,800 kms of inter-municipal boundaries defined
0   Lands of 16 ethnic communities inthe project area demarcated and surveyed by
    tenure category (and 12communities titled and registered)
0   Number of Regularization Tables established

Component 3 (US$5.3 million) covers the administration costs o f the Project
Coordination Unit and the activities related to monitoring and evaluation. The PCUwill
be a critical instrument to ensure efficient administration of the project and effective
coordination with other land-relatedprojects inthe country.



                                                   38

The project will finance the provision of technical assistance, equipment, training,
workshops and incremental operating costs, as necessary, to operate and strengthen the
PCUand to monitor and evaluate the implementationof the project, including the
effective coordination with other land-related projects inthe country, beneficiary
assessments, surveys, and other data collection activities. The component will also
finance audit services.

Output indicators for this component are:
0   Annual Operating Plan and training plans approved inNovember for following year
0   Procurement Plan approved in September for following year
0   Phase IEvaluation completed inthree months before closing date
0   PIPfor Phase I1agreed three months before closing date of Phase I




                                             39

             a,

            n0
             S


             Y
            -aa
             0
            n
             .-0S
             c
             0
             c
             a,
              v)
             a
  I

        .-S
        0
        c
        eaQ          0
        2            d
  I     a
b if

        a
  :a
  I     w
  I     a
        U

  I
        Y
        a
        I
        2U
  1     u
        0
        u
        w
        Y
        sn..
        I


        cu
        .-br
        u.


                                     Annex 5: Project Costs
                       HONDURAS: LandAdministration Program


                                                                       Local      Foreign       Total
   Project Cost by Components and Activity                              us          us           us
                                                                    $Million $Million          $Million

 1.PolicyFrameworkandInstitutionalStrengthening
   1.1Policy and Regulatory Framework                                       1.o           0.4         1.4
   1.2 Development of Technological Platforms                               3.6           1.6        5.2
   1.3 Institutional Strengthening                                          2.6           1.5        4.1
 Subtotal Policy Framework and Institutional Strengthening                  7.2           3.5        10.7
 2. Area-based Systematic LandRegularization, Titling,
  and Registration
   2.1 Preparatory Activities for FieldWork                                 1.9           0.9        2.8
   2.2 Field Surveying of MunicipalBoundaries, Urban and
       Rural Areas, Forests, Protected Areas, and Ethnic Lands              0.7           0.4         1.1
   2.3 Parcel-levelSurveyingand Validation                                  8.8           4.5        13.3
   2.4 RegularizationandTitling                                             3.0           1.2        4.2
 Subtotal Area-based Systematic LandRegularization,                        14.4           7.O        21.4
 Titling and Registration
 3. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                           4.4           0.9         5.3
Total Baseline Cost                                                       26.0            11.4       37.4
   Physical Contingencies                                                   0.4           0.4         0.8
   Price Contingencies                                                      0.1           0.6         0.7
                                            Total Project Costs'           26.5           12.4       38.9
                                       Total FinancingRequired             26.5           12.4       38.9


'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$m2.2, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$m36.7
Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes i s 95%.


                                 Financing Planby Financier

                                          (US$ Million)

                                    IDA             Nordic Fund         GOH                   Total
                             Amount        %    Amount      %     Amount        %       Amount      %

   I.Foreign                        8.9    72.5         3.4  27.5                            12.3    31.6
   11. Local(Excl. Taxes)          16.1    65.8         4.5  18.5        3.8     15.6        24.4    62.9
   111.Taxes                                                             2.2    100.0         2.2    5.5
Total Project Cost                 25.0    64.3         7.9  20.3        6.0     15.4        38.9  100.0




                                                 42

                         Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                      HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

The project will be implementedfollowing the successful experience o f the ongoing
PAARproject, with one important difference. Unlike PAAR, the Ministry of
Governance and Justice (Secretaria de Gobernacidn y Justicia, SGJ) will be the overall
implementing agency for this project. Government has selected this agency, instead of
the Ministry of Agriculture (SAG) which implements PAAR, because SGJ i s responsible
for (i) the cadastre, (ii)
                         territorial planning, (iii) society participation and indigenous
                                                   civil
peoples rights, and (iv) decentralization and municipal issues.

The already established Project CoordinationUnit (PCU) will also coordinate
implementation of other IDA-financedprojects, including the ongoing Natural Disasters
Mitigation Project (PMDN,PO64913) and the upcoming Forestry and Rural Productivity
Project (PBPR, PO64914). The PCU i s responsible for administrative andcoordination
functions and will be attached to the GabineteAgro-Productivo and will be co-financed
by the three projects. This arrangement will create synergies, ensure coordination, and
take advantage of complementarities among the three projects, which have common
objectives. Withinthe PCUthere will be a small Technical Unit (TU) responsible for
overseeing the day-to-day implementation of project activities.

Interms of coordination within the PCUamong the three IDA-financedprojects,
technical staff will participate inthe design and supervision of similar activities, and
products developed under one project will be used by the others. For example, the maps
including forest areas delimitations developed duringthe macro surveying activities and
financed by the PATHproject, will be used by AFE-COHDEFOR to develop
management plans, with funds provided by the PBPR. COPECO will identify risk-prone
areas through PMDNfinancing. This information will be used by INA and
municipalities to restrict titling activities inthese areas duringimplementation of PATH
activities.

The project will have a high-level Council of Governors, chaired b y SGJ, with
representatives of each o f the executing agencies and civil society representatives. It will
meet periodically and be responsible for providing policy direction; identifying legal,
institutional, and regulatory reforms; and supervising compliance of the project's key
agreements (Participation Agreements, Municipality Agreement, Administrator
Agreement) and other formal arrangements. There will also be a Technical Steering
Committee with representatives o f executing agencies and selected independent advisors
to ensure proper coordination o f project activities at the field level, and to provide
specialized advice to the Council of Governors.

The executing entities, the Executive Directorate of the National Cadastre (DEC), the
Property and Mercantile Registry (RPIM), National Geographic Institute (IGN), the
National Agrarian Institute (INA), the National Personal Identification Registry (RNP),
the Honduran Corporation for Forestry Development (AFE-COHDEFOR), the Ministry


                                                43

o f National Resources and Environment (SERNA), the Institute for Professional Training
(INFOP), the Honduran Anthropology and History Institute (MAH), the Honduran
Institute of Tourism (MT), and the Honduran Association o f Municipalities (AHMON).
These entities will be required each to enter into a "Participation Agreement" with SGJ.
Similarly SGJ will enter into a "Municipality Agreement" with each respective
municipality where project activities will take place.

The existing SINREC agreement, signed on May 2,2002 between the executive branch -
responsible for cadastre administration, the judicial branch -responsible for the real
estate registry, and civil society representatives (FONAC) will function as an umbrella
agreement for the Participation Agreements. Through the SINREC agreement the
executive andjudicial branches are committed to integrate the cadastre and registry and
more generally to coordinate and cooperate incarrying out land regularization and
administration activities through the executing entities under their respective authority. A
Letter of Development Programwill be signed by Government, through which it will
commit to the principles and main objectives of the project: transparent and secure
information on property rights, reduced transaction costs, accessible services. Additional
cooperation agreements will be sought with other entities, such as universities and NGOs
for training activities and with the association of real estate agencies andthe banking
association, among others, for specific project activities.

The PCU will coordinate the activities and investments relatedto the development of a
policy and regulatory framework, technological infrastructure, and institutional
strengthening (Component 1). Specifically the Council of Governors will play a key role
indeterminingthe policy andregulatory framework, including proposinglegal and
regulatory reforms that are needed to avoidbottlenecks duringproject implementation.
Activities related to the development of the technological platforms will be largely
contracted out, and will be financed by IDA and the Nordic fund. With active
participation of the Council of Governors and the Technical Steering Committee, the
PCUwill coordinate institutional strengthening activities financed by IDA and
Government) in the relevant executing agencies.

Under Component 2, four sets of activities will be financed by the project: (i)   preparatory
activities for field work; (ii)delimitation of macro areas (inter-municipal boundaries,
urban and rural areas, forests, protected areas, lands of ethnic communities); (iii) parcel-
level surveying and validation; and (iv) regularization, titling, and registration.

Pre-field work activities (aerial photography, generation of ortho-maps, etc.) will be
largely contracted out. Under (ii)   the project will finance delimitation and demarcation
on the ground of municipal boundaries, and all types o f areas (urban, rural, forest,
protected areas, indigenous lands). Inthe case of delimitation and demarcation of
municipal boundaries and urban and rural areas, the TU will coordinate delimitation and
demarcation activities carried out by private companies incollaboration with the
municipalities, DEC, and the Territorial Planning Directorate at SGJ; DEC will validate
the data; the Territorial Planning Directorate will certify the boundaries; and the
municipalities will approve the agreed boundaries.



                                               44

Inthe case of forest andprotected areas, the TUwill coordinate delimitation and
demarcation activities carried out by private companies incollaboration with AFE-
COHDEFOR, and the municipalities incase these areas fall inside municipalities. AFE-
COHDEFOR will validate the field data and incorporatethe resulting maps into the
National Forest Catalogue. Ifnew protectedareas are being proposed as a result of
delimitation activities, SERNA will submit a request to Congress. The results o f this first
phase will be notified to INA, IGN, and SGJ. Incase o f conflicts between municipalities,
SGJ will function as arbiter. Duringthis phase, all relevant civil society representatives,
including indigenous peoples leaders, will be involved inthe field work under the
coordination of the Civil Society Participation Directorate (part of SGJ). The project will
also finance territorial planning studies and a communication and promotion campaign
(both to be contracted out).

Under (iii), parcel-level surveying and validation, DEC will compile all the existing field
data and will plan the remaining necessary field operations, including aerial photography
and geodetic networks incoordination with IGN. Surveying activities will be carried out
by private contractors incollaboration with municipalities. At the same time, the TU
will analyze existing registry data incoordination with RPIM. The TU, incollaboration
with DEC and RPIM, will compare the resulting cadastre and registry data, and inthose
cases where there i s no conflict RPIM will proceed with the registration o f the titles into
thefolio real system. Duringthis phase, preliminary conflict resolution activities will be
carried out inthe field b y certified paralegal staff. A communication and promotion
campaign will also be financed b y the project (to be contracted out).

The last stage (iv) starts with the public disclosure of information (vistapdblica), to allow
social participation and validation of data. At the same time, Regularization Tables
(mesas de regularizacidn) will be established with the participation of DEC, INA,
municipalities, RPIM, the National Personal Identification Registry (RNP), civil society
representatives and local committees for specific land uses (including forest areas,
protectedareas, and indigenous peoples lands). The project will cover the cost o f setting
up and runningthese Regularization Tables. The function of these Tables is to provide
legal advice, identify overlapping claims, facilitate resolution of conflicts, and handle title
requests. A conciliation center, composed of certified paralegal staff, will facilitate the
resolution of conflicts and provide legal advice. An education and communication
campaign (financed by the project and to be contracted out) will be targeted to
beneficiaries and grassroots organizations to ensure their active participation inthe round
tables. Titles are then granted by INA inthe case o f rural lands, andby the municipality
inthe case of urban areas. Inthe case of nationalforest areas andprotectedareas, DEC
will submit to Am-COHDEFOR a list of occupants for future management plan
development. Inthe case of indigenous lands, titles will be granted by INA. All granted
titles will have to be registered inthe RPIM, andincorporated inthe SINAP system.

From several analyses carried out during project preparation (institutional, legal, etc.), it
has emerged that there i s a significant lack of capacity and resources (technical, human,
and financial) to implement the project. The project will finance the institutional



                                              45

strengthening requirement of key implementing agencies, such as DEC, RPIM, and IGN
inthe form of equipment (computers, network of telecommunications, GPS), minor civil
works, and training and capacity building(use of the new integrated system o f registry
and cadastre, quality control skills, communication skills, etc.). The project will finance
a certification process for several key staff of co-implementing agencies and selected
private entities involved inthe regularization activities and regular operation o f the
SINAP system (e.g., certification of lawyers, of paralegal staff for conflict resolution
activities, o f surveying personnel). Through a participation agreement, INFOP will be
the key implementing agency responsible for these activities, together with universities
and NGOs, both at the national and internationallevel. Capacity issues related to the
flow of funds, financial management and disbursement are addressed inAnnex 7;
capacity assessment for procurement i s addressedinAnnex 8.

It is possible that within the lifetime of the project new legislation will be passed which
will affect the institutional framework for land administration. Within the new legal
framework, it i s envisaged that the functions and responsibilities of three o f the co-
implementing agencies (IGN, DEC, and RPIM) will be consolidated under the Property
Institute, as a de-concentrated agency under the Presidency. The Property Institute would
thenberesponsible for surveying activities, and maintenance of the cadastre andregistry.

If andwhen theseschanges occur the institutional arrangements for project
implementationwould be modified accordingly. A transition plan i s being developed,
which would ensure a smooth cross over to a possible new institutional framework. The
transition plan will include the design and implementationof a strategy for the
development of a regulatory framework for the new law; a strategy for adjusting the
regularization, cadastre, and registration field operations; the design and implementation
of a communication strategy for the new law; and a declining plan of absorption of
project-funded consultants by the Government's budget, particularly as it relates to the
creation of the new institutional framework. The plan should reflect the Government's
policy on how to shift implementation responsibility to the new institutional framework
and the private sector.

The project will be a catalyst for land regularization activities financed by other donors in
the project, and other areas. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating project
activities with those carried out by implementing agencies financed by GTZ in selected
areas inthe Rio Platano located inthe Department of Gracias a Dios. Specifically, aerial
photography and demarcation activities, including demarcation and titling o f selected
indigenous lands located inthis area, will be carried out by private companies with
PATHfunds. GTZ will finance surveying activities for the entire Rio Platano area, as
well as regularization activities (both to be carried out by private companies), usingthe
methodology developed by the PATHproject.

The PCU will coordinate with the EUinthe department of Colon, where the EUi s
financing activities for the modernizationof the registry, andurban area surveys
(implemented by private companies). The IADB will finance surveying activities in
forestry areas inthe department of Atlantida (implemented by private companies). In



                                               46

areas that are not part of the project, the PCUwill coordinate with donors to ensure that
their activities will be carried out usingthe methodology developed by the PATHproject.
For instance, inthe Olancho department the PCU will coordinate with CIDA, who will
finance aerial photography and surveying activities; and with the IADB,who will finance
surveying activities inforest areas (all to be implemented by private companies). Inthe
Ocotepeque and Intibuca departments, the PCU will coordinate with the EU, who i s
financing activities for the modernizationof the registry, and urban area surveys
(implemented by private companies). It i s expected that implementation agreements will
be signed with the other donors to ensure that PATHproject methodologies are used.




                                              47

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                     HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

Implementing Entities

The Ministry of Governance and Justice will be the overall implementing entity and a
Project CoordinationUnit (PCU) has been established to coordinate all activities under
this program. This PCUwill also manage aproposed IDA financed project implemented
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Forest and Rural Productivity project), due
to the experience this PCUhas gained as well as under an effort to consolidate and
harmonize various project units within the Government of Honduras.

Regarding the financial management arrangements, the PCUhas appointed a qualified
accountant and budget officer (who are currently working inIDA financed projects
implementedby the same PCU), to oversee all aspects of financial management for the
project. The PCUhas successfully managed IDA financed Rural Land Management
Project (PAAR), and it i s expected that the project management arrangement assessedfor
the proposedproject will continue. However, the existing staff contracts are managed b y
UNDP, not the Government of Honduras ( GOH). There is uncertainty as to the status of
the contracts if the PCU i s formally made an institution within the GOH, following the
rules and regulations (including salary and wage levels) of government employees and
civil servants.

FundsFlow

Procedures for flow of funds from the credit and the required counterpart contribution
will be implemented with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and ensuring
timely execution of payments.

Credit funds will be disbursed to the Special Account inUS dollars that SEFINwill
establish at the Central Bank for the purposes of the implementationarrangements
agreed. The authorized allocation i s estimated inU$2.5 million.

Payments and operation of bank accounts. Before payments for acquisition o f goods and
services can be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. The project will
reconcile (monthly) the project account and submit the documentationto IDA under each
withdrawal application (Statement o f Expenditure) and will include such reconciliation in
the quarterly FinancialMonitoringReport (FMR).

UNDPhadmanaged an account for the PCUunder the PAAR project. However, at
negotiations, the agreement reached with theGOH i s that the PCU will open a Special
Account and administer IDA funds, maintaining all records and establishing a 30-day
cycle for disbursements and cash flow programming, and the Special Account will be
managed by the PCU. No additional advance will be made b y the Bank to the
Procurement Agent under this project. Any contracts that may be managed/administered




                                             48

by the Agent, the PCUwill advance funds from the Special Account to the Agent for
payment execution, so that all funds are reconciled to a single account.

The GOHwill allocate its counterpart funding into an operational project account at the
Central Bank, based on budget estimates submitted by the PCU/SAG. The operational
project account will be under the management and responsibility of the PCU. Bank
account reconciliation will be prepared on a monthly basis b y the Accountant and will be
available within 8 days after the end of the month. This i s the current practice of the
PCUand these arrangements havebeen found to be acceptable to IDA.

Under this project, there will be several other co-implementing agencies, however there
will be no transfer of funds to these agencies, All payments will be executed directly by
the PCU. These agencies will be required to enter into a participation agreement with the
PCU.

Disbursements will be transaction-based and will be made on the basis o f Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), and the preparation of SOEs will be the responsibility of the PCU
with clearance o f SEFIN.

Accountinn Policies and Procedures

Administrative procedures will be inplace to ensure that financial transactions are made
with consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry inthe
accounting/monitoring systems. The project already has a working draft o f the
operations manual, which i s inthe process of being finalized. The project accounting
system has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the
project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
IDA'sfiduciary requirements. The accounting system is designed to be able to capture all
financial information and allocate among both categories (IDA's legal/disbursement
categories and GOH Budget categories/expenditure object) and project activity.

The project will also submit detailed monthly statements of expenditures to the office o f
Finance and Accounts and to SEFI"s      Directorate of Public Credit in order that the
project's expenditures are recorded on the Ministry's accounts.

Segregation of duties. The PCU has a clear organizational structure and procedures
established under the PAAR project. Said procedures support an adequate segregation of
procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities, and this was observed within
the PCU duringthe appraisal mission. All detailed procedures are contained inthe
operational manual for the project.

Budgeting. The Credit agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputs for the
project budgets and counterpart (GOH) funding estimates. The PCUwill follow
prescribed IDA disbursement category and governmentalbudgetary heads, and the PCU
will prepare at least:




                                             49

            The annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/objectives, physical
            and financial programs;
            the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds, the summarized and
            detailed expenditures by major areas, accounts, and specific objects;
            the budget execution program broken down monthly, and the quarterly
            document of budgetary commitment authorization;
            the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 15 days after
            the end of each month; and
            the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within
            15 days after the end of the quarter.

Bank account reconciliation will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and
will be available within 8 days after the end of the month.

Accounting

Accounting and budgetary records will be maintainedin accordance with the GOH's
procedures, which i s satisfactory to IDA. However, for IDA monitoring purposes the
PCUwill report on detailed information at the project level, and the expenditures
classified by activity / subcomponent and disbursement category.

The PCUmaintains and manages an integratedmanagement information system, that was
developed under the PAARproject. This system i s predicated on the project and
procurement plans and these are linked (and updated) to the budget of the project. There
are elaborate levels o f controls to approve budget transfers/allocations for execution
under the procurement plan. These controls include a 3-person Committee to review all
transfer/allocationproposals.

The accounting records are maintained electronically, and are reconciled with budget and
procurement reports on a monthly basis. Expenditure reports are further analyzed by
project component and cash flow analyses are conductedboth on an ex-post basis
(analyzing weekly spending for the prior month) as well as on a forecast basis for the
upcoming month.

The PCUwill manage all recording and management of accountingtransactions and
coordinate monthly closings and reconciliation.

Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be inthe custody of the
respective institutional departments. For the proposedproject, the PCU will keep detailed
subsidiaryrecords of plant and equipment acquired. The amounts inthis register will be
reconciled monthly against the respective accounting balances. At least one annual
physical inspection will be undertaken by PCU staff, preferably with the participation of
staff from the external auditors.




                                              50

Audit arrangements

Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORS)both acceptable to IDA. Inaddition to the audit opinions on project financial
statements, the Administrator's Account and FMRs, special purpose reports will be
requiredto deal specifically with the observance of the procurement and consultants
services provisions of the Credit Agreement. The memorandum on internal controls
("management letter") will be issued annually.

The PCU agreed to appoint the auditors (for boththe annual and special audits) by Credit
effectiveness, under a multi-year contract. The audit would then follow the provisions of
Section 4.01 (b) (ii)of the Credit Agreement (January 1st through December 31st o f each
year), with the audit report due no later than 4 months after the end of the fiscal year..

The PCUwill prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and
recommendations contained inthe audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities
would be communicatedto IDA.

Under the new IDA Audit Policy, it i s recommended that the audit TOR be drafted in
such manner that it would include both new projects (including the proposed Forest and
Rural Productivity project) since the same PCU, control structure andbase of information
would be usedto produce financial reports, and would be subjected to the same
iildependent review. The new Audit policy explicitly allows for a consolidation of
reports, and with specific annexes (financial statement and administrator account
schedule) for each project, a single management letter and audit report would meet IDA'S
audit requirements.

Reporting; and Monitoring

On a monthly basis (at least), the PCUwill prepare the project's Statement of
Expenditure, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by
financing source and disbursement category. The expenditures would be compared to the
projected figures per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated inthe Budgeting section
above. This report i s submitted to SEFI"s Directorate of Public Credit.

Inaddition to the FMRs,the monthly financial reports will include the Administrator's
Account Reconciliation Statements. Any difference inthe amount o f expenditures
reportedunder the two financial statements mustbe clearly explained. The project
financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections o f the
FMRs,will be submittedto IDA on a quarterly basis, andwill be submitted no later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the FMRshave been
discussed, and the formats of the reports will be finalized by Credit negotiations.




                                             51

 RiskAnalvsis




                                                                         Gand appointment of




  ImplementingEntity                  Negligible      Clear segregationof duties within
                                                      financial managementfunctions and
                                                      betweenprocurement anddisbursements.
  FundsFlow: counterpartfunds         Moderate        Approval of budget unitsprior to
                                                      commencement of fiscal year.
                                    !

  Staffing                                            Staff contracts are with UNDP, not with I
                                                      GOH                                     i

1                                    1             I
  External Audit                      Negligible      Appointment of auditors before
                                                      effectivenessthrough extensionof
                                                      existing contract
  Reporting and Monitoring           INegligible   IIIBanksupportto generationof flexible
                                                   I  draft F M R s prior-to effectiveness   Ii
 Strengthsand Weaknesses

 The PCU has an adequate financial management system. However, its contributions to
 the project's implementation and monitoring will be ineffect when the updated
 procedures, controls and systems are under the organizational arrangements described
 previously are finalized, and arrangements for producing certain information relevant to
 IDA are inplace. The Action Plan (below) aims at addressing these issues.

 Financial Management Action Plan

  Action                         Responsible Entity               Completion Date
  1.Finalize financial           PCU                              completed
  management section of the
  OperationalManual
  2. Appoint the external        PCU                              Before effectiveness -
  auditors                                                        extension o f contract
  3. Submit draft Project        PCU                              pending
  Monitoring Reports (FMRs).



                                             52

4. Submit first FMRs             PCU                          45 days after the end of the
                                                              quarterinwhich
                                                              effectiveness takes place



                               Allocation of Credit Proceeds

   Expenditure Category           Amount inUS$ million           Financing Percentage
1.Works                                       1.9                           88%

2. Goods                                      2.6             100% foreign expenditures/
                                                                   88% local expenditures

3. Consultant Services                        9.4                          98%

4. Training                                   1.5                         100%

5. Technical Services                         4.9                           88%

6. Operating Costs                            1.7                    88% up to 1.0US$M
                                                                     60% up to 1.5 US$M
                                                                           40% thereafter

7. Publicity and                              0.5                           88%
Dissemination Costs

8. PPF                                        2.0                         100%

9. Unallocated                                0.5

         Total Project Costs                 25.0
Interest during construction                  -
              Front-end Fee                   -
                       Total                 25.0


Retroactive Financing

        IDAwill finance expenditures incurred after July 16,2003. The amount of the
retroactive financing i s estimated inUS$1.5 million and will not exceed 10percent of the
total credit amount. This will allow Government to carry out some preliminary activities
for field work, involving some consultation events, consultancies and related operating
costs, which are essentialfor timely implementation of subsequenttasks inthe systematic
cadastralprocess.



                                             53

                                 Annex 8: Procurement
                     HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

A) Procurement Arrangements

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under ZBRD Loans and IDA Credits",published in
January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published inJanuary 1997 (revised in September 1999, January 1999 and May 2002), and
the provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement.


1) Procurementmethods: The methods to beusedfor the procurementdescribed
below, andthe estimated amounts for each method, are summarized inTable A. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed inTable B.

       Procurementof Works

       Works procured under this project would include rehabilitation and remodeling of
       various office buildings invarious locations throughout the project areas and
       aerial photography and mapping work totaling US$3.2 million equivalent. Even
       though no single contract will be of big enough amount to call for International
       Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures, some of these contracts will be procured
       following ICB because of the lack of specialized expertise inthe country. IDA-
       issued Standard BiddingDocuments will be used. Other contracts estimated to
       cost less than US$1.5 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
       of US$1.6 million may be procured usingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB)
       procedures, using standard biddingdocuments agreed in advance with IDA.
       Small works, estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, up
       to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 may be procured on the basis of at least
       three quotations received inresponse to a written invitation, which will include a
       detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
       completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, andrelevant
       drawings, where applicable.

       Procurementof Goods

       Goods procured under this project would include purchase of vehicles, computer
       and office equipment, specialized software, geodesic equipment, office furniture
       and publications totaling US$4.1 million equivalent. To the extent possible,
       contracts for these goods will be grouped into biddingpackages of more than
       $150,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures, usingIDA-issued
       standard biddingdocuments. Contracts with estimated values below this
       threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount o f US$500,000 may be
       procured usingNCB procedures and standard biddingdocuments agreed with



                                            54

IDA. Contracts for goods which cannot be groupedinto largerbiddingpackages
and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$500,000 may be procured usingshopping (National /International)
procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to IDA.
Specialized software and some computer equipment identified duringpreparation
of the project may be procureddirectly from the suppliers inview of the need to
assure compatibility with equipment previously purchased under the RuralLand
Management project and to facilitate maintenance and training. This equipment i s
estimated to cost approximately US$400,000. Any direct contracting would be
subject to IDA'Sreview and non objection.

Procurement of Technical Services

Technical services procuredunder this project would include cadastral surveys
and inquiries, legal, social and other technical services required for land
demarcation and land regularization totaling US$10.9 million equivalent. To the
extent possible, contracts for these services will be grouped into biddingpackages
of more than $1,500,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures,
usingthe biddingdocument for technical services prepared by IDA and included
inthe Operational Manualfor the project. Contracts with estimated values below
this thresholdper contract andupto an aggregate amount of US$3,900,000 may
be procured usingNCB procedures and standard biddingdocuments agreed with
IDA. Contracts for technical services which cannot be groupedinto larger
biddingpackages and estimated to cost less than US$150,000 per contract, upto
an aggregate amount of US$200,000 may be procuredusing shopping (National
/International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to
IDA. Direct contracting for amaximumamount of US$65,000 may be
considered for cadastral validation services that are competence o f the Direccion
Nacional de Catastro (DEC).

Selection of Consultants

Consulting services will be contracted under this project for technical assistance,
studies and capacity buildingto develop a broad regulatory and institutional
reform, for specific technical issues related to security of land tenure and title
regularization, and for the establishment of an integratedregistry and cadastre
information system at the department level. These services are estimated to cost
US$l5.0 million equivalent and would be procuredusing IDA StandardRequest
for Proposals.

Firms

All contracts for firms would beprocuredusingQCBS except for small and
simple assignments that can be precisely defined and are of a standardor routine
nature (such as auditing) and contracts are estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or less which would be procured using Least Cost up to an aggregate



                                      55

      amount of US$200,000 or when the assignment i s very smallfor which the need
      for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals i s notjustified and contracts
      are estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or less they would be procured based on

      Individuals

      Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants
      selected by comparison o f qualifications of three candidates andhired in
      accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
      Guidelines. Individual consultants also include technical and administrative staff
      for long-term assignments across the PCU, up to an aggregate amount of US$13.1
      million. The project would renew existing contracts with technical and
      administrative staff currently financed by the PAAR project inthe total amount of
      US$2.5 million. The majority of this staff was hired following competitive
      selection procedures based on short-lists and evaluation of qualifications.
      Contracts would be renewedfor one year and further renewals would be subject
      to submission of performance reviews reports that will require IDA'Snon
      objection. Due to the significant number of individual consultants that will be
      hired inthe project, approximately 320, the GOHwas asked to prepare a
      transition plan with details of how these consultants would absorbed over the 4-
      year implementation period of the project by the civil service or the private sector.
      Duringnegotiations, the transition planwas discussed andfound acceptable.

      OperationalCosts: Sundry items, operationand maintenance of vehicles and
      equipment, insurance o f equipment, travel and per diem of PCU staff and
      executing agencies staff working for the project, travel and per diem for round
      tables, per diem for steering committee, support staff for PCU, office rental,
      utilities and communication expenses would be financed on a declining basis and
      would be procured usingthe PCU's administrative procedures which were
      reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.

      Training.would consist of workshops, seminars, consultationmeetings, study
      tours for staff of participating agencies working inproject activities. IDA would
      finance travel, subsistence and per diem to trainer and trainees, registration fees,
      logistic expenses for organization of training events, and training materials.

      Promotionand disseminationcostsfor advertisement andpublicity inradio, TV
      and written press would also be financed under the credit.

2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized
inTable B. Inaddition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan
and budget for the PCU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by IDA
annually.

B) Assessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement



                                            56

An assessmentof the capacity of PCUto implement the procurementactions under the
post review threshold for the project has been carried out and was approved by the
Regional Procurement Advisor on December 8,2003.

The project will be coordinated by a small PCUwithin the Ministry of Governance and
Justice. This PCU was previously established to coordinate project activities under the
first, ongoing Land Administration project and it counted with the support of UNDPfor
procurement and financial management and will continue under the same arrangement.
The PCU will also coordinate implementation of other IDA-financed projects including
the upcoming Forestry and Rural Productivity project and the Natural Disasters
Management project.

A Procurement Agent, i.e. UNDP,will behiredfor handling all ICB andinternational
consultants and provide procurement advisory services and training to the PCU. The
Procurement Agent will be incharge of preparing all biddingdocuments, carrying out
bidopenings and selecting and contractingconsultant services for all contracts above
prior review threshold. The PCUwill carry out all shoppingprocedures, all NCBs
(except the first two), all selection of individual consultants under US$50,000 and
selection of consulting firms under US$lOO,OOO. Since the PCUhas had extensive
experience on carrying out shopping procedures, the threshold for shopping has been
raisedto US$50,000. The PCUhas one procurement officer and one assistant. Due to
the bigger work load with administration of one other project, the PCUwill hire another
experienced, senior procurement officer with a strong technical background. The
technical staff of the PCUwill be responsible for the quality of technical documents and
products delivered by consultants, or physical inputs financed under the project, as a
result of any contracting done by the Procurement Agent on its behalf. The existing
structure, considering the additional procurement officer to be hired for the project, i s
considered satisfactory.

Duringnegotiations, TORSfor hiringa Procurement Agent andproposal and draft
contract with UNDPwere reviewed and found acceptable. Final draft contract will be
submitted to IDA for review before its signing.

The Operations Manual for the project will clearly specify all duties and responsibilities
of all institutions involved inthe implementation of the project and will include, in
addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard BiddingDocuments to be used for
each procurement method, model contracts for goods procured on the basis of three
quotations or shopping, as well as the biddingdocuments for technical services prepared
by IDA.

The risksidentified inthe assessment i s that UNDP's performance has not been entirely
satisfactory during implementation of the first LandAdministration project. Bidding
documents hadto be sent back often for corrections which represents delays inthe
implementation of the project. To mitigate this risk, the project coordinator will include
inthe agreement with the Procurement Agent amechanismto assurequality control of



                                              57

all procurement activities carried out by the Administrator. If UNDPi s selected,
UNDP's performance should bereevaluatedby IDA after the first six months of project
implementation and if it i s found not satisfactory new arrangements for procurement
administration should be sought. Either the Ministry should find another procurement
 agency or concentrate efforts to strengthen the capacity at the PCU. The Association
would carry out a full assessment of a new proposed Procurement Agent before such
hiringis concluded.

The overall project risk for procurement i s considered AVERAGE.

C) Procurement Plan

  The Borrower has developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
  provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table
  A). This plan was approvedby the RPA andis inthe project files. At the beginning of
  each calendar year, the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed
  procurement schedule for the coming year.

  D) Frequencv of ProcurementSupervision

  In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from IDA offices, the
  capacity assessment of the PCUhas recommended one full supervision mission to visit
  the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk
  assessment (AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample o f not
  less than 1in 10contracts signed.

           Annex 8, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements


    ExpenditureCategory                        ProcurementMethod                     Total Cost
                                     ICB         NCB         Other     N.B.F




                                                              (2.2)                    (2.2)
7. PublicityandDissemination                                   0.6 fl                   0.6
                                                              (0.5)                    (0.5)
   Total                             10.5         5.1         23.3                     38.9
                                     (5.7)       (3.2)       (16.1)                   (25.0)



                                            58

Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financed by IDA credit
 a/ Three quotations (Le., smallworks procuredunder lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basisof
 quotations obtained from three (3) qualifieddomestic contractorsin responseto awritten invitation.
 b/ Shopping anddirectpurchaseof specializedsoftware andequipment inthe amountof US$400,000
 c/ Consultingfirms and individual consultants, includinglong-termconsultants for PCU andtechnicalunit.
 d Technicalservicesfor field andcadastralsurvey anddemarcationwouldbecontractedmainlythroughICBand
    NCB. The "other" columnincludes direct contractingfor DEC cadastralservicesinthe amount of US$65,000.
 e/ Logistics,travelexpenses, per-diems, registrationfees, materials
 f/ Expenses for advertisement to be paiddirectly to radio, tv andwritten press.




                                                       59

                       Annex 8, Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements
                                           (inUS$millioneauivalent)
     Consultant                                         SelectionMethod                                    Total Cost
       Services                                                                                            (including
    Expenditure                                                                                           contingencies)
      Category
                       QCBS       I   QBS      I   SFB      I  LCS      I
                                                                        ,   CQ       ! Other     IN.B.F.
  A. Firms                1.8          0             0          0.1          0          0                      1.9
                         (1.2)        (0)          (0)         (0.1)        (0)        (0)                    (1.3)
  B. Individuals                                                                       13.1a/                 13.1
                                                                                       (9.7)                  (9.7)
              Total       1.8          0             0          0.1          0         13.1                   15.0
                         (1.2)        (0)          (0)         (0.1)        (0)        (9.7)                 (11.0)

       Note:   QCBS = Quality- andCost-BasedSelection
               QBS = Quality-basedSelection
               SFB = Selectionunder aFixedBudget
               LCS = Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = SelectionBasedonConsultants'Qualifications
               Other = Selectionof individual consultants(per SectionV of ConsultantsGuidelines)
       N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.Figuresinparenthesisare the amountsto be financed by IDA credit.

       a/ Include PCUlong-term consultants.




                                US $ thousands
1. Works
                                   >1,500                             ICB
                                  >150 < 1,500                       NCB               First2 contracts
                             < or = 150                        Three Ouotations
2. Goods
                                  >150                                ICB
                                    >50 < 150                        NCB               First2 contracts
                              <or=50                                Shopping
                                                               Direct contracting
3. Consultants
Firms                             >loo                               QCBS
                             <or = 100                         QCBS, LCS, and
                                                                  Consultants'
                                                                 Qualifications
Individuals                         > 50                       See Section V of
                                                                   Guidelines
                                    >30< 50                    See Section V of         Review of TOR only
                                                                   Guidelines
                              <or=30                           See Section V of         None (Post Review)
                                                                   Guidelines
4. Technical Services
                                   >1,500                             ICB               All
                                  >150 < 1,500                       NCB                First2 contracts
                             < or = 150                        Three Quotations         First2 contracts




                                                        60

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:

                       H
            High       0
            Low
            Average

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:One every
12month(s) (includes special procurement supervisionfor post-review)
reviewing a sample of 1in 10contracts signed.




                                  61

                        Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                      HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram



                 Flow                           Net Present Value of Flows
                 ExpectedBenefits                    US$ 130.69 million

                 ExpectedCosts of Land               US$ 24.79 million
                 Regularization
                Net Benefits                         US$ 105.90 million
                 lRR                                         44%

I.costs

The economic analysis is based on the costs and benefits of project activities relatedto
land regularization. The costs used inthe economic analysis therefore, are those costs
which bear directly on land regularization and the functioning of the land registration
system. Restricting costs for the analysis to those directly associated with regularization
helps make the comparison with other countries. This includes the area-based systematic
land regularization, titling and registration component, the development of technological
platforms, and the contingencies associated with each activity. As shown inAnnex 5 on
Project Costs, these costs with contingencies total US$ 32.3 million, o f which US$ 22.7
million are for area-based systematic land regularization, titling and registration and US$
9.6 million are for the development of technological platforms for the registry system.
Treated as a flow over the first four years of the project, these costs have a net present
value (NPV) of US$ 24.79 million.

11. EconomicBenefits:UsingPropertyValueIncreasesto EstimateBenefits

Benefits are estimated infour dimensions: a) direct economic benefits; b) indirect
administrative savings; c) financial and fiscal benefits and d) environmental benefits.
This annex discusses each of these types of benefits. For evaluating the cost-benefit
ratio of the project only direct economic benefits are used. Direct economic benefits are
expected from the increased value of immovable properties attributable to regularization
of tenure.

Increased property value due to regularization i s a summaryindicator of the capitalized
value of three major types of benefits associated with land regularization: improved
investment and environmental conservation incentives, marketability, and ability to use
the land as collateral for loans. Estimating the magnitudes of these expectedincreases i s
a complex problem for a national program involving a heterogeneous set o f properties.
Property values are influencedby a wide range of factors-location,       access to public
services, size, value of construction, use of the property-each    of which interacts with
tenure status. Controlling for these factors, the difference in value between similar
regularized and unregularized properties i s a good indicator of the economic benefit of


                                              62

 regularization. Efforts at land regularizationinHonduras benefit from the two decade
 long effort to make land titles widely available and the substantial body of evaluation of
 the costs and impacts o f projects, particularly the Programa de Titulacio'n de Tierras.
 New data collected in September 2003, which i s only beginning to be analyzed, creates a
 baseline set of owner-defined property values and property characteristics, which can be
 used to measure the expected magnitudes of the economic impact of titling.

 Estimates o f the direct economic benefit are derived intwo steps. First, the number o f
 properties which will be directly affected by regularization i s identified and
 disaggregated by type of location and value (urban or rural). And second, estimate of the
 additional value increment associated with regularization of tenure for each type o f
 property i s estimated, based on empirical examination of properties which have been
 regularized previously. Estimating these magnitudes to a highdegree of accuracy is
 statistically sensitive. Usinga national sample of urban and rural properties collected in
 2003, plausible estimates for these values are made. The simple models of land price,
 however, are sensitive to selection bias, unobserved variables and regional differences, so
 the estimates for regularization mustbe interpreted as sensitive to the specification. This
 stream of the direct benefits can then be discounted to calculate the net present value and
 an internal rate of return. Sections 1-2of this annex summarizes this estimation process,
 Section 3 uses the results to aggregate benefits inthe project. Section 4 estimates net
 present values o f these flows and the rate o f return. Section 5 estimates the reduction in
 registration costs. Section 6 presents a summary of fiscal impacts and Section 7
 discusses the environmental impact of the project.

 1.Number of properties affected

 The number of properties expected to be directly affectedby value-enhancing
 regularization improvements inthe project i s 521,500 out of an estimated 745,000
 properties expected to be covered inthe regularization effort as shown inTable 1.




I                            I             I                1  rezularized I                I
 With escriturapublica or




                                               63

InHondurasprevious studies have shownthat country-wide, approximately 67 percent of
properties are urban, and 33 percent are rural. Using this proportion the estimated
number of urbanproperties affected by regularization improvementsunder PATHwould
be about 394,000 and the number of rural properties about 127,500.

2. Value of Properties to be Regularized and ValueAddedfrom Regularization

2.1. Urban housingproperties

Owner-definedprice of residentialproperties i s included the CEDAC sample (data
collected September 2003). The premium for land regularization can be interpreted from
estimating a models (P=f(x)+e where x i s a set of explanatory variables) of the
residential property price that partially controls for the other factors that make property
prices differ such as location, access to services, and length of tenure. A dummy variable
for property registrationi s introduced into the estimation to measure the additional
predicted value of registration overall all other types of tenure. About 70 percent o f the
properties inthe national sample are registered. Inthis specification f(x) i s a function of
parcel size, cost of improvements, length of occupation, pavedroad (proxy for locational
characteristics), infrastructureuse, possession of private telephone (as a proxy for a range
of services), and registration. The distributionof the sample i s heavily weighted to the
lower end, with 75 percent of properties having a value less than L.200,OOO. ($11,111).
For this reason the model i s estimated first for this subset of the sample, and then for the
subset with values from L.200,OOO-500,000 ($11,111-$27,778), to give distinct estimates
on the value of registration ineach cohort.

              Model 1: UrbanHousing up to 200,000 Lps ($11,111)in Price

                                        Descriptive Statistics

                                           Mean            Std. Deviation        N
                   PrecioPropiedad        86,533.94         55,082.66         1076
                  TamafioPropiedad        584.0408          1341.74968        1076
                   TelefonoPrivado           .36                .481          1076
                     TiempoAAos            14.84               10.97          1076
                    lnfraestructura          .30                .458          1076
                                                         I
                   EscrituraPublica          .62                .485          1076
                     CostoMejoras         19,139.70         $38,373.81        1076
                      Pavimento              .31                 .46          1076




                  Model         R     R Square      Square        the Estimate
                    1        .399(a)    .159          .153       $50,680.1866
                                                                      392
                aPred%torsr(Constant)T Pavimento, Infraestructura, EscrituraPublica,
                   TamaAoPropiedad, CostoMejoras, TiempoAfios, TelefonoPrivado




                                               64

 I                                                              Standardi
                                                                   zed
                                        Unstandardized          Coefficien
 Model                                    Coe zients                 ts            t       Sig.

            I                          B          Std. Error      Beta
 1            (Constant)             50026.43       3624.041                       13.804    .ooo
             TamaAoPropiedad               .95            1.16         .023          .822    .411
             TelefonoPrivado          8575.58         3499.90          .075        2.450     .014
             TiempoAAos                599.74          148.01          .I19        4.052     .QOO
              lnfraestructura        32827.65         3409.69          .273        9.628     .ooo
              EscrituraPublica       17353.92         3358.02          .I53        5.168     .ooo
             CostoMejoras                  .22            .042         .I58        5.352     .ooo
             Pavimento               -3264.65         3581.94         -.027         -.911    ,362
a Dependent Variable: PrecioProp   lad


This model provides an estimate of an additional value of 17,354 Lps ($964) for property
registration inproperties with an average value of 86,533 ($4807). This cohort
comprises about 75 percent of the sample.

          Model 2. Urban Housingfrom 200,000-500,000Lps ($11,II1-27,778)

                                     Descriptive Statistics

                                Mean                     Std. Deviation                N
  PrecioPropiedad            320,488.57                    99,978.85                  429
 TamaAoPropiedad               497.00                       689.22                    429
  TelefonoPrivado                .66                          .47                     429
    TiempoAAos                  20.05                        11.69                    429
   lnfraestructura               5 8                          .49                     429
  EscrituraPublica               -86                          .34                     429
   CostoMejoras               40.953.89                    68.539.86                  429




                                                      Adjusted R      Std. Error of
                   Model        R       R Square        Square       the Estimate
                      1       .330(a)       .lo9          .096      $95,057.0840
                                                                          080




                                                  65

                                         Coefficients(a)
 I
 t                                 Unstandardized       Standardized
 Model                         ICoefficients
                                    Coefficients                         t          Sig.


         I                         B       Std. Error      Beta
 1        (Constant)           233100.43    17375.70                    13.415        .ooo
          TamaAoPropiedad           6.86         7.03            .047      .975       .330
          TelefonoPrivado       330015 6     9879.19             .157     3.341       .001
          TiempoAAos              866.79       467.93            .lo1     1.852       .065
          Infraestructura        13417.55    9776.99             .066     1.372       .171
          EscrituraPublica      24044.54    13696.72             .083     1.755       .080
          CostoMejoras               .40         .080            .274     5.001       .ooo
a Dependent Variable: PrecioPropiedad


This estimation predicts an additional value of 24,044 Lps.($1,335) for registered
properties among this cohort with an average value of ($17,804). This cohort i s
approximately 25% of properties inthe sample.


2.2. Ruralproperties

Establishingthe relationship of regularized land with property value inthe rural context
beginswith the observation of expected positive correlationbetween an indicator of
regularized land tenure and total property value including the value of improvements
("escritura publica" signifies that the property i s registered inthe Registro de Propied
Inmueble).

 Puttingthese relationships into abasic linear model of property value: (P=f(Size,
Improvements, Tenure Status,)+e), estimations of the magnitude of land tenure status
differences can be estimated for a subsets of rural data taken from the CEDAC database.
It is important to notice that the majority of these ruralproperties are very small, with
60% possessing less than 100,000 Lps. ($5,556) in property value and more than half
with less than 0.5 hectares of land. Inthis group only 29 percent have the property
registered. Fully 96 percent of the properties are under L.1,000,000. in value ($55,556).
With the highconcentration inthe distributioninthe first decile, estimation of the
premium for registration inthis group separately will provide more accurate results. For
this reason the data are segmented and estimations are made for two different sets of rural
properties, those with L.0-100,000 ($0-5,556) inproperty value, and those with 100,000-
L.l,OOO,OOO.  ($5,556-$55,556) inproperty value. Inthis group 48 percent have the
property registered. The reduced form property value function i s estimated at the
following linear equation:

    Pi=a+B 1(Size)+B2(Value of Improvements)+B3(Dummy for Escritura Publica)+e.

The first model estimated for the cohort of L.0-100,000 (0-$5,556).




                                                66

Model 1provides an estimate of the value of property registration of L.6500 ($361) for
rural properties inthis cohort with an average value of L.44,652 ($2481).

              Rural Model 1. Properties with 0-100,000Lps. Property Value

                                   Descriptive Statistics



                    Valor Total



                  Escritura Pliblica

                                           Model Summary

               ~


                                                       Adjusted R   Std. Error of
                  Model         R        R Square       Square      the Estimate
                   1        .633(a)         .401          .395      21142.15945




                                   Unstandardized          Standardized
                                     Coefficients          Coefficients

 Model                              3        Std. Error        Beta             t       Sig.
 1            (Constant)        26049.10      1822.080                         14.296     .ooo
              Valor
              Mejoras                1.07         .074              .625       14.429      ,000

              TamaAo               208.04      142.483              .063         1.460     .145
              Escritura
              Publica             6500.83     2596.033              .lo9        2.504      .013



Rural Model 2. Properties 100,000-500,000Lps value

Rural Model 2 i s estimated for properties with values from L.100,OOO to L.500,OOO.
(($5,556-$27,778) which reaches the 94thpercentile of all properties inthe sample.

Model 2 thus predicts an additional property value attributable to registration o f L.31,202
Lps. ($1,733) for properties inthis cohort with average values of L.216,504 ($12,028).




                                                   67

                                         Descriptive Statistics

                                          Mean         Std. Deviation        N
                        Valor Total     216504.80    11  98697.07            209
                    Escritura Publica       .46             .49       III    209
                      Valor Mejoras     92483.27         74283.63            209
                         TamaRo            3.17            15.70             209




                    Model         R        R Square       Square         the Estimate
                       1        .500(a)       .250          .239         86073.39303




                                               Coefficients(a)
I             I                I     Unstandardized       I  Standardized    1            I
I                                                                                                   3
                                       Coefl :ients          Coefficients
                               I
     Model                            B        Std. Error        Beta               t       Sig.
      1           (Constant)     142919.30     11050.57                          12.93      .ooo
                   Escritura      31202.75
                   Publica                     11955.92          .158             2.61      .010
                     Valor
                   Mejoras           .60          .08            .455             7.48      .ooo
                   Tamah          1018.09       381.94           ,162             2.66      .008
a Dependent Variable: Valor Total

3. AggregatingAdditional Valuefrom Registration

This set of estimations provides realistic parameters to turn to the step of aggregating the
estimated economic benefits. They are similar to results of price changes due to land
titling inthe PTT e~aluation.~       This aggregation makes the assumption that as
unregularizedproperties are regularized, they will gain invalue over a period of twenty
years to levels equivalent to those of currently registered properties. Usingthis
assumption the estimated values of additional value are assigned to the properties to be
regularized under the project. The following table shows the calculation for net
economic benefit usingthe number of urban properties expected to be regularized, and
the number of rural properties. These distribution of the value of these unregularized
properties i s assumed to be found approximately the same as inthe national sample. This
yields an expected total premiumor net benefit o f regularization.




 See Stanfield, J.D. et.al. "The HondurasLandTitling and RegistrationExperience," LandTenureCenter,
Universityof Wisconsin-Madison,June 1990.


                                                     68

Calculation for net economic benefit

   Type of property         Estimatedproperty        No. of Properties    Estimated Total
                             value premium of                                  Benefit of
                                 registration                              Regularization
Residential e 200,000                $964              295,500 (75%)         $284,862,000
          Lps.
Residential > 200,000               $1,335             98,500 (25%)          $131,497,500




Puttingtogether bothurban and rural land value increases from regularization inthe first
phase of PATHyields an estimate of total economic benefit as of approximately
US$532.4 million. This amount i s treated as accruing evenly over a twenty-year period
after the completion of the first phase of titling because of the assumption of a long lag in
the adjustment of property value to improved tenure status. Using a discountrate o f 11.5
percent, this yields a net present value of economic benefits of $130.69 million. It
signifies an internal rate of return of 44 percent on the investment. This i s higher than
most land projects. The Thailand Land Titling Project, for example, was shown to have
an ex post rate of return of 34 percent. The land titling program for rural areas in
Honduras inthe 1980s was shown to have a rate of return of 17 percent, based only on
productivity improvements. The rate of return i s plausible given the largely urban
character o f the project, but the issues raised inthe estimations show how important
conducting further detailed analysis of land price, ideally with a panel data set, will be to
accurately measure the project's impact.

4. Net Present Valueof Benefits and Costsand SensitivityAnalysis

For purposes of calculating NPV of Benefits and Costs, only the direct economic benefits
are used. The direct benefits from land price increase of $534 million are assumed to
accrue as an annuity over the course of twenty years due to the lag inlandvalue change.
These economic impact i s fairly robust to changes inthe assumptions about landprice.
Decreasing the benefit by 50% still results in a profitable project NPV of $40.56 with
returns (IRR of 27%) well above the opportunity costs of capital (11.5 percent).




                                               69

Sensitivity analysiswith a decreaseinbenefitsby 50%

 Year              costs            Benefits          Net Benefits          Benefits
                                                                         Decrease by
                                                                              50%
     1             8.075                0               -8.075              -8.075
     2             8.075                0               -8.075              -8.075
     3             8.075                0               -8.075              -8.075
     4             8.075                0               -8.075              -8.075
  5 to 24            0                26.2               26.2                 13.1
    NPV           $24.79            $130.69            $105.90              $40.56
    IRR                                                  44%                  27%

5. Reduction in Titling Costs

The second main area of benefits expected from the PATHproject is the reduction of
transaction costs and the consequent savings to the economy from increased efficiency of
service delivery. Because they are intangible, these benefits are not included inthe
benefit-cost analysis. As has been described above, PATH will regularize approximately
521,000 properties of which 394,000 are expected to be urban and 127,000 are expected
to be rural. Costs vary according to the type of transaction involved, and have been
documented b y the Znstituto de Libertud y Democruciu. Without the project, estimates of
titling costs were made by the Znstituto de Libertud y Democraciu. Approximately 30
percent of both urban and rural properties fall into the category of subdivisions, which
have an exceptionally highcost of regularization ($l,093/property), which would be
replaced by a cheaper methodology under PATH. The following table presents current
costs for regularization of urban and rural properties without usingthe streamlined
methods of PAAR or PATH.




Usingsystematic methods and electronic information processing, the Programade
Administracion de Areas Rurales (PAAR) has demonstrated that it can issue titles for
much less than conventional methods, resulting in costs of $8.64 per hectare for rural
properties, and 12.50 per property inurban areas. The PAAR methods will form the
basis for PATH, so the PAAR land regularization costs can reasonably be used as an
indicator of regularization costs under PATH. The reductioninregularization costs


                                             70

versus a scenario of regularizationbased on conventional methods i s presented inthe
following table, indicating a reduction incosts of $186 million versus a counter-factual
scenario o f regularization usingtraditional methods. This cannot be regarded as a direct
savings because without the PATHproject, many of these properties would never be
regularized at the cost of conventionalmethods. Therefore the benefit has to be viewed
as an administrative cost savings which i s an efficiency gain for the country.

              Cost savings from regularization of properties under PATH

Type of Area                 Number of            Cost savings per       Total cost savings
                            properties or            unit versus           (US$ million)
                               hectares             conventional
                                                      methods
Urban                        Properties
                               394,000             $409/property               161.15
Rural                         Hectares
                               995,000              24.86hectare               24.70
        Total                                                                  185.85


6.Financial Analysis

Financial data demonstrate that the project will contribute to increasing the efficiency of
the registration system, improving its already strong financial condition. As Table 8
demonstrates, the institution of the Registros de la PropiedadInmueble y Mercantil
currently generates a surplus from fees collected which i s well above its costs.

                            Income and operating costs of the
                 Registro de la Propiedad Inmuebley Mercantil, 2002
                                (Thousandsof Lempiras)

                Income (Registration           62,353.7
                Stamps)
                costs                          27,248.1
                Surplus                        35,105.6

The project activities are expected to strengthen the system's financial situation from
both cost reductions and revenue increases. The project activities are designed to reduce
the average cost of transaction, currently about $6.21 from increases inprocessing
efficiency. The exact amount of cost reduction i s not clear, These costs will be
monitored under the project usingthe 2002 data as a baseline. Revenues from higher
volumes of transactions at lower costs are expected to strengthen the financial position of
the system and enable it to provide further improvements in services.

Municipalities are also expected to generate revenue increases due to the increase of
regularizedproperties ineach municipaljurisdiction subject to municipal fees and taxes.


                                             71

The magnitudes of these revenues will vary among municipalities. These revenue
streams will also be monitored as part of the PATHactivity to understand their financial
impact and the differences among municipalities.

7. Fiscal Impact

The fiscal impact of PATHi s expected to be strongly favorable for government revenue,
with a net present value of increased public revenue flows conservatively estimated at
$33. 8 million over a period of twenty years.

The fiscal impact i s estimated to come entirely from increased registration fees and stamp
taxes based on an increased number of properties registered inthe formal system and
increased fees. These projections are made inthe following table.

                                   Fiscal Impactof PATH

Fiscal Impact

Current Parameters:
Current no of transactions registeredper year:                                         241000
Average gross revenue per transaction (to registry):                                    $14.22
Average cost per transaction                                                             $6.21
Average net revenue per transaction                                                      $8.01
Stamp Duty to NationalTreasury Average Net Revenue per transaction                      $28.44
Registry Net Revenue+Treasury Net Revenueper transaction                                $36.45
Total Registry Revenue per year:                                               $3,464,111-00
Total Stamp Tax from Registrationper year                                      $6,928,166.00
Total Net Public Revenuefrom Property Registration(2002)                     $10,392,277.00


Additional Revenuefrom Project Parameters

Additionaltransactions per year with project (after 4 years)*                          100000
Net public revenueper additionaltransaction **                                          $72.90
Increasednet annual revenueper year from project (after 4 years)               $7,290,000.00

Net presentvalue of additional net revenuesfrom project***                   $33,827,073.02

SensitivityAnalysis
Additionaltransactions =50,000                               NPV=      $16.91 million
Additional transactions =200000                              NPV=      $82.53 million

*based on 13.3%annual rate of transactions within 750,000 additional properties in the system
**fees are being increased 100%as of November2003
***calculated using20-year time horizon, no benefits for years 14, and discount rate of 11.5 percent




                                                72

Explanation of Fiscal Impact Projections

The number o f transactions registered in the 26 registry offices inHonduras was 241,000
in2002. This number includes all types of transactions, such as recordationof
purchasehale, registration of mortgage or other interests, acts stating that a property i s ree
from liens, and others. Each type of transaction has a specific cost, usually indexedto the
value of the property inquestion. For each transaction the costs i s paidthrough the
purchase o f special registry stamps. In2002 this revenue amounted to $3.43 million.
Costs of the registry system, paid from national budget, amounted to $1.5 million. The
net revenue o f $1.97 million works out to slightly more than $8 per transaction for the
registry system based on 2002 volumes.

The revenue from the sale of registry stamps i s accumulated inthe treasury of the
Supreme Court of Justice. Additionally, each transaction i s charged two times the value
of the registry stamps through countersigned stamps payable to the General Treasury.
This charge resultedinrevenues of $6.93 million in2002. InNovember of 2003, the
charges for all registry transactions are being increased by 100percent for both the
registry and general treasury stamps.

The PATHi s expected to significantly increase the volume of transactions inthe registry
system. Currently only about 30% of the country's estimated 2.6 million properties are in
the system, or a total of about 780,000. Approximately 745,000 properties are locatedin
the project areas. The upgrade of the system through PATH activities i s thus expected to
include another 745,000-750,000 properties inthe system and i s expected that in areas
covered by PATHregistration of transactions will become the normbecause property-
holders will seek to maintain the benefits of regularization. It can be conservatively
estimated therefore, that after the first 4-year phase of PATH, an additional 750,000
properties will be active inthe registry. Taking a conservative estimate, this 750,000
additional properties can be expected to generate an additional 100,000 transactions per
year, based on the current volumes.

The additional 100,000 transactions expected after 4 years will generate approximately
double the average revenue currently generated by the system because of the 100percent
tariff increase in2003, or approximately $72.90 per transaction net of costs. This
average revenue per transaction would thus yield a projected $7.29 million in additional
annual public revenue from registry transactions extrapolating from current rates,
although it i s as yet unclear how strongly the tariff increase will reduce demand for
registry services. Calculation o f the net present value of this revenue stream beginning in
after four years and continuing for fifteen subsequent years, discounted at 11.5 percent
yields a figure of $33.83 million innet public revenue benefits

This way of projecting benefits is a linear function of the number of additional
transactions generated by the project activities and therefore highly sensitive to the
number of additional transactions. Halvingthe assumption of 100,000 additional
transactions per year to 50,000 results inan NPV o f $16.91 million. Doubling the




                                              73

projectednumber of additional transactions to 200,000 results in a NPV of $82.53
million. Ineach scenario the impact for public revenue i s strongly positive.

8. Environmental Impact

The project preparation has not made an attempt to quantify environmental impact from
the project. Previous research on the relationship between titling and an array of soil
management practices in Honduras has shown mixed results with one study indicating a
positive relationship between adoption of certain soil management practices such as
terracing and titling,5and another study finding no discernible effect.
only a qualitative assessmentcan be voiced (see Annex lo), a net positive environmental
                                                                             For these reasons

effect i s expected.




 Childress,Malcolm. 1994,"CapitalInvestmentson Smallholder CoffeeFarms:An EmpiricalStudy from
Honduras." inErnstLutz, Stefan0PagiolaandCarlos Reiche,eds., Economic andInstitutionalAnalysis of
Soil ConservationProiects inCentralAmerica and the Caribbean.The World Bank.;
 Bonnard,PatriciaJ. 1995.LandTenure,LandTitling, andthe Adoptionof ImprovedSoil Management
PracticesinHonduras.


                                                74

                            Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                     HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

The Honduras Land Administration Project (PATH) seeks to establish an integrated and
decentralized land administration system (including area-based systematic title
regularization, surveying, titling, and registration), composed of public and private
entities, that accurately generates, registers, and links information on private and public
land parcels (urban and rural) in the project area in a timely, cost-effective, and widely
accessible manner. The project's objectives involve the strengthening and reform of
Honduran land administration services, to be implemented through an initial phase of
regularization of rural and urban landholdings in the Departments of Cortes, Comayagua,
and Francisco Morazhn (urban only), legal recognition and demarcation of special rural
lands in Gracias a Dios (select indigenous lands), Colon and Atlhntida (select indigenous
lands, protected areas and national forests), as well as limited preparatory activities in
Choluteca. The project's principal activities include: preparation of land-related policies
and regulations; development of technological platforms for land administration;
institutional strengthening; area-based systematic field surveying (boundaries of large
areas, and parcel-level), land regularization, conflict resolution, titling, and registration.
It is expected the project will survey approximately 12,000 parcels in national forest
areas, demarcate and incorporate into SINAP 12 protected areas, and demarcate 16
indigenouscommunities, out of which approximately 75% will be regularized and titled.

The following annex provides information as to the Safeguard Policies triggered by the
project, safeguards-related risks and/or impacts identified through studies or assessments,
the measures to be taken to address those safeguards-related risks, and procedures for
ensuring those measures are achieved duringproject implementation. As indicated below,
PATHhas been designed to comply fully with the letter and spirit of relevant World IDA
Safeguard Policies.

Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)

The project i s classified as Category B, requiring some type of Environmental Analysis
but not a full-scale Environmental Assessment study. In accordance with OP 4.01, an
Environmental Assessment (EA) was conducted by ECOMAC, a Honduran consulting
firm, and dated November 2003'. This EA identifies potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts associated with the project, develops mechanisms and measures to
avoid, minimize and/or mitigate negative impacts, and presents an Environmental
Management Plan with specific activities, budgets and responsibilities to ensure the
implementationof these mitigating measures.

Inaccordance with IDA's Information Disclosure Policy (BP 17.50), copies of this report
(in Spanish) are available for public view at the PATH office in Tegucigalpa (Edif.
Educredito, 2a planta, Colonia Florencia Norte); a copy was also forwarded to IDA's
InfoShop on December 9, 2003. The important findings and useful recommendations
from this report are reflected inproject design and summarized inthis Annex.



                                              75

The EA found the range of potential environmental impacts (positive or negative) relate
primarily to land use, including conservation versus deforestation or other land use
changes. On balance, the proposed project i s expected to be positive from an
environmental standpoint. It would promote the conservation of forests and other natural
habitats, both directly through the strengthening of existing protected areas and forest
reserves in Colon, Cortes, and Atlintida, and indirectly, through the establishment and
demarcation of indigenous reserves in Colon, Atlintida and Gracias a Dios. Land titling,
cadastre, and registry services would induce a series o f behavioral changes among rural
landholders; many of these would be environmentally positive, although some could be
negative. The environmental impacts (positive and negative) associated with induced
changes in landholder behavior would be monitored under the project; nonetheless, any
adverse impacts would be more than adequately compensated by the environmental
benefits of strengthened protected areas, national forests and indigenous and Afro-
Honduran lands.

Positive Environmental Impacts:

Demarcationof ExistingProtectedAreas. Under Component 2, the project will survey
and physically demarcate (through placement of limited boundary markers) 12 existing
protected areas with a combined land area of roughly 271,000 hectares (ha) (including
Pic0 Bonito National Park (NP), Punta Sal (Jenet Kawas) PN, Punta Izopo PN, Texiguat
Wildlife Refuge, Barras de Cuero y Salado Wildlife Refuge, and Lancetilla Botanical
Garden in Atlintida, Capiro Calentura NP in Colon, and Cusuco NP, Mered6n Reserve,
Fortaleza de San Fernando de Omoa Monument, Laguna de Ticamaya Multiple Use
Area, and Lago de Yojoa Multiple Use Area in Cortes. All protected areas that will be
demarcated through the project have existing management plans, the content o f which
will be disseminated through the project with the support of local NGOs. If residents of
protected area buffer zones are practicing land uses that are compatible with the written
management plan, and they agree to continue doing so, they will receive a certificate of
occupation subject to the rules of the management plan. For each protected area, the
assistance provided would be designed to ensure complementarily and avoid overlaps
with other IDA-supported projects related to Honduran protected areas (GEF-funded
Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (PROBAP), Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Initiative,
and the Forest and Rural Productivity Project) as well as bilateral and NGO-supported
initiatives.

Identification of ProposedProtectedAreas. There is one officially proposed protected
area (Barros de Rio Motagua in Cortes) and two sites of known conservation value within
the project coverage areas (lands adjacent to Jenet Kawas in Atlintida, and patches of
lowland, well-drained pine forest inthe Sula Valley o f Cortes). The project would isolate
these areas for special consideration in advance of systematic land regularization in those
areas. Thus, the project will help ensure that their future conservation potential would not
be compromisedb y the premature issuance and registration of new private land titles.

Demarcation and Regularization of Indigenous (and Afro-Honduran) Lands. The
project will survey and demarcate the lands o f approximately 16 ethnic communities, out



                                            76

of which some 12will be regularized and titled. The specific ethnic lands to be addressed
by the project will be determined through ongoing consultation with indigenous peoples.
InHonduras, the landuse patterns characteristic of indigenous peoples are normally more
forest-conserving and environmentally friendly than those of most non-indigenous rural
peoples. While the land uses of most Honduran indigenous peoples are largely forest-
based (including hunting, fishing, collection of forest products, and small-scale shifting
agriculture), the predominant land use among non-indigenous rural people i s often cattle
ranching on deforested pastures. Thus, by securing the land claims o f indigenous
communities-both        legally through titling, and on the ground through physical
demarcation-the      project will be instrumental in promoting more environmentally
friendly land use over an extensive area. Inthe special case of ethnic communities which
overlap with protected areas, the project will promote co-management agreements
between the indigenous community, NGOs and the protected area management entity.

Reduced Deforestationto Prove Use and Possession. Inrural Honduras, the traditional
means to demonstrate possession and use of a parcel of land i s to remove the existing
forest through cutting and burning. Conversely, much forested land (if not demarcated
and actively protected) i s perceived as being available for settlement and clearing.
However, once they have obtained secure titles from INA (or the municipality if the
parcel i s located within an urban area) or certificates of use from CODEHFOR (if the
parcel i s located in a national forest), landowners would no longer need to clear their
remaining forest to demonstrate their possession or productive use to others. They could
maintain the forests on their lands without fear o f losing them to new squatters or other
claimants.

Longer-term Land Management. Increased land tenure security resulting from project
activities i s expected to encourage some rural landowners to invest in reforestation, forest
management, agro-forestry, perennial crops, and other land uses with a relatively long-
term payoff. These uses are almost always more environmentally friendly than with a
short-term payoff, such as annual field crops or pastures on deforested lands.

Appropriate Intensification of Agricultural Land Use. The project will improve land
tenure security, as well as facilitate improved access to capital by landowners who
receive clean, properly registered titles and/or use contracts. Both tenure security and
increased access to capital by recently-titled landowners (all attributable to the project)
will encourage more intensive utilization of those lands with decent agricultural potential.
Such lands are presently often underutilized as cattle pastures, which provide relatively
low employment and income per hectare. In the Honduran context, agricultural
intensification on these (already deforested) lands would be environmentally beneficial
by (a) reducing the land area needed to produce a given amount of food or income and
(b) providing additional employment to the rural poor, some of whom might otherwise
migrate to forested areas as new colonists.

Limits on Settlement within Disaster-Prone Areas. The project will discourage the
expansion of settlements in urban disaster-prone areas. Through linkages between PATH
and IDA-supported Natural Disasters Project, the project will delineate and prevent



                                             77

granting of property titles to parcels located in designated disaster-prone areas, including
steep slopes andriver floodplains among others.

Potential Adverse Environmental Impacts:

The changes inlandholder behavior attributable to increased land tenure security could be
environmentally positive. At the same time, some of the project-induced behavioral
changes resulting from more secure land titles and more dynamic land markets could be
negative from an environmental standpoint.              The combined effects of these
environmentally positive and negative behavioral changes on the Honduran landscape are
impossible to quantify a priori, since the number of landholders who would change their
land use practices in different ways remains unknown. For this reason, the project will
provide for substantial environmental monitoring and evaluation.

Deforestationin Anticipation of Land Titling. A landholder's incentive to clear forest
to demonstrate possession and use of a parcel of land should decline after receipt of a
secure title made possible through project activities. However, it i s possible that the
landholder might accelerate land clearing activity in advance o f the arrival o f the project
brigades who would measure, map, and register the land parcel (in order to demonstrate
the largest possible area under "productive use"). The project would seek to discourage
this practice through a public information campaign which would emphasize, inter alia,
that deforestation i s neither necessary nor sufficient to claim possession o f a parcel of
land. Additionally, the project will establish official cut-off dates (fechas de corte) for all
forests, ethnic lands and protected areas in the project area, the physical conditions of
which would be catalogued using data from aerial photos, after which no new
deforestation would be acceptable as demonstrating "productive use".

Increased Land Clearing from Greater Access to Capital. By receiving secure land
titles, many landowners would enjoy increased access to capital, resulting from improved
access to credit, because the titled land could be used as collateral, and from the "wealth
effect" due to the greater value of titled versus untitled land. It i s reasonable to expect that
some landowners would use part of their increased access to capital for clearing the
remaining forests on their property to expand their area of pasture or cropland.

Increased Migration to Forest Frontier Areas. Through greater landtenure security as
well as improved registry and cadastre services, the project i s expected to promote more
dynamic land markets, through greater agility in the sale and purchase o f lands. As a
result of this dynamism, some rural landowners might be more inclined to sell their fully-
titled land and use the proceeds to migrate and clear more land at the forest frontier.
However, receiving a secure title i s expected to encourage some project beneficiaries to
remain on (and invest further in) their current landholdings, thereby reducing their
tendency to migrate to new, forested lands.

EnvironmentalManagement Plan:




                                              78

The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) comprises the activities which promote
environmental enhancement and mitigation under the project. These EMP activities are
mainstreamed within the components of the project, rather than being supported by a
stand-alone component. The EMP i s summarized in the following section. Additional
details on the timing, line itembudgets, and specific institutional responsibilities will be
inthe Operational Manual for the project andthe Annual Project OperatingPlan(POA).

Protected Areas Demarcation. Component 2 of the project includes support for the
surveying and demarcation of 12 existing protected areas. Occupants of buffer zones
would receive occupation certificates provided they agree to the conditions o f the existing
management plans. No occupation certificates will be given in core zones of protected
areas. The Department of Protected Areas and Wildlife (DAPVS), within AFE-
COHDEFOR would be responsible for implementing key project activities (provision of
pre-field work geographical and legal information, validation of field data) in protected
areas. Additionally, co-management agreements will be established with NGOs who will
disseminate the contents of existing management glans for those protected areas The
project will finance institutional strengthening activities at AFE-COHDEFOR, in the
form of training and equipment, and information dissemination activities for NGOs.

Land Administration Procedures within Proposed Protected Areas. Within the
project's area of influence exist several critical natural habitats which are not yet a part o f
the country's system of protected areas (SINAPH), particularly Barros de Rio Motagua in
Cortes) and two sites of known conservation value within the project coverage areas
(adjacent to Jeannette Kawas in Atlantida, and patches of well-drained pine forest in the
Sula Valley (Cortes). The unconditional titling o f land parcels within these proposed
protected areas could substantially complicate efforts to ensure their long-term
conservation. To avoid jeopardizing the future conservation potential of these
ecologically important areas, the project will not register nor title any private land claims
within or adjacent to these sites unless and until SERNA has made an official decision
made about their status.

ForestLandsDemarcation.The project will support the surveying and limitedphysical
demarcation of forest management units. Occupants of these lands will receive
certificates of occupation subject to the rules established in Management Plans. AFE-
COHDEFOR would be responsible for implementing key project activities (provision o f
pre-field work geographical and legal information, validation o f field data) in forest units,
with local NGOs providing technical assistance (through co-execution agreements). The
project will finance institutional strengthening activities at AFE-COHDEFOR, in the
form of training and equipment, and technical assistance for NGOs.

Lands of Ethnic Communities. The project will support the surveying and physical
demarcation of lands belonging to about 16 ethnic communities (either indigenous
peoples or of Afro-Honduran descent) and the titling of about 12 of these along the
Atlantic Coast. These activities will help conserve forests that would otherwise be
vulnerable to settlement and deforestation by non-indigenous Hondurans.




                                               79

Timing of Land Regularization. The timing of land regularization activities would be
carefully coordinated with protected area demarcation and consolidation activities to
avoid prematurely and unconditionally titling lands within protected areas before the
needed land management and environmental protection measures have been agreed
between AFE-COHDEFOR, local residents, and other stakeholders. Specifically, the
titling of lands adjacent to protected areas will occur only after the boundaries of those
protected areas are clearly defined. In those cases where the exact boundaries of a
protected area were not known on the ground, Regularization Areas (where field teams
will systematically carry out surveying, regularization, titling, and registration activities)
would be carefully pre-defined to include a sufficiently wide buffer margin that would
exclude any possibility of overlap with existing or proposed protected areas. N o
regularization of private land titles or claims would take place within or adjacent to any
existing or proposed protected area prior to its physical demarcation.

Environmental Representation in Project Executing Entities. Honduras' national
environmental and protected areas agency, SERNA, as well as the national forest
administration, AFE-COHDEFOR, will be represented on the project's Council of
Governors and the Technical Steering Committee. Environmental NGOs with an interest
in conservation and other land use issues will be invited to participate (along with
producer organizations, cooperatives, community groups, indigenous organizations, and
other stakeholders) in Council of Governors and Technical Steering Committee meetings,
workshops for advising on land policies and project implementation, and other events.
Conservation NGOs are also expected to be important partners in the project's activities
to demarcate specific protected areas as well as in the public information campaign to
promote the project and SINAPH.

Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation. As noted above, many of the linkages
between improved land tenure security, changed landholder behavior, and beneficial or
adverse environmental effects are impossible to quantify a priori. Due to these
uncertainties, good monitoring and evaluation o f the project's environmental effects are
all the more important. For the environmental monitoring and evaluation o f this project,
the key output indicators would include (i)      the number and surface area of existing
protected areas surveyed and demarcated; (ii)     the number and area of lands of ethnic
communities surveyed and demarcated; (iii)       number and area o f national forest lands
surveyed; (iv) land use changes following land titling; and (v) whether key environmental
agencies and NGOs are fully participating inproject activities.

Consultation. The government has ensured consultation with various stakeholder groups
including indigenous groups, NGOs working with the environment and indigenous
issues, governmental agencies, municipalities and civil society. In addition to ongoing
consultation during project preparation, the EA, Process Framework and PDP were
presented at a broadly disseminated consultation inTegucigalpa on December 2,2003.




                                             80

Natural Habitats (OP 4.04):

The unconditional titling of land parcels within areas that qualify as critical natural
habitats (defined in OP 4.04 to include, inter alia, existing and proposed protected areas)
could substantially complicate efforts to ensure their long-term conservation. To address
this issue, the project will support the surveying and demarcation of approximately 12
existing protected areas within the project's geographic area of influence. The project
will also refrain from titling or registering land claims within any identified ecologically
important areas to avoid jeopardizing their future conservation potential. Aside from
these critical natural habitats, other natural habitats (mainly forests) might possibly be
adversely affected b y induced changes in landholder behavior resulting from PATH-
supported activities.   However, as noted above, these behavioral changes should, on
balance, be more positive than negative from a forest conservation standpoint. Even
under the most pessimistic scenario, the net deforestation attributable to such behavioral
changes would be much less than the area of protected natural habitats that would be
more effectively conserved as a result of the demarcation o f about 271,000 ha of existing
protected areas, along with the demarcation of 12 (still largely forested) indigenous
reserves.

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20):

The project triggers O D 4.20 as it will support the demarcate and title ancestral
indigenous and Afro-Honduran lands in the name of those peoples. To comply with OD
4.20, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) has been prepared by
Government.     Drawing upon informed participation, the PDP aims to ensure that
indigenous peoples (P)are not adversely effected by the project, and that they receive
culturally compatible social and economic benefits.

Inaccordance with IDA'sInformation Disclosure Policy (BP 17.50), copies of this report
(in Spanish) are available for public view at the PATH office in Tegucigalpa (Edif.
Educredito, 2a planta, Colonia Florencia Norte); a copy was also forwarded to IDA's
InfoShop on December 8,2003.


Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12):

The Association and GOH have agreed that no involuntary physical displacement would
take place under this project. Incases such of people who live within the boundaries of a
protected area or consumptively use its natural resources, or where non-indigenous
people live within the boundaries of an indigenous reserve or enter to use its natural
resources, a Process Framework for mitigating potential livelihood impacts has been
prepared by the Borrower and i s available at the PATH office in Tegucigalpa (Edif.
Educredito, 2a planta, Colonia Florencia Norte); a copy was also forwarded to IDA's
InfoShop on December 8, 2003. The Process Framework describes how these cases
would be addressed under the Project, all in a manner consistent with the letter and spirit
of O D 4.30. The Process Framework will be part of the Legal Agreement.



                                              81

Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)

There i s one legally declared historic/archeological site within the project area which i s
located in Cortes (Fortaleza de San Fernanado de Omoa). This site will be surveyed and
demarcated as described inthe protected areas discussion above. The administration and
conservation of this area will be placedunder the National Historical and
Anthropological Institute (MAH) and the National Tourism Institute (MT).

The Project will support the conservation of Honduras' cultural and archeological
patrimony, thus helping to define other undeclared sites through project regularization
activities. Specifically, so as to ensure that project activities do not result inunintentional
titling of areas of highcultural value, if public or private lands are found, or suspected, to
contain culturally valuable resources, information on these lands would be forwarded to
MAHand M T andtitling would only be allowed following an official findingfromthose
agencies




                                               82

                    Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                    HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram


                                               Planned                 Actual
PCN review                                                          April 9,2003
Initial PID to PIC                                                  July 16,2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                 July 16,2003
Appraisal                                December 9,2003         December 9,2003
Negotiations                              January 6-7, 2004      January 8-9,2004
Board/RVP approval                       February 17,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                 May 1,2004
Planneddate of mid-term review             April 30, 2006
Plannedclosing date                        April 30,2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:

The Project Coordination Unit of the Proyecto de Administracidn de Areas Rurales
(PAAR), under the leadership of Arq. Henry Merriam, prepared the project with inputs
from several of PAAR's co-executing agencies and specialized consultancies.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                       Title                       Unit
Jorge A. Muiioz                Task Team Leader, Sr. Land            LCSER
                                 Administration Specialist
IsabelLavadenz Paccieri         Sr. LandPolicy Specialist,           SASRD
                                       former TTL
Frederic de Dinechin             Sr. Land Administration             LCSER
                                         Specialist
Edgardo Mosqueira               Sr. Public Sector Specialist         LCSPS
Josefina Stubbs                   Sr. Social Development             LCSEO
                                         Specialist
Juan Martinez                       Sr. Social Scientist             LCSEO
Anna Corsi                          Operations Analyst               ESDVP
Teresa Roncal                       Operations Analyst               LCSER
Ann JeannetteGlauber              Consultant, Safeguards             LCSEN
Marquez Martinez                  Consultant, Indigenous             LCSEO
                                     Peoples Specialist
Malcolm Childress                Consultant, Agricultural            LCSER
                                        Economist
Maria Valeria Pefia                  Lead Sociologist                LCSEO
George Ledec                          Lead Ecologist                 LCSEN
Alejandra Bouquet                   Young Professional
Gabriela Boyer                    Consultant, Operations             LCSER



                                             83

Juan Morelli                      Consultant, Economist              FAO, CP
Oliver Taft                             Consultant                   LCSER
Isabelle Girardot-Berg           Consultant, Agricultural            LCSER
                                        Economist
IraniEscolano                     ProcurementSpecialist              LCOPR
LuisTineo                       Sr. ProcurementSpecialist            LCOPR
Rajeev Swami                      Financial Management               LCOAA
                                        Specialist
Pilar Gonzalez                           Counsel                     LEGLA
Eduardo Brito                          Sr. Counsel                   LEGLA
JonBarton                            Finance Officer                 LOAG3
Emily Brearley   .                  Junior Professional              LCC2C
                                        Associate
Ketty Morales                        TeamAssistant                   LCSER
Maria Nikolov                        Team Assistant                  LCSEN
Daniel Sellen                  Sr. Agricultural Economist,           SASRD
                                      Peer Reviewer
Wael Zakout                      Lead Operations Officer,            EASRD
                                      Peer Reviewer


Inadditionto Bankstaff peerreviewers, theproject was reviewedby the following
external specialists: Jolyne Sanjak (USAID) and Pedro Olinto (IFPRI, PCD stage only).


Bankfunds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bankresources: $283,753
   2. Trust funds: $432,339
   3. Total: $716,091

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: $10,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $95,000




                                            84

                Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
              HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram


Government's project document
Letter of Development Program
Detailed project cost tables
Procurement Plan
Environmental Analysis
Participatory Social Analysis
Economic Analysis
Institutional Analysis
Legal Analysis
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
Resettlement Process Framework




                                85

                                           Annex 13: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                         HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram

                                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                                           expectedand actual
                                                                Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                    IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO70038     2004   Trade Facilitation andProductivityEnha       0.00     28.06      0.00      0.00     0.00      29.26      0.00        0.00
PO40177     2003   HNFinancialSectorTechnicalAssistance         0.00      9.90      0.00      0.00     0.00      10.30      0.00        0.00
PO81172     2003   HNRegionalDevinthe CopanValley               0.00     12.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      12.60      0.00        0.00
PO57859     2002   HNSUST COASTALTOURISM                        0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      4.00        1.31       1.93
                   PROJECT(LIL)
PO53575     2002   HN-HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM                        0.00     27.10      0.00      0.00      0.00     28.48      -1.52       0.00
                   PROJECT
PO60785     2001   HNECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT                  0.00     19.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      13.02      14.53       0.00
                   PROJECT
PO64895     2001   HNFIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT                    0.00     60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     22.18      -0.72       0.00
                   FUNDPROJECT
PO73035     2001   HNAccess to LandPilot (PACTA)                0.00      8.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      6.04       3.24       0.00
PO57538     2001   HNROADRECONSTRUCTIONAND                      0.00     66.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     40.88       3.68       0.00
                   IMPROVEMENT
PO07397     2001   HNCOMMUNITY-BASEDEDUCATION                   0.00     41.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     37.34      16.64       0.00
                   PROJECT
PO64913     2000   HNEMERGDISASTER MGMT(TAL)                    0.00      10.82     0.00      0.00      0.00      7.18       2.09       0.00
PO57350     1999   HNPROFUTURO                                  0.00      8.30      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.70      -0.62        3.36
PO44343     1998   GEFHN-BIODIVERSITY                           0.00      0.00      0.00      7.00      0.00      2.51       7.00        0.00
                   CONSERVATION
PO07398     1997   HNRURALLANDMGMT                              0.00     34.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.55      -5.65       -5.64

                                                       Total:   0.00   330.18       0.00      7.00      0.00    218.04      39.98     - 0.35


                                                              HONDURAS
                                                         STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       HeldandDisbursed Portfolio
                                                         InMillions of U S Dollars

                                                                Committed                                    Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                         IFC
        FY Approval   Company                        Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic.    Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.
     _______~
        1998          Camino RealPlaz                7.07       0.00        0.00      0.00        7.07      0.00        0.00       0.00
                      Elcosa                         0.00       0.63        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.63        0.00        0.00
        0195
        1986199       Granjas Marinas                4.50       0.00        0.00       0.00       4.50      0.00        0.00        0.00

                                    Totalportfilio:   11.57     0.63        0.00       0.00      11.57      0.63        0.00        0.00



                                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval      Company                           Loan        Equity       Quasi        Partic.


                                            Totalpendingcommittment:       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                     86

                                             Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                  HONDURAS: LandAdministrationProgram
                                                                 Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
                                                     Honduras & Carib.   income         Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                             6.8     527      2,411                   Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                          920    3280       1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                            6.2    1,727     3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                      I                     T
Population (%)                                             2.6       15        1.0
Laborforce ('3'3)                                          3.7      2.2        12       GNI                                Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                per                               w a r y
                                                                                        capita                          nroilment
Poverty ("% of populationbelowflationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                       55        76       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                             66        71       69                          1
Infant mortality(per 1,0001ivebirths)                       31       27       30
Chiidmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                      l7        9        11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource ("ofpopulation)           88        86        81
Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage Si)                            24         11       U
Gross primaryenrollment                                    106      DO         111        --Honduras
   Male                                                    105       x31       111                Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                  107      P 8       110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                 1982    1992    2001      2002
                                                                                        Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 2.9     3.4      6.4       6.6
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      14.1   26.0     30.5
Exportsof goods andservicesiGDP                    25.9   29.8     38.2                                 Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGD P                        2.0    8.0       x3.9
Gross national savingslGDP                          5.9   15.8     20.2
Current account balanceiGDP                        -7.9   -7.5      -5.1
InterestpaymentsiGDP                                3.8    4.7       12        1.4
Total debtiGDP                                     63.5   1t3.8    78.9       81.8
Total debt servicelexports                         31.0   30.9       11.1     15.7
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                           49.3
                                                                                                                                    I
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                      102.0

                                     1982-92 1992-02     2001    2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrowih)
GDP                                       3.4       2.8    3.3      2.0       4.5          -Honduras

GDP percapita                             0.3       0.1    0.7     -0.6        1.9             - Lower-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1982    1992    2001      2002         Growth of investment and GDP
(%ofGDP)                                                                                                                     ( O h )


Agriculture                                        21.6   20.4      t3.7
Industry                                           24.4   29.6      31.5
   Manufacturing                                   14.7   17.8     20.3
Services                                           53.9   50.0     54.8

Private consumption                                75.0   69.4     72.3
Generalgovernment consumption                      0.1     11.5     t3.8
imports of goods andservices                       28.1   36.8     54.9

                                             1962-92 1992-02     2001      2002
(averageannualgro Mh)                                                                  Growth o f exports and imports      ( O h )


Agriculture                                         3.5     15      -0.9                10
lndustfy                                            3.5    3.2       16                 5
   Manufacturing                                    4.1     4.1      5.2                0
Services                                            3.0    3.6      4.5                -5                                          2
Private consumption                                 3.0    2.9       3.8              .IO
Generalgovernment consumption                       2.4    4.6      11.3            .15
Gross domestic investment                           9.0    3.9      -3.9
Imports of goods andservices                        4.1    3.3       3.6                      -*-E   Exports    -Imports




                                                                87

                                                                      ,                                    Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982  1992    2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                          Inflation  ( O h )                                 I
("Achange)                                                             25
Consumer prices                                   8.8     9.7     8.1  20
Implicit GDP deflator                      4.4    9.1     8.6     7.3   I5
                                                                        10
Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)                                         5

Current revenue                           0.5    7.7     18.2    19.7    O '    97         98    99     00      0,        hl
Current buaget balance                    -1.5    1.6   -0.4      0.3
Overall surplus/deficit                   -B.l  -3.8     -8.1   -7.0             -----GDPdeflator        -CPI


TRADE
                                         1982  1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       677   833     1,379  1,435
 Bananas                                  218   256     204                                                                 I
 Coffee                                   a53     147     161
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                       739   1,086  2,997   2,979   2 645
 Food                                     D4      m     480
 Fuel and energy                          167     161   402
                                                                       i
 Capital goods                             115   201    867     904         O
Export price index(1995=?30)                       81     90      69           96     97      98  99     00

Import price index(1995=W0)                       79      ld      109             exports          olmports
Terms of trade (1995=W0)                          D3      82      82

BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                         1982  1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balance t o GDP             ( O h )I
Exports of goods andservices              767   1,002  2,447   2,584     0
Imports of goods andservices              623   1234   3,5P    3,621     1
Resource balance                          -56   -232   -1,064  -1,037   -2

Net income                               -202   -169     -141   -P9     -3

Net current transfers                      T7     63    550      603    -4
                                                                        -5
Current account balance                  -228   -258    -325            .6

Financingitems (net)                      144   299     405             -7

Changes innet reserves                     84     -41    -80      -60   .8
                                                                        -9
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           299     1,386   1,132
Conversion rate (DEC. locai/US$)           2.0    5.5    15.5    16.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982  1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed      1,844 3,893   5,050   5,395
  IBRD                                    217   469       E8      D5
  IDA                                      79     182    901    1,014  I                G 5 2 4 A:105

Total debt service                        244   377      343      410
  iBRD                                     21     69       18      33
  IDA                                        1     2       10      a
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                          34     8 2     197
  Official creditors                      163    221    209        69
  Privatecreditors                           1    -16    -69      -43
  Foreign direct investment                14     48      195
  Portfolio equity                          0       0       0
World Bank program
  Commitments                              30     54     201       27
  Disbursements                            51     63      98       51    A IBRD
                                                                            --          -                    E- Bilateral

  Principal repayments                                                   B IDA       D Other multilateral    F. Private
                                            7     47        9      28    C-IMF                               G. Short-teri




                                                      88




