    INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                 1818HStreet, N.W.              Telephone:(202) 458-5200
                                                       Washington, D.C. 20433          Fax :(202) 522-0916
                                                       U.S.A.
                                                       Email:ipanel@worldbank.org



      IPNREQUESTRQ06/1


                                                                                    January 10,2006




                               NOTICE OFREGISTRATION

                                   Re: Requestfor Inspection
     HONDURAS:LandAdministrationProject(IDA CreditNo. 3858-HO)


   On January 3, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
Inspection (the "Request") related to the Honduras: Land Administration Project (the
"Project" - in Spanish, Programa de Administracidn de la Tierra-PATH). The Request
was submitted by the Organizacidn Fraternal Negra Honduras (OFRANEH) on behalf
o f the indigenous Garifma population of Honduras. OFRANEH states that it i s a
federation, whose members are elected every three years by the Garifuna communities
as their representatives, as provided in the articles o f agreements o f the organization.
The Requesters claim that the communities they represent have been harmed and are
likely to suffer further harm from the above-referenced Project, which is partially
financed by a credit o f the International Development Association (IDA1)o f US$ 25
million equivalent.

   According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project's objective i s an
integrated and decentralized land administration system, including public and private
entities, to provide people in the Project area with accurate information on urban and
rural land parcels, as well as effective land administration services (purchase,
mortgages, cadastral2 and registry certifications, etc.) in a timely and cost-effective
manner. The PAD states that the Project's second component provides for the
regularization and registration o f rural and urban land and covers a "diverse cross-
section of Honduran society, including the rich and the poor, men and women, ladino,
indigenous, andAfro-Honduran."

'IDAis  also referredto as the "Bank"
 The cadastre is an official register ofthe quantity,value, andownershipofreal estate, which is usedin
apportioningtaxes.
 ProjectAppraisalDocumentfor a LandAdministrationProjectinsupport ofthe first phaseof aLand
AdministrationProgram(PAD), January 22,2004, p. 5.



                                                                                                           1

    The Requesters state that ancestral landsare to be regularized infavor of indigenous
and Afro-Honduran populations by recognizing communal or individual land rights,
based on the preference o f each community, and by registering such rights in the land
registry. In addition, they note that properties and possessions supported by ancestral
title or certification can be registered as private property and enjoy full ownership
rights. However, the Requesters fear that the landtitling andprocedures provided under
the Project will ultimately cause the demiseof collective property infavor of individual
property, which i s contrary to the land tenure system they prefer, and could give their
land, which they consider as their functional habitat, to people outside the Garifha
communities. They fear that the new titling program under the Bank-financed project
will cause "severe damage to the Garifuna people and a serious violation of their
rights ."


    The Requesters claim that, indesigning and implementing the Project, the Bank did
not take into account the rights and interests o f the Garifuna communities and, as a
result, violated a number o f its policies and procedures, such as O D 4.20 on Indigenous
People, OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and OP/BP 4.04 on Natural
Habitats.

    The Requesters fear that their collective rights will not be recognized. They claim
that, inpreparing the IPDP, the Bank did not consider the legal status o f the indigenous
populations or the procedures to issue collective titles, as provided in the country's
Constitution and legislation. The Requestersalso claim that while the IPDP provides for
issuing regulations to delimit and demarcate indigenous peoples' lands, these were
never issued.

    According to the Request, Bank staff did not consult with affected people prior to
preparing the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP), and did not distribute
Project background material. The Requesters assert that the Bank disseminated the text
o f the plan only a short time before the single consultative meeting that took place with
the Garifha people. The Requesters state that, on that occasion, the representatives of
all the Garifha communities o f Honduras signed a document that presented a firm
rejection o f the IPDP, and proposed several alternatives. The Requesters claim that the
Bank did not take into account any of the people's proposals or their criticisms about
inconsistencies in applying the titling arrangements provided under the Project. They
maintain that these arrangements do not reflect the special legal situation o f the
Garifha people or their preferredlandtenure options.

    The Requesters state that, although Bank staffwere aware during Projectpreparation
that the Government was to enact a Property Law, which was to be the centerpiece o f
the landtitling program, they did not mentionthis law inthe legal framework section of
the Project documents. According to the Requesters, the Garifha people opposed this
law. The failure to reference the Property Law and the lack o f consultation meetings
with the affected people have generated confusion within the Garifha communities,
because the Project documents, including the IPDP, on the one side, and the Property
Law on the other, provide for two different sets o f procedures for land titling and




                                                                                           2

conflict resolution. In any event, the Requesters claim that both sets of procedures are
inadequate because they do not respond to their social andpolitical reality.

   According to the Request, the Bank did not comply with OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment because, although the environmental analysis addresses the problems
affecting the Garifuna land, it does not provide that the Garifuna communities may
manage or co-manage their land to restore their control over the "functional habitat"
that they have preserved for centuries. According to the Request, the management o f
these areas i s left to institutions defined in the Project's manual and to NGOs with no
participation o f indigenous communities provided or required. The Request further
claims that the Project did not take into account the importance o f natural habitats for
the livelihoodofthe Garifuna communities, as required by OP 4.04 onNaturalHabitats.

   The Requesters state that they brought their concerns to Bank Management on
several occasions but didnot find the solutions proposed by the Bank satisfactory. They
believe that implementingthe Project will endanger the survival o f the Garifuna people
"because they cannot agree to solutions unless they are based on a concrete will to
resolve the conflicts and recognize the rights over the lands that ancestrally belong to
them.'' They therefore request that the Panel recommend an investigation to the Board
of ExecutiveDirectors.

    The Requesters claim that the Bankhas failed to comply with various provisions of
the following operational Policies andProcedures:

    OP/BP 4.01                           EnvironmentalAssessment
    OPBP 4.04                            NaturalHabitats
    OMS 2.34 (1982), OD 4.20 (1991) and OP/BP 4.10 (2005) Indigenous Peoples
    World Bankpolicy on Disclosure o f Information

    All communications withthe Requestersinconnection with the Requestwill be sent
untilfurther notice to Luiz Fernandezat OFRANEH, 2d0 Piso Libreria el Trebol, Barrio
ElCentro, La Ceiba, Honduras.

   In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the
`Operating Procedures'), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on January 10, 2006, which i s
also the date o f the dispatch o f this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection
Panel Register.

   In accordance with paragraph 18 of the IDA Resolution that established the Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the "Conclusions of the Board's SecondReview of
the Inspection Panel'' (the `1999 Clarifications'), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than February 9, 2006,
with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's
relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced Project.        The
subject matter that Management must deal with ina response to the Request i s set out in
paragraphs 3 and 4 o fthe 1999 Clarifications.




                                                                                           3

   After receiving Management Response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether
the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the
Resolution] and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether
the matter should be investigated."

   The Request has beenassignedIPNRequest Number RQ06/1.


                                  Yours sincerely,




    Mr.LuizFernandez
    Organizacih Fraternal NegraHonduras    - OFRANEH
    2d0 Piso Libreria el Trebol,
   Barrio El Centro
   La Ceiba, Honduras

   Mr.PaulD.Wolfowitz
   President
   International Development Association
   Room M C12-750

   The Executive Directors andAlternates
   International Development Association




                                                                                      4

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                       1818 H Street,N W        Telephone, (202) 458-5200
                                                          Washington, D.C 20433     Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                    Email: ipanel@worldbank.org

EdithBrownWeiss
Chairperson




                                                                        IPNREQUEST RQ06/1

                                                                         January 10,2006


                     MEMORANDUMTO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                THE INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                   Requestfor Inspection
          HONDURAS:LandAdministrationProject(IDA CreditNo. 3858-HO)

       Inaccordancewithparagraph 17 ofIDA Resolutionthat established the InspectionPanel
(the "Resolution")  and paragraph 17 of the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures (the
"Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on January 3, 2006, the InspectionPanel (the
"Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-referenced
Project.

       IhaveonJanuary10,2006, whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,registered
the Requestinthe InspectionPanel Register.Enclosed are:

        1. copy of the Notice of Registration; and
       2. copy ofthe Request for Inspection

       In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
"Conclusions of the Board`s SecondReview of the InspectionPanel" (the "1999 Clarifications"),
and paragraph 18 (6) o f the Operating Procedures, Bank Management is hereby notified that it
must provide the Panel, no later than February 9, 2006, with written evidence that it has
complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies andprocedures inrelationto the
above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to
the Requestis set out inparagraphs 3 and4 ofthe 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

        The RequesthasbeenassignedIPNRequestNumber RQ06/1.




Enclosures:

 Requestfor Inspection
 Notice o f Registration


TO:     Mr.PaulWolfowitz
        President
        InternationalDevelopment Association
        Room MC12-750

        [By handagainst confirmation]

cc:     The ExecutiveDirectors andAlternates
        InternationalDevelopment Association




                                             2

