                           ReportNo. 354701

The InspectionPanel




   Reportand Recommendation




Honduras: LandAdministrationProject
      (IDA Credit 3858-HO)


          March 14,2006


                                    The InspectionPanel


                               Report and Recommendation
                                                On
                                   Requestfor Inspection


  Honduras: LandAdministrationProject(IDA Credit No. 3858-HO)

   1.     On January 3, 2006, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection
          ("the Request") related to the Honduras: Land Administration Project ("the
          Project" - in Spanish Programa de Administracidn de Tierras de Honduras,
          PATH'). The Request refers to alleged negative impacts of the Project on the
          Garifuna people and their land claims; it does not refer to other Project
          components. The Request received was in Spanish. It includes 13 attachments.
          The Panel registeredthe Request on January 10,2006.

   2.     The Organizacih Fraternal Negra Honduras (OFRANEH) submitted the
          Request on behalf o f the indigenous Garifuna population o f Honduras.
          OFRANEH states that it i s a federation whose members are elected every three
          years by the Garifuna communities as their representatives.


A. The Project

    3.    Project Objective: According to the Development Credit Agreement the
          objective o f the Project i s "to establish and operate (as part of the broader
          Program) an integrated and decentralized land administration system,
          composed of public and private entities, which provides users in the Project
          area with accurate information on urban and rural land parcels and effective
           land administration services (e.g.purchases, mortga es, cadastral and registry
           certijkations) in a timely and cost-effective manner."      !

    4.     Project Components: The Project is composed of three parts (A, B and C)
           respectively aimed at developing policy framework and institutional
           strengthening for the creation and operation of a National Property
           Administration System (in Spanish Sistema Nacional de Administracidn de la


* DevelopmentCreditAgreement
'Inthis report, the Spanish acronym "PATH' will also be usedto indicatethe Project.
                                 (Land AdministrationProject) betweenRepublic ofHondurasand
InternationalDevelopmentAssociation, August 18, 2004, [hereinafter"Credit Agreement"], Schedule 2.


                                                   1

            Propiedad - SINAP); systematizing the regularization, titling and registrationof
            lands inthe Project area; and carrying out monitoring and evaluation activities.

    5.      Particularly relevant to the claims presented inthe Request for Inspectioni s the          ,
            Project's Part B, which provides for systematic land regularization, titling and
            registration o f lands inthe Project Area. Under this component, the Project will
            carry out field surveying o f macro boundaries (e.g. municipal lands), urban and
            rural areas, forests, protected areas and ethnic lands.3Part B further provides for
            parcel-level surveying and validation in the form o f systematic cadastral field
            surveys o f urban and rural areas to demarcate property boundaries and property
            rights in each parcel. Legalization, titling and registration o f these lands will
            then be carried out. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states that this
            Project component will be implemented in seven regional departments o f
            Honduras: Cortes, Francisco Morazan, Comayagua, Atlantida, Colon, Gracias a
            Dios and Choluteca. According to the PAD, ethnic lands are to be surveyed,
            regularized, titled and registered in the departments o f Atlantida, Colon and
            Gracias a Dios.

    6.      The Project is the first phase of a three-phase Land Administration Program,
            which provides for establishing a fully integrated and decentralized National
            Property Administration System (SINAP) to increase security and transparency
            inland issues, improve governance and "stimulate the emergence of secondary
           financial markets such as insured bundled mortgage^".^ The PAD states that
            Phase Io f the program - the Project subject to the Request for Inspection -
            provides for, inter alia, incorporating in the national property administration
            system/SINAP real estate property located in the seven above-mentioned
            departments. Phase 11, to be started in 2008, aims at completing the parcel-
            based regularization and registration initiated under Phase I,expanding these
            activities to seven additional departments, and integrating into SINAP other
            property registries, such as movable assets, intellectual property etc. Phase 111,
            set to start in 2012, provides for, among other things, the completion o f the
            regularization and registration o f all urban and rural land parcels and the
            integration and consolidation o f all property registries under SINAP.6

    7.      Management Response to the Request for Inspection states that the
            development o f this three-phase Land Administration Program builds on a
            previous Bank-financed project, the Rural Land Management Project (PAAR)
            implemented between 1997 and 2003, which supported activities and land

 Accordingto the ProjectAppraisalDocument(PAD), theProjectadopts the definitiono f ethnic lands
includedinthe ConventionconcerningIndigenousandTribal PeoplesinIndependentCountries(C169),
1989, as "those lands that have ancestrally and historically been settled by Amerindian groups and/or
Afro-Honduran communitiesfor their use and that constitute their habitat on which they undertake their
traditionalproductive and cultural practices." ProjectAppraisalDocument(PAD) LandAdministration
Project insupporto fthe first phase ofa LandAdministrationProgram,January 22, 2004, p. 5
 PAD, p. 3.
 PAD, p. 5.
 PAD, p. 3.


                                                     2

         proceduresto create a parcel-based landregistrationmethod (in Spanish "Folio
         Real"). These activities were piloted in the Department o f Comayagua where,
         according to Management, 27,500ha o f land in thirteen indigenous Tolupan
         communitieswere demarcated andtitled.7

   8.    Financing:The Project is financed by an IDA Credit of 16,900,000 Special
         Drawing Rights (SDR), about USD 25 million. When the Request was
         submitted to the Panel (January 3, 2006) about USD 17.5 million had been
         disbursed, approximately 69% of the Credit. The Credit was approved by the
         IDA Board o f Executive Directors on February24, 2004, and became effective
         on December 2, 2004. The closing date i s April 30, 2008.

   9.    The Project i s financed through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), which
         provides phased support for long-term development programs by means o f a
         series o f loans, which build upon the lessons learned from the previous loans in
         the series. Moving to the next phase(s) of a program depends on satisfactory
         progress inmeeting agreed milestones, benchmarks and triggers.' According to
         Management, agreed triggers to move to Phase I1o f the Land Administration
         Program include the creation of the SNAP, the achievement o f at least 80
         percent of the Project Development objective indicators and the "adoption of
         legalhegulatoryframeworkfor IndigenousPeoples lands."'

   10.   Implementation Arrangements: According to the Credit Agreement, the
         overall implementer o f the Project i s the Minister o f Interior and Justice (SGJ)
         with the assistance ofExecuting Agencies and applicable municipalities."


B. The Request

   11.   The Requesters claim that the Bank did not take the rights and interests o f the
         Garifuna people into consideration inthe design, appraisal and implementation
         of the PATH Project and violated its own policies andprocedures.

   12.   The Requestpresents an overview of the history of the Garifuna people, which
         the Requesters believe is useful to understandthe magnitude ofthe damage that
         the PATH implementation may cause to them. The Garifuna people are
         descendants of African survivors o f a shipwreck, who arrived to the island of
         Saint Vincent, in the Caribbean Sea, in the 17th Century, and joined the
         Kalinaku indigenous people. In 1797 they were forcibly displaced to the island
         of Roatan by the British. The Garifimas subsequently settled in the city of
         Trujillo, in the Honduras mainland coast, but left it in the 19th century and


 Requestfor InspectionPanelReviewofthe HondurasLandAdministrationProject-Management
Response,February9,2006, [hereinafter "Management Response"], 7 8.
8ManagementResponse, 7 9.
 ManagementResponse,T 9.

lo
 Credit Agreement, Article 111, Section3.01 (a).


                                                 3

            established their villages along the Central American Caribbean coast.l1The
            Request asserts that in the first part o f the 20th century the Garifima territory
            was gradually recognized and their ancestral lands were collectively titled and
            registered as ejidos that could not be attached or sold. The first collective ejido
            title dates back to 1905 and was granted to the community o f Iriona. According
            to the Requesters, duringthe 1960s and 1970sthe Government recognized their
            legal status and legitimized their collective lend tenure system. However, the
            Requesters also state that inthe same period invasions o f the Garifuna territory
            started and have become more intense in the current times. In addition, in the
            1990s the Government implemented a titling program which left the 46
            Garifuna communities o f Honduras totally unsatisfied because the program did
            not take into account the demographic expansion o f the Garifuna population -
            and thus the amount o f land they were titled was less than they expected - and
            didnot recognize their functional habitat.   l2


    13.     The Requesters note that, under the PATH Project, ancestral lands are to be
            regularized in favor o f indigenous and Afro-Honduran populations by
            recognizing communal or individual land rights, based on the preference o f
            each community, and by registering such rights inthe land registry. They also
            observe that properties and possessions supported by ancestral title or
            certification can be registered as private property and enjoy fbll ownership
            rights. However, the Requesters fear that the land titling and procedures
            provided under the Project will ultimately cause the demise o f collective
            property in favor o f individual property, which i s contrary to the land tenure
            system they prefer, and could give their land, which they consider as their
            functional habitat, to people outside the Garifuna communities. They fear that
            the new titling program under the Bank-financed project will cause a "severe
            damage to the Garyuna people and a serious violation of their rights"
            13becausethese arrangements do not reflect the special legal situation of the
            Garifuna people or their preferredland tenure options.

    14.     The Requesters claim that, indesigning and implementingthe Project, the Bank
            did not take into account the rights and interests of the Garifuna communities
            and, as a result, violated a number o f its policies and procedures, such as OD
            4.20 on Indigenous People, OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and
            OPBP 4.04 on Natural Habitats. The Request also refers to the ILO
            Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent
            Countries Convention C169, and state that the Convention, ratified by
            Honduras in 1994, recognizes the rights o f the peoples with respect to the
            ownership and tenure o f the lands they traditionally occupy, as well as the
            special protectiono fthe natural resources o f these lands.l4



'* Garifunap.
            populationscan be found today inBelize, Guatemalaand Honduras.
   Request,   9.
l3 Request, p. 11.
l4Request, p.2.


                                                   4

    15.    According to the Request, Bank staff did not consult with affected people prior
           to preparing the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP), and did not
           distribute Project background material. The Requesters assert that the Bank
           disseminated the text o fthe plan only a short time before the single consultative
           meetingthat took place with the Garifuna people on December 17-19, 2003, in
           Sambo Creek. The Requesters state that, on that occasion, the representatives of
           all the Garifuna communities o f Honduras signed a document that presented a
           firm rejection of the IPDP, and proposed several alternatives. The Requesters
           claim that the Bank did not take into account any o f the people's proposals or
           their criticisms about inconsistencies in applying the titling arrangements
           provided under the Project."

    16.    The Request also refers to a meeting held in April 2005 in Trujillo in which
           pilot communities for the PATH were selected. The Requesters claim that the
           interested communities did not receive information about the Project, and no
           explanatory material was ever given to the communities' representatives who
           participated to that meeting.l6According to the Requesters, the representative
           o f the patronatos o f the community o f Triunfo de la Cruz refused to sign the
           document related to the pilot activities fearing that the Project would be
           dangerous for the survival o f the community.l7

    17.    The Requesters also mention a consultation workshop in San Juan de Tela, on
           October 18, 2003, but state that this meeting was related to the draft Property
           Law to which the Garifuna people are firmly opposed. The Requesters assert
           that they are aware that issues related to the property law are not within the
           Panel's jurisdiction. However, they complain that, although Bank staff were
           aware during Project preparation that the Government was to enact a Property
           Law, which was to be the centerpiece o f the land titling program, they did not
           mention this law in the legal framework section o f the Project documents. The
           failure to reference the Property Law and the lack o f consultative meetings with
           the affected people have generated confusion within the Garifuna communities,
           because the Project documents, including the IPDP, on the one side, and the
           Property Law on the other, provide for two different sets o f procedures for land
           titling and conflicts resolution.  18


    18.    According to the Requesters, the conflict resolution method provided for inthe
           IPDP, arbitration, not only i s unconstitutional but i s also different from the one
           called for inthe Property Law. Inany event, the Requesters claim that both sets
           o f procedures are inadequate because they do not respond to their social and
           political reality. Inaddition, in the Requesters' view, conflicts that are decades
           old cannot be solved through mechanisms such as the Mesa Regi~nal,'~or


15Request, p. 4.
l6Request, p. 4.
"Request,p.5.
18Request, p. 7.
  Inthis contextthe Requestersrefer to the MesaRegionalas Mesa Interetnica.


                                                 5

           conciliation, settlement and mediation procedures "where the disparities o f the
           interests represented, power elites on the one hand and indigenous peoples on
           the other, cannot but lead to completely unfavorable decisions for the
           indigenous peoples." 2o

    19.    The Requesters fear that under the Project their collective rights will not be
           recognized. They claim that, in preparing the IPDP, the Bank did not consider
           the legal status o f the indigenous populations as well as the procedures to issue
           collective legal titles, as defined in the country's Constitution and legislation.
           The Requesters also claim that the IPDP provides for the issuance of
           regulations to delimit and demarcate indigenous peoples' lands, but these were
           never issued. 21 As a result, when indigenous peoples wish to present a
           territorial claim they would have to follow existing procedures (Reglamento de
           Afectacidn) and file their claim with the National Agrarian Institute (Instituto
           Nacional Agrario - INA). However, according to the Request, the IPDP
           provides for the creation o f an "Indigenous Affairs Unit" (Unidad de Asuntos
           Indigenas) which would be incharge o f carrying out and monitoring the titling
           procedures for indigenous peoples' lands. It i s unclear to the Requesters how
           this latter institution will coordinate its work with INA and which titling
           procedures will be applied. In any event, the Requesters claim that, even if
           these regulations were issued, this would only generate more confusion22among
           the people regardingthe applicable procedures to file territorial claims.

   20.     As an example of this, the Requesters state that the PATH Project coordination
           unit had given OFRANEH a document including a set of rules called
           Methodology to Determine and Measure the Lands to be Titled to the Ethnic
           Communities. OFRANEH heavily criticized this document with Bank staff and
           Project officials, who inturn responded that the document was only a draft. In
           the Requesters' view the lack of clarity as to which documents are official
           confuse the people and feed the impression that those responsible for the
           Project do not have a clear definition o f how to implement it. In addition,
           according to the Requesters, this draft Methodology i s the document providing
           for the creation o f the Mesa Regional23,which i s an institution not recognized
           by OFRANEH because it "has been created in spite of the disagreement of the
           communities, was not elected by the communities, [and] is not an organization
           that represents them.'' The Requesters believe that the Mesa i s composed o f
           people who cannot be considered "other Garvuna representatives" as claimed
           by the Bank, and that itis aliento their own instit~tions.~~




*'Request, p. 7.
  Request, p. 6.
22Request, p. 6.
23The Mesa Regional is a "consultation board" created by the Government under the PATH. See infra,
Section C, 7 36 for more information.
24Request, p. 12.


                                                   6

   21.     According to the Request, the Bank did not comply with OP 4.01 on
           Environmental Assessment because, although the environmental analysis
           addresses the problems affecting the Garifuna land, it does not provide that the
           Garifuna communities may manage or co-manage their land to restore their
           control over the "functional habitat" that they have preserved for centuries.
           Similarly, they claim that the demarcation o f the water limits i s not being
           carried out and they are not aware o f any measures "designed to eliminate or at
           least mitigate the presence o f government institutions inthe management o f the
           protected areas in favor o f the permanent presence o f the members o f the
           communitie~."~~ Request claims that the Project did not take into account
                              The
           the importance o f natural habitats for the livelihood of the Garifuna
           communities, as required by OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats.26According to the
           Request, the management o f these areas i s already given to institutions defined
           in the Project's manual, and in particular to NGOs with no participation of
           indigenous communities provided or required.For example, the Requestclaims
           that the Project Environmental Manual provides that the Serra Rio Tinto Forest
           Reserve, which i s not yet established as protected area, will be managed by the
           NGO known as MOPAWI, a non Garifuna NGO that does not represent the
           interests o f the Garifuna people.27

   22.     The Requesters state that they brought their concerns to the attention o f Bank
           Management inseveral occasions but did not find the solutions proposed by the
           Bank satisfactory. They wrote to the Bank on August 22, 2005, expressingtheir
           concerns about the Project and about Bank violations o f its policy on
           Indigenous Peoples. Management thus invited OFRANEH to a meeting which
           was held on September 21, 2005. According to the Requesters, following this
           meeting,    Management'summarized their discussion in a letter sent to the
           Requesters on October 20, but        misrepresented the Requesters' concerns
           claiming that their complaint were only related to the new Property Law, rather
           than the PATH. After expressing the intention to resort to the Panel,
           OFRANEH states that it received an additional Bank letter inviting OFRANEH
           to a meeting on November 4, 2005, and expressing the willingness to
           understand their preoccupations. However, since representatives o f the Mesa
           Regional were present at this meeting, OFRANEH did not take part in the
           discussion because, as noted above, it does not believe that the members o f the
           Mesa can be considered representatives o fthe Garifuna communities.    28


   23.     The Requesters believe that implementing the Project will endanger the
           survival o f the Garifuna people "because they cannot agree to solutions unless
           they are based on a concrete will to resolve the conflicts and recognize the




25Request, p. 8.
26Request, p. 8.
"Request,p.10.
28Request, p. 12.


                                               7

           rights over the lands that ancestrally belong to them."29They therefore request
           that the Panel recommend an investigation to the Board o f Executive Directors.

   24.     The Panel notes that the above claims may constitute violations by the Bank of
           various provisions o fthe following operational Policies and Procedures:

           OPBP 4.01                         Environmental Assessment
           OPBP 4.04                         Natural Habitats
           O D 4.20                          Indigenous Peoples
           OPBP 13.05                        Project Supervision
           World Bank policy on Disclosure o f Information


C.Management Response

   25.     O n February 9, 2006, Management submittedits Response to the Request.The
           Response includes 7 annexes.

   26.     The Response's section headed "Project Background' includes information
           about the Project's objectives, components3' and status, and offers a summary
           o f Management Response to the claims raised inthe Request for Inspection.

   27.     Status: Management states that, to date and as planned, the SNAP and its
           subcomponents have been created; 140 municipalities are operating SNAP'S
           subsystems; five property registries (out o f eight) operate under the folio real
           system and 23 percent o f the target parcels for Phase Ihave been surveyed
           while 50 percent o f municipal boundaries have been demarcated. Project
           implementation i s however moving slower with respect to the regularization o f
           indigenous lands because, according to Management, "eld                            activities are
           preceded by extensive consultation with cornmunitie~."~'

   28.     Summary:Management states that overall the Response focuses on four main
           points. First, Management claims, as o f the date o f the Response, that no
           implementation activities involving surveying, demarcation, conflict resolution
           and titling have taken place in any Garifuna lands. Management adds that, in
           any event, when these activities occur, appropriate safeguards are built into the
           Project to protect indigenous people's lands. Second, Management maintains
           that "community participation in the Project is voluntary and broad
           participatory mechanisms are operational." Third, the Response states that the
           Project complies with national legislation, including the 2004 Property Law, as
           well as with Bank policies. Fourth, Management claims that it has responded to




29Request, p. 13.
30See Part A (The Project) of this Report for a description o fthe Project, its objectives and components.
31Management Response, 7 16, 17.


                                                      8

        the Requesters' concerns and "remains committed to ongoing meaningful
        consultations that include all interested Garfuna stakeholders." 32

SpecialIssues of the Garifuna Communities

   29.  In a section headed "Special Issues" Management Response presents an
        overview     o f  the history,     socio-economic     conditions,  representative
        organizations and issues involving the Garifuna people.33 In particular,
        Management states that the "Garvuna communities currently face multiple and
        long-standing unresolved land conflicts" among community members, with
        third parties, and with national and local authorities, because, according to
        Management, different types o f ownership (e.g. individual, collective, titled for
        a smaller amount o f land than expected, titled to non-Garifuna people etc.)
        coexist in the region and the titling programs that the National Agrarian
        Institute carried out in the past decades have not been satisfactory to the
        Garifuna people.

   30.  The Response also states that the Bank has supported research inland issues of
        indigenous and afro-Honduran people, among which a land tenure study that
        mappedthe territorial claims o f 25 communities and i s usedby "many Garfuna
        organizations ...as one of the empirical sources for their land claims." In
        addition, the Response states that the Bank has supported institutional building
        o f Afro-descendant people, including Garifuna, in Latina America and a
        specific study on indigenous and Afro-Honduran people inHonduras.       34


Responseto the Requesters'Claims

   3 1, The Response groups the Requesters'             claims under four categories:
        consultations and participatory nature o f the Project; legal framework; protected
        areas and territorial claims; and responsiveness to the Requesters' concerns.

Consultationsand ParticipatoryNatureof the Project

   32.  Management claims that OFRANEH "has participated in ten consultation
        events to date, including during Project preparation and implementation",
        which were related to the Property law, the preparation o f the Project and the
        Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP). Management also claims that
        since the beginning o f Project implementation the Requesters participated only
        to three consultation meetings, although they were invited to seven of them,
        Management states that a "wide range of Garfuna stakeholders", including
        municipal authorities, community leaders, individuals and civil society
        organizations, was consulted for the preparation o f the Social Assessment and
        the IPDP,      through    "15 structured interviews"        and "30    household


32ManagementResponse,7 23-26.
  ManagementResponse,7 18.
33
34ManagementResponse,7 27.


                                            9

         questionnaire^".^^     It also claims that proposals made by affected people during
         consultation meetings were taken into consideration in Project design. The
        Response refers in particular to a workshop "organized by OFRANEH, and
        jnanced by the Bank-funded PAR" which took place on October 25-26, 2003
        in San Juan de Tela, to which 109 Garifuna representatives participated, and
         seven working groups were formed to discuss issues such as indigenous lands,
        protected areas, natural resource management, participation etc. Management
        claims that the Project "incorporated many" o f the recommendations
        formulated inthis workshop.         36


   33.  With respect to the IPDP in particular, Management states that OFRANEH
        participated in two consultation events held inNovember and December 2003.
        According to the Response, since inthe November 26 meetingOFRANEHhad
        requested more time to review the draft IPDP, a second meeting was held on
        December 2. In this meeting, Management claims, the participants agreed to
        consult their communities to appoint representatives to form a Mesa Nacional
        Indigena, a consultation board that would facilitate the participation to the
        Project o f the affected indigenous communities. The Response also states that
        the Government decided, later on, to form two ethnic-based consultationboards
        -inSpanish,MesaRegional-oneforGarifunaandoneforMiskitoindigenous
        peoples. Management claims that at the two above-mentioned meetings no
        major objections to the Project were raised.

   34.  As to the December 2003 Sambo Creek document mentionedinthe Requestfor
        Inspection, according to Management the Requesters have misrepresentedits
        content because the document `)raises the diagnosis of the Garvuna land
        tenure issues presented in the IPDP." Moreover, Management claims that all
        the relevant issues addressed in the document were considered in Project
        preparation and design, while "most of the 12 land tenure issues...are explicitly
        addressed by the Project" and "many of the proposals ...were incorporated in
        the Project design and are currently under irnplementati~n."~~Among        the noted
        12 land tenure issues, the Response mentions lack o f titling o f Garifuna lands
        and lack o f registration o f existing titles; conflicts between land claims raised
        by Garifuna communities and those raisedby others, such as municipalities and
        private landholders; and lack o f participation in the management o f protected
        areas. The Response also lists the Garifuna people's proposals that were
        incorporated into the Project; among them are voluntary community
        participation, prior informed consultations before land regularization, and
        issuance o f communal titles to Garifuna communities ifthey choose to do so.

   35.  Management also emphasizes that community participation in the Project i s
        voluntary and thus land demarcation and titling will occur only in those
        communities willing to participate inthe Project.


35Management Response, 7 31.
36Management Response, 7 32.
37Management Response, T[ 36-39.


                                                10

    36.    Garifuna Mesa Regional: According to Management, the Mesa Regional is a
           consultation board that "includes a broad range of Garllfuna stakeholder^."^^
           This Mesa was formed in2005 following invitations sent by the Government to
           "representatives of a wide range of Garllfuna communities and organizations,
           including Ofraneh, toparticipate in a meeting to establish an inter-institutional
           commission to organize the Mesa Regional". Management states that at a
           meeting held in Trujillo, Colon, on March 15-17, 2005, 112 Garifuna people,
           which included representatives o f 25 communities, members o f patronato~~~,
           municipalities, the Garifuna church organization and organizations representing
           the Garifuna people, established the Mesa Regional de Regularizacidn y
           Resolucidn de Confictos (Regional Board of Regularization and Resolution of
           Conflicts), operating under the principle o f non-exclusion so that all interested
          parties canparticipate and express their views about the Project.

    37.   Management claims that one representative o f OFRANEH was present at the
           Marchmeetingand i s now part o fthe Mesa. This person, however, i s not one o f
           the Requesters. Management also claims that currently the leadership of
           OFRANEH i s under dispute, and the OFRANEH-Re uesters refused to
          participate in the meeting that created the Mesa Regional!               Management does
           not believe, as the Requesters do, that the members o f the Mesa are "outsiders"
          to the communities or "Garllfuna clowns".41 In addition, at the mentioned
          March meeting, the Response notes that "eight communities and twelve
          protected areas were selected by participants as candidatesfor participation
           and demarcation and titling activities under the Project."42 Moreover, aside
           from the Mesa Regional, Management states that Mesas Locales were created
           specifically for each community to work with communities' assemblies so that
           all memberscan participate inthe Project.43

    38.   Management claims that there i s "broad support for the Project", although
          there i s also "diversity of opinions among various Garvuna stakeholders
          regarding the role of the Project in addressing their land




38Management Response, f 42.
39"Grassroot organizations" with legal personality located within the communities whose members are
selectedby community members directly. See Management Response, f 40.
40Management Response, 742-45.
4'Management Response, 7 86.
42Management Response, f 43.
43Management Response, 7 44. Mesa locales have so far been created inthe communities o f Santa Fe, San
Antonio, Sagrelaya, Guadalupe, and Cocalito.
44Management Response, f 46,47.


                                                    11

   LegalFramework

   39.  IPDP and the Property Law: Management emphasizes that the Government
        passed the Property Law after the Bank Board o f Directors had approved the
        Project. However, Management states that, although the Law i s not discussed in
        the Project documents because at the time of Project appraisal and approval it
        was still uncertain whether the law would be passed, the Project design takes it
        into consideration and provides "mechanisms for the continuous flexible
        adaptation of the Project to the new law."45

   40.  The Response also notes that three gaps inthe Honduran legal framework were
        identified during Project preparation, namely the lack o f legislation specifically
        addressing land rights o f indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples, the lack o f a
        parcel-based property registry and the lack o f procedures to demarcate
        protected areas. ``After careful consideration" and discussions about the legal
        situation, Management decided to proceed with the Project "under the existing
        legal and institutional framework, while building into the design specijk
        safeguards" to address the mentioned gaps.46According to the Response, these
        safeguard measures were: a Regulatory Decree issuedby the Supreme Court to
        authorize a parcel-based property registry, and specific safeguards incorporated
        in the Credit Agreement to protect the rights of the indigenous and Afro-
        Honduran people. Among the latter, Management notes the provision to carry
        out an IPDP acceptable to the Bank and the provision that procedures to protect
        the people and consult them must be inplace before demarcation and titling of
        lands adjacent to ethnic lands take place. Management also states that a trigger
        for Phase I1 o f the Land Administration Program i s the "adoption of
        legalhegulatory frameworkfor Indigenous Peoples lands."47

   41.  With respect to the new Property Law, Management found it acceptable and
        determinedthat as the Project safeguards provisions were not in conflict with
        the law, the law and the Project "could be harmonized." Management also
        states that these Project safeguards provide that the Bank must issue its no-
        objection to any updating o f the IPDP, for example with respect to the land
        regularization and conflict resolution procedures, which have to be based on
        meaningful consultations. As to the still un-issued regulations on land
        regularization mentioned by the Requesters, they have yet to be issued because
        a draft document i s currently subject to consultations with indigenous
        communities. Management also claims that this was explained to the
        Requesters ina meetingheldon September21, 2005.48

   42.  Conflict Resolution Mechanisms: To the claim that the Project's conflict
        resolution method, arbitration, i s against the new Property law and generates


45ManagementResponse,7 54.
  Management Response,7 52.
46
47Management Response,7 55.
48Management Response,7 56, 59,60.


                                           12

           confusion among the people, Management responds that the arbitration
           procedures included inthe IPDP are consistent with national law in force at the
           time of Project preparation and are in compliance with OD 4.20. In addition,
           the Response notes that the Mesa Regional was established as a `>participatory
           consultationframework" to "discuss andprovide inputs into the development of
           land regularization procedures and conflict resolution mechanisms under the
           Project." Furthermore, as noted, any change to these procedures i s subject to
           the Bank's no-~bjection.~~

   43.     Management states that the Project recognized that access to justice for
           Garifuna people i s limited, and thus provided for budgetary allocations, within
           the IPDP, to create training programs for local community leaders on national
           law and regulations related to the Project and for conciliators and arbitrators.
           With respect to the territorial claims presented to the Inter-American
           Commission o f Human Rights (IACHR), the Response notes that two o f the
           communities subject o f the claims (Cayos Cochinos and Triunfo de la Cruz)
           were not considered for the Project, and the third, Punta Piedra, was initially
           listed as potential community, but then withdrawn because o f opposition from
           community members. Inany event, Management states that it takes no position
           with respect to these claims before the IACHR."

   44.     Collective and Individual Titling: Management asserts that it has analyzed
           Honduras' legal framework vis-a-vis the issue o f collective versus individual
           titles. The new Property Law guarantees indigenous and Afro-Honduran
           communities `tfull recognition of their communal property rights,,.through
           communal [emphasis added] fee-simple titling (titulacidn y domini0 plen~)."~`
           Management states that the Project does not favor or encourage individual
           titling in the Garifuna communities. Rather, recognizing the importance o f this
           issue and the risk o f outside influence on the people to ask for individual titles,
           the Project established procedures to "protect the rights of             Garijuna
           communities, including their right to choose a tenure regime." Management
           adds that it "endorses the Government'sposition to respect the decisions made
           by the Mesa Regional and individual communities regarding their preferred
           land tenure regime."52

ProtectedAreas and Territorial Claims

   45.     The Response states that the Project was assigned environmental Category B
           and the Environmental Assessment identified among the potential impacts "the
           possible overlap between existing communities (both indigenous and non-
           indigenous) andprotected areas."      As a result, communities may be restricted

~~        ~




49ManagementResponse, 7 67.

  ManagementResponse, 7 72.
  ManagementResponse, 7 68-71.
51
52ManagementResponse, 7 77.
  ManagementResponse, 7 73,74.
53



                                               13

        access to resources in demarcated areas. For this reason a Process Framework
        and Environmental Management Plan was developed. Under the Project, the
        demarcation o f protected areas will occur "only if and when local communities
        agree". According to the Process Framework, co-management o f protected
        areas by agencies, NGOs and communities will be possible, and "strict
        provisions for the recognition and demarcation of land areas in favor of
        indigenous communities" are envisaged for the cases o f overlap between land
        claims and protected areas.54Inaddition, water limits o f protected areas will be
        demarcated on a case by case basis, based on specific circumstances.

   46.  Natural Habitats: According to Management, to protect indigenous peoples
        and in compliance with OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and OD 4.20, the Project
        establishes that: only legally established protected areas are eligible for
        demarcation; no Project field activities will take place in or near a proposed
        protected area; and procedures to protect the interests o f the people must be in
        place before demarcation or titling occur on lands adjacent ethnic lands. For
        example, the Rio Tinto Forest Reserve mentioned inthe Request i s a proposed
        protected area and no project field activity will take place in or near this area.
        Management also states that no protected area was "delivered" to NGOs as
        claimed by the Requesters. Rather, the Project Environmental Assessment
        includes bbacomprehensive inventory of existing and proposed protected areas
        [...] and factual information regarding the organizations involved in the
        management of those areas." The Response claims that the list o f organizations
        "involved in the management of those areas in Project documentsshould not be
        interpreted as a Project proposal or endorsement of those organizations".
        Management adds that "the list reflects a relationship between the Government
        and those organizations working in agivenprotected area."55

   47.  Finally, Management asserts that, because it recognized that if natural habitats
        were titled erroneously this would affect indigenous communities, the Project
        provides for mitigation activities, i.e. exclusion o f proposed protected areas
        from demarcation, and inclusion o f "chance find procedures in the Process
        Framework."56




Responsivenessto the Requesters' Concerns

   48.  Management states that the August 2005 Requesters' letter to the Bank focused
        mainly on the Property Law which i s the responsibility o f the Government. It
        adds, however, that Management invited the Requesters to a meeting on
        September 21, 2005, inTegucigalpa, to clarify their concerns, specifically those
        related to the PATH Project. According to the Response, the minutes o f the


j4ManagementResponse, 7 79.
  ManagementResponse, 7 77,78.
j5

j6ManagementResponse, T[ 84.


                                          14

        meeting clearly show that it was agreed to hold a follow up meeting with the
        Requesters, Government representatives, as well as other representatives o f the
        Garifuna people. Though the Requesters believe that the presence o f other
        Garifuna representatives disrupt the dialogue, Management believes that this
        "broad and open dialogue is appropriate" especially inlight o f the fact that one
        o f the Requesters' concerns relate to the composition o f the Mesa Regional. At
        the follow-up meeting set for November 4, 2005, to which members o f the
        Mesa Regional were to participate, the Requesters didnot attend. 57

  49.   Management believes that it "took action to address the Project-specijk
        concerns expressed by the Requesters and notiJied Ofraneh of these promptly",
        for example with respect to the agreement reached with the Government that
        the communities themselves must decide whether to be part of the Project."
        Management also "has consistently maintained its commitment to meaningful
        consultations, broad participation and open dialogue with all Garvuna
        stakeholders." Management claims that for this reason, on November 18, 2005,
        it wrote to the Requesters proposing again a meeting with them, the
        Government and other Garifuna representatives, but has yet to receive any
        reply.59


E.Eligibility

   50.  The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria
        for an Inspection, as set forth inthe 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and
        the 1999 Clarifications, and recommend whether the matter alleged in the
        Requestshoddbe investigated.

   51.  The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management's Response. The Panel
        Chairperson, Edith Brown Weiss, together with Deputy Executive Secretary
        Peter Lallas and Operations Officer Tatiana Tassoni visited Honduras from
        February 12 to February 17, 2006. Duringtheir visit, the Panel Team met with
        the signatories of the Request for Inspection and members of Garifuna
        communities, Bank staff, national and local authorities, and members o f the
        Project's Mesa Regional. The Panel visited the cities o f Tegucigalpa, L a Ceiba
        and Trujillo and also met with Requesters and other affected people in the
        communities o f Sambo Creek and Guadalupe. The Panel wishes to emphasize
        its appreciation o f the significance o f the Project.

   52.  The Panel is satisfied that the Request meets all o f the eligibility criteria
        provided inthe 1993 Resolutionand Paragraph 9 o f the 1999 Clarifications.



''ManagementResponse,787.
'*ManagementResponse,790.
                     185, 86, 89.
''ManagementResponse,

                                            15

   53.    Duringthe visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties
          under the Resolution to submit a Request for Inspectionto the Inspection Panel.
          The persons who signed the Request live in Project-affected areas, have a
          common interest and common concerns, and reside inthe Borrower's territory,
          as requiredby Paragraph 9(a).

   54.    The Panel notes that the Request "assert[s] in substance that a serious violation
          by the Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have
          material adverse effect upon the requesters as requiredby Paragraph 9(b).
                                                          "



   55.    During the Panel visits, the Requesters expressed serious concerns about the
          implementation o f the Project because they fear that the PATH may ultimately
          lead to the demise o f their collective titles, and thus to the loss o f their ancestral
          lands, their culture and traditions. The Requesters do not oppose actions to
          recognize collective rights to their lands. However, they have significant
          concerns regarding the design and implementation o f this Project in the way it
          affects their claims to their ancestral lands. The Requesters claim that the
          Garifuna communities were not properly consulted in the design and planning
          o f the PATH, including in the development o f the Indigenous Peoples
          Development Plan and in the selection o f the pilot communities where the
          Project would be implementedfirst.

   56.    The Panel notes that there is disagreement as to whether the consultation
          process established under the Project i s by-passing the structures developed
          over time by the Garifuna communities to represent the interests o ftheir people.
          The Requesters state that the Project and the World Bank have not
          meaningfully      consulted    with the communities          and    their legitimate
          representatives and have opted to rely on people who were not chosen by the
          communities to represent their interests. They contend that the Project
          consultation process i s fragmenting and dividing their communities and their
          representative structures, and thus may cause irrevocable harm to their people's
          traditions and culture. Government officials and others the Panel met during its
          visit to Honduras indicated that problems in consultation and representation in
          addressing the needs o f indigenous and ethnic communities in Honduras have
          the potential to inflict significant harm onthose communities.

   57.    The Panel observes that Bank Policy on Indigenous Peoples provides that the
          Bank must ensure "that indigenouspeoples do not suffer adverse effects during
          the development process, particularly from Bank-Jnanced projects, and that
          they receive culturally compatible social and economic beneJts."60 The Panel
          observes that the Requesters believe that the views and preferences o f the
          Garifuna communities have not been, and will not be, properly taken into
          consideration indecisions regarding land titling, demarcation of land rights and
          other matters o f critical interest to the Garifuna people. They allege that this i s



6oOD 4.20 (September 1991) IndigenousPeoples, paragraph6.


                                               16

    inviolation of ILO Convention 169 and is not incompliance withthe Policy on
    Indigenous Peoples. The Panel found significant differences o f opinion as to
    whether the Bank has followed, or is following, its own policies and procedures
    on these matters and whether the Project will or may have negative effects on
    the interests o f the Garifuna.

58. O f particular concern to the Inspection Panel i s the Requesters' assertion that
    the Project has a high potential to undermine their claims to ancestral lands
    before national and international bodies. Ownership o f these lands i s crucial for
    the Garifunas' economic survival and the maintenance of existing patterns of
    social organization. They have forcefully representedto the Panel that, in their
    view, the Project, if implemented as designed, will not only affect their land
    claims but could make any decisions in other bodies in favor o f the Garifuna
    people largely irrelevant and cause them irreparable harm.

59. The Panel also notes that the Requesters claim that the arbitration proposed as
    dispute settlement procedures for indigenous peoples' land disputes conflicts
    with the constitution and laws o f Honduras, and therefore lacks legitimacy.
    According to the Requesters, the means for resolving disputesunder the Project
    do not consider that there i s an unequal power relationship between the
    Garifuna people and the country's power elites, which affects the ability o f the
    people to have access to justice. The Requesters fear that the Project will
    ultimately lead to the recognition o f individual claims on Garifuna lands while
    the Garifuna communitieswant to retaincollective title.

60. Management, as indicated in its Response, believes that the consultation
    process has beenopen and conducted in accordance with Bank policies. It also
    contends that the dispute settlement mechanisms envisaged under the Project
    are consistent with local legislation and enable proper consideration o f the
    views o fthe Garifuna people.

61. The Panel finds that the Requesters have alleged that the World Bank actions
    constitute a violation o f Bank policies and procedures on indigenous peoples,
    natural habitats, environmental assessment and supervision and that these
    actions have had or could have a significant adverse effect on the Requesters'
    rights, as required by Paragraph 9(b). The Panel notes the need for factual
    inquiry into the Requesters' claims that the Bank violated its own operational
    policies and procedures.

62. The Panel confirmed that the World Bank has been aware o f concerns from
    OFRANEH and the Garifuna communities they represent and their fear that
    their collective titles wouldnot berecognized underthe PATH.

63. The Panel is therefore satisfied that the Request "does assert that the subject
    matter has been brought to Management's attention and that, in the
    Requesters' view, Management hasfailed to respond adequately demonstrating



                                      17

            that it has followed' or is taking steps to follow the Bank's policies and
            procedures. " Hence, the Requestmeets the requiremento f Paragraph 9(c).

    64.     The Panel notes that the subject matter of the Request is not related to
            procurement,as requiredby Paragraph9(d).

    65.     The Credit financing the Project was approved by the Board o f Executive
            Directors on February 26, 2004. The expected closing date of the PATH i s
            April 30,2008. Whenthe Request was filed, January 3,2006, about 69% ofthe
            Credit had been disbursed. The Request therefore satisfies the requirement in
            Paragraph 9(e) that the related Credit has not been closed or substantially
            disbursed.61

    66.     Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the
            subject matter o f the Request. Therefore, the Requestsatisfies Paragraph 9(f).

    67.     The Requesters and other affected persons, Management's Response, the
            Panel's visit to Honduras, interviewswith Government officials and Bank staff,
            confirmed that there are sharply differing views on the issues raised in the
            Request for Inspection. In order to ascertain compliance or lack thereof with
            Bank policies and procedures in the design and implementation o f the
            Honduras: Land Administration Project, the Panel must conduct an appropriate
            review o f all relevant facts and applicable policies and procedures. The Panel
            recognizes the importance o f the Project, and notes that the investigation would
            be directed to the discrete issues raised by the Request.


    F. Conclusions

    68.     The Requesters and the Request meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
            Resolution that established the Inspection Panel and the 1999 Clarifications.
            The Request and Management Response contain conflicting assertions and
            interpretations about the issues, the facts, and compliance with Bank policies
            andprocedures.

    69.     In light of the foregoing, the Panel recommends that an investigation be
            conducted.




61According to the Resolutionthat established the Panel, "this will be deemed to be the case when at least
ninety-five percent of the loanproceeds have been disbursed." Footnote to Paragraph 14 (c).


                                                    18

Some of the below listed Annexes to the Request and Management Response are
herein attached respectively to the Request and Management Response. The
remainder of the below listed Annexes are available upon request to the Executive
Secretary of the InspectionPanel.

                  Annexes inthe Request(as listedinthe Request)

Annex 1:      Comunicado Publico, respecto a1PATH (Public communication regarding
              the PATH) (attached)
Annex 2:      DenunciaOfranehviolaciones DO 4.20 (con anexos) del 22 agosto del
              2005 (Ofraneh's complaint regarding violations of OD 4.20 (with
              annexes) of August 22,2005) (attachedwith second annex)
Annex 3:      CartaBanco Mundial 14 de septiembredel 2005 (World Bank letter of
              September 14,2005) (attachedas Annex 4.1 of ManagementResponse)
Annex 4:      MinutaReunion Ofraneh-Banco Mundialdel21de septiembredel2005
              (Minutesof Ofraneh-World Bank meeting of September 21,2005)
              (attached)
Annex 5:      Carta Banco Mundialdel 20 de octubre del 2005 (World Bank letter of
              October 20,2005) (attached as Annex 4.4 of Management Response)
Annex 6:      Carta Ofraneh del 25 de octubre del 2005 (Ofraneh letter of October 25,
              2005) ) (attached)
Annex 7:      Carta Banco Mundial del 27 de octubre del 2005 (World Bank letter o f
              October 27,2005) (attachedas Annex 4.6 of Management Response)
Annex 8:      Carta Ofraneh del 31 de octubre del 2005 (Ofraneh letter of October 31,
              2005) (attached)
Annex 9:      Email Ofraneh del 3 de noviembre del 2005 (Ofraneh e-mail of
              November 3,2005) (attached)
Annex 10:     Carta Ofraneh del 4 de noviembre del 2005 (Ofraneh letter ofNovember
              4,2005) (attached)
Annex 11:     Carta Banco Mundial del 18 de noviembre del 2005 (World Bank letter of
              November 18,2005) (attached as Annex 4.9 o f Management Response)
Annex 12:     Certificaciones deposit0 peticiones a la Comisidn Interamericana de
              Derechos Humanos (Certificates of submittal o f petitions to the Inter-
              American Commission on HumanRights) (attached)
Annex 13:     Constanciasy Puntos de Actas de las comunidades Garifunas, presentando
              suposicionrespecto a1PATH (Certificates and points inminutes ofthe
              Garifuna communities, stating their positionregarding the PATH)


                          Annexes inManagementResponse

Annex 1: Claims and Responses (attached)

Annex 2: ChronologyofKey ProjectPreparationand ImplementationEvents

Annex 2.1:    Chronology o f events from January 2003 to November 2005 (attached)



                                           19

Annex 2.2:   Consultation events onthe design of a project to integratethe National
             Registry and Cadastral System(SINREC), January-February2003
Annex 2.3:   Aide Memoire of consultation betweenrepresentativesfrom civil society
             and PAAR Project, August 26,2003
Annex 2.4:   Consultation event on draft Property Law, October 8,2003
Annex 2.5:   Consultation workshop organizedby Ofraneh, and financed by PAAR
             Project, San Juan, Tela, October 25-26,2003
Annex 2.6:   Aide Memoire of meetingbetweenrepresentativesfrom Ofranehand
             members ofNational Congress, November 12,2003
Annex 2.7:   Firstroundof consultations onthe Indigenous PeoplesDevelopment Plan
             and Environmental Assessment, November 26,2003 (attached)
Annex 2.8:   Secondround of consultations on the Indigenous PeoplesDevelopment
             Plan and Environmental Assessment, December2,2003 (attached)
Annex 2.9:   Aide Memoire of meetingbetweenthe Vice-presidentof Ofranehand
             PATH staff, January 13, 2005 (attached)
Annex 2.10:  Reportof disseminationactivities conductedby PATH staff inGarifuna
             areas, January 2005
Annex 2.11: Invitationand minutesofworking sessionto integrate the provisional
             Inter-Institutional Commissionfor the demarcation andtitling of Garifuna
             communities, February 24,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.12:  Minutesofthe creation oftheMesa Regional de Regularizacidny
             Resolucidn de Conjlictos de Atldntida y Coldn, and preliminary selection
             of 8 communities and 12protected areas to participate inthe Project,
             March 15-17,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.13:  Public statement againstPATH issuedby Ofraneh, April 28, 2005
Annex 2.14:  MinutesoftheMesa Regional's meeting inSangrelaya, April 29,2005
             (attached)
Annex 2.15:  Minutes ofthe meetingbetweenmembersofMesa Regional and
             representativesfrom Ofraneh, June 9,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.16:  List of participants integratingthe working commission ofMesa Regional
             andthe three Mesas Locales of Guadalupe, Cocalito, and Sangrelaya, June
             9,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.17:  PATHnewsletterreporting Project activities inMiskito and Garifuna
             communities,April-July, 2005
Annex 2.18:  Letter sent to the World Bank by Ofraneh, August 2005
Annex 2.19: Minutesof the meeting betweenMesa Regional and World Bank staff,
             September 22,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.20:  Minutesofthe meetingbetweenMesa Regional andWorld Bankstaff,
             November 4,2005 (attached)
Annex 2.21: Special minutes issuedby Mesa Regional, November 4,2005
Annex 2.22: Letter from the World Bank to the Mesa Regional as a follow-up to the
             November 4 meeting, November 11,2005

Annex 3: OfranehStatementsRegardingTheir InternalDispute




                                           20

Annex 3.1:    Notification from Ofraneh interdicting Mr.Angel Amilcar Coldnfrom
              acting as the Organization's GeneralCoordinator, March4, 2005
              (attached)
Annex 3.2:    Press release from Ofraneh signed by Mr.Angel Amilcar Colon declaring
              invalidthe extra-ordinary assembly of March23,2005 (attached)

Annex 4: CorrespondenceBetweenRequestersand BankManagement(Augustto
November2005)

Annex 4.1:    Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, September 14, 2005 (attached)
Annex 4.2:    MinutesofmeetinginTegucigalpa betweenWorld Bank staff and
              Ofraneh representatives,September 21,2005 (attachedas Annex 4 ofthe
              Request)
Annex 4.3:    MinutesofmeetingbetweenMesaRegional and World Bank staff inLa
              Ceiba, September 22,2005
Annex 4.4:    Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, October 20, 2005 (attached)
Annex 4.5:    Letter from Ofranehto the World Bank, October 25, 2005 (attached as
              Annex 6 of the Request)
Annex 4.6:    Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, October 27, 2005 (attached)
Annex 4.7:    E-mailfrom Ofranehto the World Bank, November 3,2005 (attached as
              Annex 9 o fthe Request)
Annex 4.8:    Letter from Ofranehto the World Bank, November 6,2005 (attached as
              Annex 10 of the Request)
Annex 4.9:    Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, November 18,2005 (attached)

Annex 5: Minutesof Internal BankManagementMeeting,November 18,2005

Annex 6: Selected ProjectSupervisionDocuments

Annex 6.1:    Management Letter following Project supervision missions, September
              19-23 and October 11-15,2005
Annex 6.2:    Management Letter following a Project supervision mission, November 2-
              4,2005

Annex 7: UnofficialEnglishTranslationof Title V, Chapter111,and Arts. 110 and 111of
HondurasPropertyLaw (No. 82-2004)

Map 1 IBRDNo. 34485 "HondurasLandAdministrationProject,GarifunaCommunities
      -
and RelatedSites_(attached)




                                          21


      ANNEX I

REQUESTFOR INSPECTION


Request for Inspection

To: The Executive Secretary
The Inspection Panel
1818 HSt. N W Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.

We, the Fraternal Black Organization o f Honduras (Organizacidn Fraternal Negra
Honduras     - Ofraneh) with headquarters in L a Ceiba (Honduras), 2"dfloor Libreria el
Trebol, Barrio ElCentro, telefax +(504)443-2492 and e-mail ofraneh@laceiba.com,
with attorneys Gianluca Gaia and Maurizio De Martino, o fthe Naples Bar Association
with offices inNaples (Italy) invia Posillipo, 176/3, Telefax 39.081.5754535, e-mail
addresses gaiakan@hahoo.it      and maodema@hotmail.com with the attached power o f
attorney, who represent the Garifuna communities o f Honduras (we underline that
Ofraneh is not a N o n Governmental Organization but rather a Federation the members
of which are elected every three years by an assembly o fthe Garifuna people who grant
them the representation of the people in accordance with the provisions o f the
organization's bylaws) declare the following:

1) World Bank Financed Project that is the Subject of the Request
The Honduras Land Management Program (Programade Administracidn de Tierraen
Honduras -PATH), funded bythe World Bank, is a project designed to guarantee the
necessary legal security and stability o f the land assets to resolve the endemic problem
connected to the same (only 30% o f the country's lands are registered and barely one
thirdhas a cadastral reference.) The PATHcontemplates a decentralized system o freal
estate property management (regularization, titling, cadastre, registration in folios)
comprising public and private entites) to generate, register and link public and private
information, on transactions with urban and rural plots, in an accessible, efficient and
updated manner inthe Project areas.

Inthe aspect more closely related to the parties hereby representedthe Project
establishes that: with reference to properties and/or holdings backed up by ancestral
certifications or titles these are grouped inthe category o f private property. Once the
rightsof the communities have been recognizedand recorded inthe property registry
these enjoy all the rights applicable to full ownership.

Inconnectionwith indigenous property, it contemplates the regularization o fthe
ancestral lands in favor o f the various indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples
guaranteeing fully the rights o f ownership over the same, recognizing communal and/or
individual property (according to the will o f each o f the peoples) by recording the
ownership in the corresponding registers, with the direct participation o f the
communities inthe legalization process, so that they may enjoy the rights o f full
ownership.

The Word Bank in its reuort number 27604 HO published on Januarv 20,2004,
underlines that the project fosters OD 4.20 since it supports the demarcation and titling
of ancestral indigenous and Afro-Honduran lands to these peoples. The same report '
indicates that, to comply with OD 4.20, an Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP)
has been prepared by the Government. The document goes on to clarify that, based on
the informed participation of the peoples involved, it will attempt to ensure that the

Indigenous Peoples are not adversely affected by the Project and that they receive
culturally compatible social and economic benefits.

2) Applicable OperationalPolicies
On September 17, 1991, based on its experience with the document OMS 2.34 and the
evolution of the international standards related to the treatment of indigenous peoples,
the World Bank issued OperationalDirective 4.20 as a guideline for its operating staff.
The directive offers policy guidelines to ensure that the indigenous peoples benefit from
development projects. OD 4.20 includes broad criteria definitions, as well as a
recognition o f the international standards on indigenous peoples rights, with emphasis
on cultural and participatory strategies for an appropriate development. Its objective is
to ensure that the development process promotes the respect to their dignity, human
rightsand cultural uniqueness. Specifically, the core objective o f this directive is to
ensure that the indigenouspeoples suffer no adverse effects duringthe development
process and receive social and economic benefits that are culturally compatible
(paragraph 6).

Inthe case o f interest to us,the Bank uses other policies relatedto the territory or
functional habitat o f the Garifuna people o f Honduras: OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment) that focuses on the important environmental issues o f a project and OP
4.04 (Natural Habitats) with which the Bank supports the protection, maintenance and
rehabilitationo f the natural habitats and their functions.

As from July 1,2005 OperationalPolicy 4.10 and Bank Procedural Standard BP 4.10
have become effective. Inthis respect, we point out that we have considered it
convenient to also make a brief reference to said policies and procedures.

3) These policies have been designed and are frequently reviewed so that the Bank, in
executing its projects, respects the internationalrules and standards designed to
safeguard the rights of indigenous peoples, as stipulated in international agreements
(Convention 169 o f the International Labor Organization; Convention on Biological
Diversity, Draft United Nations Declarationon the Rightso f Indigenous Peoples, Draft
American Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.)

OnJuly 30, 1994 with Decree 26-94, Hondurasratified the International Labor
Organization's Convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples. In connection with
lands, the Convention contains (articles 13 to 19) a series o f provisions recognizingthe
rightso fthe peoples o freference to the ownership and tenure ofthe lands they
traditionally occupy, as well as the special protection o f the natural resources existing in
said land. On July 31, 1995 o f the same year [sic] Honduras also ratified the Convention
on Biological Diversity.

These Conventions define, recognize and safeguard legal rules related to the interests o f
the Garifuna people that are designed to obtaining the conservation o f their ancestral
territory and the natural resources found inthe same inorder to sustain their livelihood
and sustainable development needs, within a framework o f respect for the culture and
Cosmo vision pertaining to this people. Furthermore, the Garifunas aspire to the
recognition o f all their special rights, both collective and individual. Inthe paragraph
relatingto the actual and potential damages caused by the Project there i s extensive
clarification o fthe dimension o f the issues and the territorial claims o f the communities

throughan account ofthe backgroundofthe titling programsofthe Garifuna
 community.

 We may anticipatehere that the Garifunacommunities havenot beensatisfiedby the
titling programsthat havetaken place successively at various times. Saidprograms have
produced:areductionoftheir functionalhabitat, the legitimationof landinvasions, the
 consequentproblemof the presenceof nonindigenous persons inthe lands assignedto
the indigenouspeoples.Therefore, the peoples, accompaniedbythe requesting
 organization, have initiateda process seekingto obtaintitle to the areas claimedand
untitledby the state. To that end, the Ofranehandthe affected communities have
 submittedthree petitionsto the Inter-AmericanCommissiononHumanRights
 (IACHR) all of them relatedto the violation oftheir territorial rights, besidescurrently
conductinglobbyingto advocate for a reformofthe PropertyLaw Decree 84 of 2000.
The communitiesdemandthat the titling processbe carriedout with ina generallegal
frameworkinaccordance with the internationalstandards that safeguardtheir special
rights.They also demand an active participationfor the membersof the communities
not only through consultationover predefined materialsbutrather by presenting
 legislativeand regulatoryproposalsincludingadministrativematters andproposalsfor
conflict resolutionarrangements.

All ofthe above means that the communities want to be active subjects inthe decision
makingover their future as a people. Facedwith the dangersrepresentedby the free
marketfor land, the Garifunapeoplehave maintainedthe system of community
ownership ofthe territories.

4) Infringementof OperationalPolicies

Unfortunately, the Wold Bank hasnot taken into account the rightsand interestsofthe
Garifunapeople and, in spite of what is providedin its operationalmanuals, has
violated its ownpoliciesinthe followingway:

4.1) INFRINGEMENT OF THERIGHT TO CONSULTATION

The Bankhas infringedthe provisionscontained inparagraph8 and emphasized in
paragraphs 14 a) and c) of OD 4.20 that provide:

 8. TheBank'spolicy is that the strategyfor addressing the issuespertaining to
indigenouspeoples must be based on the informedpartic@ation of the indigenous
people themselves.Thus,identihim local w eferences through direct consultation,
incorporation of indigenousknowledge into project approaches,and auuropriate early
use of experiencedspecialists are core activities for anv project that affects indigenous
peoples and their rights to natural and economic resources.

 14.Prerequisites of a successful developmentplanfor indigenouspeoples are as
follows:
(a) The kev step inproject design is the preparation of a culturallv auuropriate
development plan based on full consideration of the options preferred by the indigenous
people affected bv theproject.
(4Local    patterns of social organization, religious beliefs, and resource use should be
taken into account in theplan's design.

We can assert without doubt that the Bank's experts havenever carriedout consultation
programs in advance ofthe draftingofthe IndigenousDevelopmentPlan. SuchPlan, as
well as the EnvironmentalPlanwere deliveredto the organization little beforethe
holdingofthe only consultationmeetingregardingthe PATHandthe IPDP.At that
time, at a meetinginthe Garifunacommunityof SamboCreekon December 17, 18 and
19, 2003, the representatives of all of the Garifunacommunities of Honduras signeda
document that presenteda firm rejection of everythingthat was established inthe IPDP,
while proposingseveral alternatives. However, the Bank didnot take into account any
of those proposals.None of those suggestions or criticismsthat addressedthe
inconsistenciesinthe applicationofthe titling arrangementscontemplatedby the
projectto the legalparticularitythat the Garifunapeoplerepresentwere considered.

Summarizing,none of the options preferredby the peoples involvedwere considered,
nor the local social organizationpatternswith the election of the collectiveholding
system and the repercussionsinterms of exclusionfrom development inthe case of
openingup to the system of individualownership of land.

On October 18, 2003, two monthsafter the above mentionedmeeting, a consultation
workshop was heldin San Juan, Tella on the draft of what would becomeDecree 84 -
2000 PropertyLaw.At that time, the representatives ofthe communities came out
vocally against the issuance of said Law for reasons that are made clear by a readingof
the attached documents that were draftedinthe consultationand lobbyingphasebythe
undersigned and with the support ofconsultations with internationalexperts and
institutions.

Inthis respect, we indicatethat the Requestersare well awarethat saidLaw is anact of
the Government, outside thejurisdiction of the Panel's staff, but it should be notedthat
the same staff already knew that the Governmentwas aboutto issue shortly a landlaw
that wouldbe a keyto the future landtitling programs, besidesalreadyknowingofthe
oppositionofthe Garifunapeopleto said Law.However,inspite ofknowingthat the
PropertyLaw wouldbecomethe statutoryframework for the PATHproject,they made
no mentionof that partrelatingto the statutoryframeworkthat would guide the project.
This omissionandthe lack of interventionthroughsuccessivesocializationmeetings,
seems absurdandhas generatedconfusion across the Garifunacommunities.They find
themselves faced with two differentarrangements to implementthe titling procedures
and conflictresolution:the PATHManual with the IndigenousDevelopmentPlanand
the Bankrules and what is mandatedby the PropertyLaw.Besides, bothinstruments
are inadequatefrom the point of view ofthe Garifunapeopleandpresentvoids. Merely
as an example, we indicatethat one of the PATH regulationsthat are being
disseminatedare consideredto be simply drafts inthe words ofthe Bank's staff
themselves; the consultationmeetingswith the pilot communitiesare carriedout
without evengivingthe interestedparties a brochureexplainingthe Project(the
Garifunapopulationis furtheredbased on an oral culturaltraditionand itwouldhave
beenappropriateto holdpreventivemeetings inthe communitiesinaccordance with
such a culturalpattern.)

Inthe PATHconsultation, carriedout inTrujillo inApril 2005, inwhichthe project's
pilot communities and protectedareaswere selected, the communityrepresentativesthat
hadbeeninvitedto the meetingwere not given explanatorymaterials.At that time, Mr.

Angel Castro, invited as President o f the Patronato (foundation) o f the Garifuna
community of Triunfo de la Cruz refused to sign a document with which the
government officials sought consensus on the application o f said plans inthe Garifuna
communities.

The President o f the Patronato o f Triunfo de la Cruz, realizing the dangers for the
survival o f his people and the damages that the application o f the arrangements
contemplated in the Bank's Project would entail, left the meeting and decided to refrain
from attending further meetings on the same subject. H e was supported inhis decision
by all the members o fthe community he representsand, later, by allthe representatives
o f several communities.

We finally emphasize that the Bank's staff has never deliveredto the members o f the
communities the documents, information and training requiredto be informed o f the
Project's execution arrangements. Likewise, the Requesting organization has never
received copy of key documents such as the Loan Agreement between the World Bank
and the Government o f Honduras. Inspite o f this further violation to the rightto
consultation and informed participation inthe Project the Requesters have gathered
sufficient information on which to base this Request as will be seen from the following
paragraphs.

For the above reasons the World Bank has also infringed the provisions contained in
paragraphs 6; 10; 11; 12 and 15 o f OperationalPolicy 4.10. It has been established
without auestion that there is no support for the proiect from the Garifuna people.

OP 4.10 states that "the World Bank pays special attention to the social assessment and
to the minutes and the resulto fthe urevious, free and informed consultations with the
affected indigenous communities, as a basis to determine if said support exists. The
Bank does not pursue the processing o f the proiect if it i s unable to determine the
existence o f said support."

4.2 INFRINGEMENT OF PARAGRAPH 15 OF OD 4.20

Furthermore, the Bank has violated the provisions o f OMS 2.34 paragraph 5 and OD
4.20 paragraph 15 a) and c) and paragraph 9 o f OD 4.20 that are reported below.

We underline that the Bank expressed that it would not provide assistance for any
development activity that knowingly entails the invasion o f safeguarded territories or
lands (OMS 2.34; paragraph 5 OD 4.20 paragraph 15 a) and c),

Paragraph 15
(a) Legal Framework. Theplan should contain an assessment of (i) the legal status of       ,
the groups covered bv this OD,as reflected in the country's constitution, legislation,
and subsidiarv legislation (regulations, administrative orders, etc.): and (iii the abilitv
ofsuch groups to obtain access to and effectivelv use the legal system to defend their
rights. Particular attention should be given to the rights of indigenouspeoples to use
and developthe lands that they occupy, to beprotected against illegal intruders, and to
have access to natural resources (such asforests, wildlife, and water) vital to their
subsistenceand reproduction.

(c) Land Tenure. When local legislation needs strengthening,the Bank should offer to
advise and assist the borrower in establishinglegal recognition of the customary or
traditional land tenuresystems of indigenouspeoples. Wherethe traditional lands of
indigenouspeoples have been brought by law into the domain of the state and where it
is inappropriate to convert traditional rights into those of legal ownership, alternative
arrangements should be implemented to grant long-term, renewable rights of
custodianship and use to indigenouspeoples. Thesesteps should be taken before the
initiation of other planning steps that may be contingent on recognized land titles.

9. The borrower, through afull range ofpositive actions must ensure that indigenous
people benefitporn development investments.

Appraisal teams should be satisfied that indigenouspeople haveparticipated
meaning$&       in the development of theplan as described inpara. 14.It isparticularly
important to appraiseproposalsfor regularizing land access and use.

The concrete violation becomes effective inthe circumstance that, as we have already
pointed out inthe previous paragraph, [in] the design o f the IPDP no consideration has
been given to the legal status o fthe groups comprised by this Operational Directive, as
reflected inthe country's constitution, main legislation and subsidiary legislation
(regulations, administrative orders, etc.). The Indigenous People Development Plan in
no way takes into account the existing legislation on indigenous people and the legal
procedures for collective titling.

Ineffect, the Indigenous Development Planprovides that the legalpamework
contemplates the issuance of rules to develop the legalfiamework for theprotection of
indigenouspeoples; additionally to instructionsfor the delimitation and demarcation of
ancestral land holdings (page 3 o fthe IPDP).

Inthis respect we clarify that never, since the release o fthe IPDP, have rulesbeen
developed in connection with the demarcation and delimitation o f the areas claimed by
the indigenous peoples which would, therefore, follow the procedure contemplated in
the Affectation Rules addressing their expansion requests and their claims to the
Instituto Nacional Agrario (National Land Institute.) The IPDP does, however,
contemplate (see page 12 o f the IPDP) the creation o f an Indigenous Affairs Unitwith
as the institution that will be responsible for carrying out and monitoring the procedure
of indigenous people land titling. We do not understand how this later institution will
coordinate its work with the Instituto Nacional Agrario and which will be the titling
procedure to be applied.

Inany case, the issuance ofregulations would only contribute to originating a lack of
clarity inthe applicable rules to the detriment o f the claim o f the indigenous peoples. In
this respect, we point out that the CoordinationUnito fthe PATHProject hadprovided
OFRANEHwith a set o frulescalled Methodology to Determine and Measure the Lands
to be Titled to the Ethnic Communities -a document drafted by the PATH'SProject
CoordinationUnit.After a claim was presented to the World Bank where that document
was severely criticized, the representatives of the W.B. and members o f the P A T H
clarified that it was merely a draft. This type o f behavior increases the confusion o f the
indigenous peoples and fosters the ideathat those who are coordinatingthe Project's

   execution lack a clear and defined   vision o f how they will execute a project o f such a
   magnitude and that has an essential importance for the survival o f the Garifuna people.
   This circumstance raises concerns especially with regards to possible errors inthe
   assessment of the negative long term effects over the Garifuna peoples involved inthe
   project.

   The above mentioned lack o f regulatory clarity escalates to chaos when a review i s
   made o f the analysis o f the IPDP's legal framework (page 6 o f the IPDP). Surprisingly,
   this manual does not contemplate the PropertyLawthat, by establishingthe
   mechanisms for the titling o fthe areas occupied by indigenous peoples and conflict
   resolution arrangements, stands out as the fundamental legal pillar.

   W e take this opportunity to clarify that the Garifuna people o f Honduras i s well aware
   that such law is an act by the Government and as such falls outside the Panel's
  jurisdiction, but at the same time, logic indicates that it is a duty o fthe financial
   institution to establish the regulatory elements o f such an important titling project in
   coordination with the legislation inforce in the country.

   The lack o f attention and coordination on the part o f the Bank and the borrower has
  translated into the development o f two parallel regulations that oppose one another (the
   Bank's operating manuals and rules and the Government's legislation.)

  As an example we indicatethat the IPDPprovides for arbitration as the arrangement for
  the resolution of the conflicts that pertain to the holding o f land by indigenous peoples
   (page 17 o fthe IPDP); such solution, that we consider unconstitutional insofar as it
   contemplates a single legal instance, is different from the one included inthe Property
  L a w in its Title VI articles 110 and 111. Which procedure will be applied? Furthermore,
   it should be noted that the Garifuna people already expressed duringthe consultation
  phase their firm rejection of the conflict resolution mechanisms proposed by the PATH.
  We are concerned because conflict resolution instances are being proposed (see page 12
  o f the IPDP) that do not correspond to the social and political reality o f the members o f
  the communities; you cannot propose to resolve conflicts that date back to several
  decades by means o f Interethnic Boards or Conciliation, Settlement or Mediation
  Procedures, where the disparities o f the interests represented, power elites on the one
  hand and indigenous peoples on the other, cannot but lead to completely unfavorable
  decisions for the indigenous peoples.

  The PATH, instead o f standing out as a project inthe forefront o f land titling for the
  protection granted to the indigenouspeoples involved, rather affects the path of said
  peoples towards the recognition o f their territorial rightsto the extent that it generates
  confusion regardingthe titling procedures and the applicable legislation, the institutions
  responsible for granting titles and the instances and procedures designated to solve the
  conflicts.

  On the other hand, we underline that indrafting the Project's IPDP, no account has been
  taken o f the real ability of the indigenous and black peoples to obtain access to the legal
' system and use it effectively to defend their rights.N o mention is made o f any study
  establishing the level of access o f the Garifuna people to the domestic legal system.
  Besides, no consideration was given to the circumstance that the impossibility for the
  Garifuna o f obtainingjustice inconnection with their territorial claims through the local

court system, has forced them to resort to international instances as a last attempt to
solve their problems. In October 2003, i.e. before the P A T Hwas disseminated in Sambo
Creek, the Ofraneh representing the Garifuna peoples of Honduras presentedto the
Inter-American Commission on Human RightsCommission a petition, denouncing the
violation o f their territorial rights by the Government o f Honduras and asking for the
recognition of the territory they claim. The Commission divided the petition into three
cases, registering them under numbers 1118/03 Garifuna Community o f Punta Piedra
vs. the Government o fHonduras; 1119/03 Garifuna Community o f Cayos Cochinos vs.
the Government o f Honduras; 906/03 Garifuna Community o f Triunfo de la Cruz vs.
the Government o f Honduras. On October 18, 2005 a public hearingwas held at the
venue o f the Inter-American Commission on Human Rightsfocusing on the
admissibility o f petition number 906.

After the hearing a petition was filed for a precautionary measure with the purpose o f
freezing any transactions involving the lands beingclaimed, in connection with the
Garifuna communities settled inthe zone o fBahia de Tela.Insaid document, as well as
inthe hearing, the Honorable Commissionwas made aware o fthe potentialdamages to
the procedure o f expansion. regularizationand territorial vindication (use and
exuloitation of the natural resources existing inthe territory) that the execution o f the
PATHentails. However, none o fthe people responsible for the Project has reacted to
these circumstances.

For the above reasons, the World Bank has also violated the provisions contained in
paragraphs 5, 16 and 17 o f Ouerational Policy 4.10.

4.3) INFRINGEMENT OF OP 4.01

Although in their Environmental Assessment Operating Manual the World Bank experts
recognize the issues that affect the tenure o f land by the Garifuna people, especially in
connection with the circumstance o f the overlapping between protected areas and
territories claimed by the communities no hypothesis are set forth on the development
of management arrangements or, at least, o f co-management that would restore to the
Garifuna the power on their functional habitat that they themselves have preserved for
centuries. The demarcation o f the water limits i s not being carried out and we have no
knowledge of measures designed to eliminate or at least mitigate the presence o f
government institutions in the management o f the protected areas infavor o f the
permanent presence o fthe members o f the communities. Instead, almost all o f the
NGOs and the institutions that inthe PATHmanual appear as responsible for the
management o fthe protected areas do not contemplate the presence o f indigenous
elements and are not in line with the Cosmo vision o f said peoples. We refer to
paragraph 7 for an analysis o f the overlapping between claimed territories and
supposedly protected areas, mentioning as an example the issues arising from the
protected area Sierra Ri6 Tinto.

4.4) INFHNGEMENT OF OP 4.04

Finally, we underline that the PATHhas not taken into account the importance o f the
natural habitats and their inter-relation with the Garifuna communities that occupy said
habitats.

5) Damage suffered by the Garifuna people
The damage suffered by the Garifuna people is materialized inthe current and potential
damage entailed by the PATH to pursue the process o f vindication and recognition o f
the territory ofthe Garifuna people, or inother termsthe claims relatingto their
territorial riEhts.The further potential damage is materialized inthe serious risk o f
atomization of the community's collective title in favor o f individual titles, contrary to
the choise o f a preferred system o f land tenure made by the whole o f the Garifuna
people.
We consider that the action and failure to act that results from all o f the above i s the
Bank's responsibility: the causality link i s based on the circumstance that had the WB
not implemented said plan the communities would not suffer and would not be exposed
to the above mentioned damages and would continue pursuing;their claim process.

To be able t o understand the magnitude and the foundation o fthe damage implied inthe
execution of the PATH, it i s necessary to resort, even briefly, to the history of the
Garifuna people and their fight for the defense and recognition o f their rights and their
territory.

The historical background has demonstrated the inability o f the Government o f
Honduras to implement a legal system designed to effectively safeguard the Garifuna
people.

The socio-genesis of the Garifuna people dates back to the mid 17thCentury when the
survivors o f a shipwreck loaded with Africans arrived to the island o f Saint Vincent
where theyjoined the Kalinaku indigenous people.

Due to the frequent struggles against the successive invaders, the Garifuna, considered a
threat to the colonial system, were displaced to the island o f Roatan.

Having arrived inRoatan in 1797, the Spanish Mayor Ramon de Anguiano envisaged
the opportunity of repopulating the city o f Trujillo, which had remained uninhabited
from 1643 to 1780, after having been repeatedly looted by Englishpirates and finally
destroyed by PuritanWilliam Jackson. Consequently the Garifuna settled inthe city o f
Trujillo. Successively, due to the political turbulences that resulted from the war o f
independence that took place in the Americas at the beginning o f the 1gthcentury, the
Garifuna abandoned Trujillo and gradually established villages along the coast o f the
Central American Caribbean.

At that time the coast was uninhabited, since the original dwellers, the Pech, had mostly
chosen to settle further inland, due to the pressures exerted on them by the Miskitos,
which enslaved the peoples settled along the whole o f the Central American Caribbean
coast.

Itwas around 1860that the exodus o fthe Olanchanos to the Northcoast began, and
they settled inthe zones o f L a Ceiba, El Porvenir and Armenia. The Garifuna shared
with them their trade secrets, introducing them to the business that years later ended up
being dominated by Sicilian immigrants, who soon took over the purchase and sale o f
bananas for the markets inthe South o f the United States.

The first decadesofthe 20thcentury saw a gradualrecognitiono fthe Garifunaterritory
by the Manual Bonilla administration,which extendedrecognitiontitle onthe
communitiesof Cristales and RioNegro, which includedfrom PuntaCaxinasto Silin,
grantingfull landconcessionsto the Trujillo RailroadCompany. Likewisethe
communitiesofthe Irionamunicipalitywere grantedoccupationtitle, where ownership
was recognizedto the Garifunacommunitiesupto Rib Sico.

At that time landswere titled andregisteredon behalfofthe Garifunacommunities as
ejidos. Already thenthe territory was collectivelytitled. The first example o f collective
ejido title, with the provisothat it couldnotbe attached or sold, dates back to 1905 and
was grantedto the Irionacommunity.It shouldbe notedthat accordingto oral
testimoniespriest Jose de Subirana, inthe ISth Century, obtaineda communitytitle for
the Garifunapeoplesthat comprisedthe coastal lands from the San Juande Tela
communityup to Trujillo.

Duringthe 1960s and 1970s, inthe full boomofagrarianreform in LatinAmerica, the
land laws passedbythe government recognizedthe legalparticularityrepresentedby
the indigenousand Garifunapeoplesand legitimizedthe systemof collectiveland
tenure, characteristico fthe ethnias, under aprotectionistapproach.

Itwas athat time, however,that the first invasions ofthe Garifunaterritorytook place,
creatingconflicts, insecurityandproblemsthat have becomemore acute inthe current
times. Inthe 1990s a titling programwas implementedwhich, once completed, left the
46 GarifunacommunitiesofHonduras completelyunsatisfied.

Ineffect, a simpleanalysis shows that the titles issuedunderthe programcoveredthe
same amount of landtitled at the beginningofthe century, without takinginto account
the considerable demographic expansion o fthe people. The Garifunapeoplewere not
granted recognitionover their functionalhabitat.

Sincethen, the Garifunacommunitiesas a whole beganaprocess designedto obtain:
a) legalrecognitionof their own functionalhabitat
b) the regularizationo ftheir territory; meaningthat the Governmentpay to the foreign
intrudersfor any improvements inorder to evict them andrestorethe land.
These demands o fthe Garifunapeoplehavematerializedinthe presentationof
uncountablerequests for the expansion ofthe communitytitle. Almost all ofthe
communitieshave claimedrespect for their territorial rights.The measure was shownto
be insufficient.

A sample ofthe expansionrequests filed by the 16 communitiessettled inthe zone of
Irionashows that they requested27,600 hectares and only 8,580 hectareswere titled.
The Instituto Nacional Agrario declaredthat nottitled [to the communities]thus
excludingab origine any hypothesis o fregularizationwere the lands occupied by
foreigners andthe lands comprisedinthe environmentalreservezone designatedwith
the name ofReservaRio Tinto.

The protectedArea is indicatedinthe EnvironmentalManual o fthe HondurasLand
ManagementProiect(page 25 table 7 number4) as ForestReserve Sierra Ri6 Tinto;
suchzone would comprise an area of 69,487 hectares andwouldhavethe institutional
support ofthe environmentalNGOknownas MOPAWI. totally foreignto the Garifuna

people and alien to their interests and Cosmo vision. Besides such area has not yet been
legally recognized as a Protected Zone, no Decree has been issued inthat sense.

This circumstanceunderlinesthe violation o f its operational policiesby the Bank
operatives; any titling proiect that contemplates the delivery o f zones beingclaimed by
the Garifuna people (since they constitute their functional habitat) to non indigenous
NGOs or individuals, represents a severe damage to the Garifuna r>eor>leand a
serious violation of their rights. Therefore the implementation o fthe project would
generate a serious damage as compared to what would have prevailed ifthe project had
not been developed.

Inthis sense we underlinethat part ofthe territory claimed by 28 o fthe 46 communities
is within protected areas or their buffer zones. The Ofraneh has accompanied the
communities throughout this process and supported their claims.

Inview o fthe impossibility o fresolvingthe conflicts domestically, because o fthe well-
known difficulty o f accessingthe court system and the systematic harassment by the
judiciary, Ofraneh, as already mentioned, had to resort to international instances.

In2003 the organizationfiledwiththe Inter-American Commissionon HumanRights
regarding three emblematic cases linked to the recognition o f territorial rights.

Also inthis case the P A T H activities preiudge and will have a negative incidence on the
communities' claim process ralreadyl submitted to the iurisdiction o f an international
tribunal, It i s enough to underline that part o f the Punta IZOPO
                                                                reserve, claimed by the
above mentioned Triunfo de la Cruz community, under the Bank's desim has already
been handed over to an NGO that i s alien to the community.

Summarizinp the World Bank damages the Garifuna people by establishing inadvance
the delivery o ftheir territory to foreign people, besides determining measures that favor
the atomization o f community titles. Furthermore, there i s a clear risk that the lack o f
clarity regardingthe procedures applicable to the titling and the pertinent lepislation,
originating inthe arrangements proposed by the PATH, will paralyze the progress o f the
territorial claims.

These damages result from the violations o f the Operational Directive and other
operating policies, which have been discussed inparagraph 4 o f this Request. The
current and potential damages mentioned above stand out as a result o fthe lack o f
compliance on the part o f the Bank o f the operating procedures and policies related to
the project's design, assessment and implementation.

6) Requesters claims prior to submittingthe Request
Before reachingthe decision of presenting this Request, Ofraneh and the affected
communities took a series of steps designed towards a constructive dialogue with the
institutions involved inthe project.

After the consultation meeting dated August 22,2005, Ofraneh presented a complaint to
the World Bank Management detailing its claim and pointingto the violations o f OD
4.20. The Bank received the complaint on August 26, 2005 and promptly invited the
representatives o f Ofraneh to a meeting that took place inTegucigalpa on September 21,

2001 [sic]. The meetingwas held with members o fthe Bank and Ofraneh. Ofraneh
presented its issues and concerns and made its complaint; the Bank clarified that there
existed specific provisions to comply with the safeguard policy regarding Indigenous
Peoples such as clause 3.11 inthe Loan Agreement. The clause specifies that inthe
areas o f influence of the project there will be no physical demarcation or titling o f lands
adjacent to the lands o f indigenous peoples unless procedures are followed to safeguard
their rights, duly consulted with the affected parties in a manner satisfactory to the
World Bank and included inthe Project's Operating Manual.

Ina fax dated October 20,2005 Mr.Walter Benjamin summarized what hadtranspired
inthe meeting and identified the specific suggestions o fOfraneh: (i)   enhancing the
respect and transparency inthe process o f its socialization (ii)letting the communities
themselves decide ifthey participate inthe P A T H or not through the internal decision
making process (iii)  requesting a three-party meetingwith the Government, to be set for
November 4. Ina letter dated October 25,2005 Ofraneh answered that the PATH
project had been causing concern and promoting the division o f the Garifuna people and
opposed the tone o f the correspondence o f Mr.Benjamin McDonald, clarifying that the
dissatisfaction o f the Garifuna people was not limited to the Property Law as the letter
intimated, but with the PATH which violated Operational Directive 4.20.

To end, it expressedthe determinationto present a request to the InspectionPanel. The
World Bank, through Mr.Jorge Mufioz, responded with a fax on October 27,
underlining that they had the greatest willingness to understand inmore detail the
concerns o f the communities and asked for a time and a place to be named for the three
party meeting with Ofraneh, the World Bank and a Government delegation in L a Ceiba
on November 4,2005.

Ofraneh, by fax dated October 31 confirmed by an e-mail dated November 3, 2005,
communicated it would take part inthe meeting.

However, on November 4,2005 at the place selected to carry out the meeting, there
appeared representatives o f the MesaRegional (Regional Board), an institution that i s
not recognized by Ofraneh and the Garifuna people and i s alien to the institutions, the
Government and the World Bank, with which the organizationwas communicating.
Hence, it [the organization] sent a fax to the Bank in which it underlined its perplexity
and disagreement with the way the dialogue between the institutions had been
organized, underliningthat they lacked seriousness. Besides the presence o f outsiders, it
had to be construed as an attempt to alter the solution procedure on the part o fthe
agents involved. However, Ofraneh expressed its willingness to have a further meeting
before presenting the inspection request. The Bank, through Mr.Benjamin, in a letter
dated November 18,2005, answered that the dialogue on the development o f the Project
needed to include the representatives o f the Mesa Regional. Mrs.Miriam Miranda, o f
Ofraneh's executive board, ina conversationheld with Mr.Mufioz on November 4,
underlined the illegality o fthe set up o f said Board, which has been created in spite o f
the disagreement o fthe communities, was not elected by the communities, is not an
organization that represents them and results from a draft (the above mentioned
Methodology) and not an official document. It may be noted that the members o f the
Mesa Regional cannot be considered other Garifuna representatives,as they are
described by Mr.Benjamin McDonald in his letter o fNovember 18,2005.

Therefore the Ofraneh, rejectingthe representativeness o f an institution involved inthe
dialogue with the Government and with the Bank, considering that they had done what
was possible to find a solution to the problems resulting from the Honduras Land
Management Project, made the decision to sendthis request.

Considering what has been indicated above we may assert that clearly the contents o f
this action has beenmade known bythe requesters to the Bank.

7) Unsatisfactory responsesfrom the World Bank
The solutions provided by the World Bank are unsatisfactory because, consideringthe
background, they offer no concrete short term measure or solution, to channel the titling
process inaccordance with the preferences selected by the members o f the communities
and pursuingthe process o f vindication o f their territory that goes back one decade. The
execution o f the P A T H endangers the very survival o f the Garifuna people because it
cannot agree to solutions unless they are based on a concrete will to resolve the conflicts
and recognize the rights over the lands that ancestrally belong to them.

8) Measurestaken by the Requesters
Finally, we have already mentionedthe measures to resolve our problem addressed at
the national instances (lobbying and political advocacy work to achieve the amendment
of the Property Law; filing cases related with tenure inthe domestic courts) and
international (presentation of three petitions to the Inter-American Human Rights
Commission to achieve recognition o ftheir territorial rights.)

Conclusions

Therefore, w e consider that the actions and failures o fthe World Bank mentioned
above, which are contrary to the already mentioned policies or procedural standards,
have affected (by violating the right o f consultationand the inconsistencies and
disagreements caused by the establishment o f operating rules on the titling o f
Indigenous lands that have not taken into account the existing legal framework and the
real situation o f access to justice by the Garifuna people, thus contaminating and
increasing the complexity o f the process o f vindication o f their territory) and will affect,
through the potential damages discussed inparagraph 6, in a substantial and negative
way the rights o f the Garifuna people. We therefore request that the Panel recommend
to the Bank's Board o f Executive Directors that an investigation be conducted.

The following documents are attached:
1)Public communication regardingthe PATH
2) Ofraneh's complaint regardingviolations o f OD 4.20 (with annexes) o f August 22,
2005
3) World Bank letter o f September 14, 2005
4) Minutes of Ofraneh - World Bank meeting o f September 21,2005
5) World Bank letter o f October 20,2005
6) Ofraneh letter o f October 25,2005
7) World Bank letter o f October 27,2005
8) Ofraneh letter o f October 31,2005
9) Ofraneh e-mail o fNovember 3,2005
10) Ofraneh letter o fNovember 4,2005
11) World Bank letter o fNovember 18,2005

12) Certificates of submittal of petitions to the Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights
13) Certificates and points inminutes of the Garifuna communities, stating their
position regarding the PATH.

We authorize the public dissemination of this Request

Signatures........

LuisFernandez
OFRANEH Executive Committee
There is a seal: OrganizacionFraternalNegra Hondureiia La Ceiba, OFRANEH,
Presidente (Fraternal Black Honduran Organization La Ceiba, OFRANEH, President)

Gianluca Gaia
Ofraneh and Triunfo de la Cruz Attorney

Maurizio De Martino
Triunfo de la Cruz Attorney

There are 3 other signatures indicating "Comite Ejecutivo" (Executive Committee)

S0i:aSiZiidd e Xsspecri6at

pnra; 5! Set;p;llrirJ f;"euri\/Q
                            'J'I
iJ Pane! .';e inspfcciSn
1%!R I ] 31. &.iw 9ahington D.C..     2 ~ 4 3 3kc,. LiG.

Sosot;*os, Organizacibn Fraterrlai Negm Honduras (Ofran ,                                         ba
(i13ndwss), 3d0, Pisa Libreria el 'rrkbe!. Barrio El Centra, &fax               +(584)443.2392 y
correo electrinicc, &neh@,laceibn.com,               coia 10s zbogados Gianiuca G3ia y Maiirizio
De Martino, del colegio de !os abogados de NapoIi con bufete en Napoti (Itaiia) en la
via fosillipo, 17613.Telefax: 39.08 1.5754535. correm electrbnieos gsiakan@vab&t                   y
masderna@hotmail.com             con carta poder anexa, quienes represmtarnos a las
comsnidades garifurtas de Honduras (subrayarnos que 12 Bfraneh c3 es una
Organizacion No Cubemamental sino una Federacibn cuyos m~embrosson elegldos
cada ires afios por el puebh gasifuria reunidos en asamblea e1 que le confiese la
representativibad del pueblo ajust6ndose a cuanto previsto en el estatuto de ia
organizaciSn) evidenciamos lo siguierate:

 1)PrsyecbC3                                                &jet0 de la $~~~~~~~~
               ~~~~~~~~~~         r e%Balnco
                                             ~~~~~~~~

El Progama de Adainistracibn de Tierra en Honduras (PATH), financiado por el
Banco Mundial, es uli proyecto encaminado a garantizar la estabilidad y segriridad
jwidica necesaria sobre e! bien tierra para resolver el problem endemic0 !igado a esa
(solamente un 30% de la tierra del pais esthn registradas y de estas apenas UP,tercio
posee referencia catastral). El PATH prevC un sisterna descentra!izado de gestibn de la
propiedad inmueble (regufarizacidn, titutacibn, CatSstm, registro en el folio real)
 integrado por entidades publicas y privadzss) el mal genere, regstre y vincule
 informacibn publica y privada, sobre trinsacciones de parcelas urbanas y males, de
 rnmerz accesible, ciiciente y actrializada en la5 ireas del proyecto.

 En la parte que m s se reiacioila con mis representados el Proyecto estableee que: en
 referencia a pmpiedades y/.          posesiones respaldadas por titulos o certificaciones
 ancestrales estas se agrupan demo de la categoria de propiedad privada. Una vez
 reconocidos los dereclios de las comilnidades e inscritos en el registro de la propiedad
 aqiieilas gozan de todos 10s derechos aplicables a la propiedad plena.

 En relaci6n a la propiedad indigena, sc prev6 !a regularizaci6n de ias tienas ancestrales
 a favor de 10s diferentes pueblos indigenas y afro - hondureEos que garantizara
 plenarxente el derecho de dominio sobre las misrnas, rnediante el rzconocirniento de la
 propiedad comma1 y!o individual (segh la vohtad de cada pueblo) rnediante 1a
 inscripcibndei dominio en !os registros correspondientes.cos la participacion directa de
 ias coniunldades en el procesc de legalizach-t, para que gocen de est8 fmna de 10s
 derechos de propiedad plerra.

 El Banco Mundiai eil su informe numero 27604 HO. publicado en kcha 20 de enero de
 2004, remarcaha que el proyecto i m p t A k I P 0 4.20 ya qi!e apoya ia demarcacibn y
 titdacibn de tierras ancestraks indigcnas y a h - hondurefias en nornbre de esos
 pueblos, EPel misrno inform se &ma                  qilt, para cuniplir con la DQ 4.20, tla flar! de
 DesarroIlo de ics Pueblos Indigexis (PDPI) ha s i d ~preparzd\J por ei Gobierno. El
 documentc sigue aclarando que, tashxb.xe en la participacion infomada de 10s pieblos
 involucrados, intentara aszgurar que 10s Pueblos indigenas na se vem adve;xmenie
 arectados por el prfiyecio y que reciban be~efkiossoclales 4 econ6micos cuiruralrnente
 coqatibles.


                                                                                            I




Nossrz~s,Orga~.izaci6nFraternal Negra Ihndura {Ofraneh) con sede es La Ceiba
(Hondbaras), 2do. Piso !,ibre;ia    el `TrPbol, Eanio El Centrir. tekfaax +(504)443.2382 1
correo electr6:iko, pfraneh,E",ceiba.com, COR !os abcgados Gianluc.3 Gaia y Maurizio
De Martino, del colegio de 10s abogados de N a p 5 con btifete en Napoli (Itaila) en la
\ria Posillipo, 17613. T z t e f x 39.081S7.54535. comeos electrhicos gaiakan(i?ly&m.it     y
tnaodem2,~,~~ot;nail.com      son carta poder acexa.        quienes representarnos a las
comunidades garihnas de Honduras (subrayamos que la Gfraneh no es una
Organizacion No Cubermmcral S ~ m a Fedcrrtcih      G         L I J ~ O S
                                                                        niiembros son eiegidos
cada tres aHos por el pueblo garifma reunidos en asamb!ea e l que le confiere 1a
representatividad del pueblo ajustandose a cuanto previsto en e! estatuto de la
organlzaci6n) evidenciamos lo siguiefite:

1) PrOye&G FiBanck%dO                 araw             objero de h%IEsitia
                                             ~~~~~~~

El Programa de Administracihn dz Tierra en Honduras (PATH), financiado por el
Banco Mundial, es un proyecto encamhado B garantizar Ia estzbilidad y seguridad
juridica necesaria sobre el bien tierra para resolver el problema endkmico ligado a esa
(solamente un 30% de la tierra del pais e s t h registradas y de estas apenas un tercirs
posee referencia catastral). El PATH prey6 un sistema descentralizado de ,geesti& de !a
propiedad imnuelnle (regularizacihn, titulacibn, caiastro, registro en e l fo'olio real)
inlegado por eI?i;idades publicas y privada) el cual genere, registre y vincule
informacih publica y privxk, sobre transaccimes de pzrceias uhanas y rwales, de
manera accesible, eficiente y actualizada en tas Breas del proyecto.

En la parte que mas se relaciona con mk representados el Proyecio establece que: en
 referencia a propiedades y'o posesiones respifldzdas por tinilos o certificaciones
 ancestrales estas, se agrupan denim de Ia categoria de propiedzd privada. Una vez
 ~ ~ o n o c i d o!oss derecbs de [as comunidades e inscritos en e i registro de la propiedad
 aqixI!as gozan de todos !os derechos aplicables if Za propiedad plena.

 En rdaci6n a la propiedad indfgena, se pret.6 Ia reguiarizacidnde Ias tierras ancestrales
 a favor de 10s diferentes puebios indigenas y afro - hondureFios que gararitisara
 plenznente el derecho de dorninio sdre las mismas, mediznte et reccnocimiento de ia
 propiedad comma1 ylo isdividu~f(segim la voluntad de cada pueblo) rnediante 18
 inscripcidn del dorninio en 10s registros correspozdienztes. con ia parcicipacion &recta ds
 las cornunidades en el pmww de legaiizaci6n. para que gocen de esta forma de Ics
 dzrechos de propiedad plena.

 El Banco Mundial en su informe ntimero 23604 HO, Dubiicadtjen ferha 20 de enero de
 21204, rernarcaba que et. proveeto impulsa la DO 4.20 ya que apoya la demarcacidn j-
 titulacihn de tierras ancesarates indigenas y afro - `nondurefias en nornbre de e s o ~
 pueblos. En eI anism informe se afirna quc, para cumpiif cnn !a DQ 4.20, un Pian de
 Desarrolls de 10s Puebins Indigeriss (PDiPI) ha sido preparad~por ei Gobi~mo.El
 documento sigr?eaclarando qiie, hss6ndose en la participacio:: informada de 10s pueblos
 involucradm, intentnrn asegurar q w 10s Pueblos fndigenac tt-3 se vem adversamenre
 afestados per e: psoyecto y c j ~ ereciban beneficizs sirciafes y ecoil6ntieos cdturalmente
 COi;;lpE!ibkS.



                                                     I

El Banco utiliza en el cas0 que nos atafie o t m politicas relacionadas con el territorio o
habitat funcional dcf pueblo Garifma de Honduras: la CeP 4.01 (Evaluaciin Ambiental)
C  U enfcque se centra en las cuesttones ambientales irnportaks
        ~                                                            de un proyecto y la
OP 4.04 (Khbitats Naturales) con la que el Bznco respalda la proteccibn, et
mantenirniento y la rehabiiitacibn dc 10s habitats Eaturalesy sus funciones.

A partir del 1 dejulio del 2005 ha entrado en vigor la PoEtica Operacisnal OF4.10 y !as
Nomas de Brocec%rniento del Banco BF4.10. A1 respecto seAalarnos que hemss
considerado oportuno indica brevernentetaixbiCn dichas politicas y normas.

3) Dichas politicas han cido disefiadas y viefiena menudos revisadas, para que el Banco,
en la ejecusi6n de sus proyectos, respete 10s est&ndaresy la normdiva internacionsl
prevista a tutela de 10s derechcs de 10s pueblos indigenas, tal         se estipula en 10s
convenios internacionales (Convenio 169 de        Organizacih Enterilacionaldel Tratisjo:
Convenio sobre la Diversidad Biol6gica, Proyecto de Declaracibr, de 10s Pueblos
Indigeiias de las Naciones Unidas, Proyecio de DeclsiraciSn indigenade 3a Organizzci6n
de Estados Americanos).

El 30 dejiilio de 1994 rmiediante Decreto 26 -94 Hondurasriitifk~ Convenio 169 de 1%
                                                                    ei
OrganizacibnInternacional del Trabajo sobre PueblosIndigenasy Tribales. Enrelacidni
a Ias tierras el convenio confieire (ai-ticu'los 13    ;i19) una serie de disposiciones,
mediante las males se eeconoce a 10s p~eb'losintereados el derecko di: propiedad y
posesibnsobre 1%   tierras que tsadisionalmente ocupan, asi G O ~ la prstecci6n especial
                                                                    O
de 10s recursos natcnrales existentes en dEci7a ticrra. El 31 dejulio de 1945 de! rnisrno
a50 H Q ~ UtzmbiCn ratifico ei Convenio iobre Diversidad Bio!bgiea
                ~ E S

Estos Convenios defineha, rectonocen y amparm, nc3rrriz.sjuridicas de 10s inlereses del
prrebio garifuna que se sustancian en obtenea la cor~ervaci6ndei teeritorio ancestral y
de 10s rectiisos naturales que en el se encuentrarr para podei satisfai.er la xcesidd de
subsisiencia y desarrdlo sostesible, siempre enmarcadas en el respeto a la cultirra y
cosrnovisibn propia de: pueblo. Adcmas 10s _eari%nas anhelan el reconocirniento de
todos 10s derechos especides, tanto !.os deiechos cokctivos, como individuales. En eI
phafo relative zi perjuicio actual y potencia! que el yoyecto awrea, se aclarara bien
la dimensi6~de !a problemitica y ios rec,lamilstesrltoria!ts de !as zomunidades B traves
de un recorrido de !a antecedenles de !os programas de tiluh5.k de Ia comunidad
gariiFC;?i.a.

, _
-".quip&er-;:os zrlelantar que [as c(miir;idades gnrffiinzs has quedado lnsaiisfechq,pair
i p s prQF3sf35& titu!aci6r: "i:!" t;sn .:iced::&?
                                               se              cc vsf:as epc?c=. Dic;I..o. p;t?gpn,as
                                                                      . ,
Lo*
iiilrl arrc_):rado:la reduccl6n dei propis hihitat FLtnciorral, la iegitin7aciSn de invasiones
+e--.+
,,lI;Loriaies,  e! consecuenre prablenis de !a preseack de personas no i~dfgenasen !as
tierras adjjudicas a Ies pueblos indigenas. For le ~ n t fos pueblos, acompafiados por la
                                                                   o
orgsnizacibn solicitante, has iniciado tin proceso encaminado a la obtencibn de h s
titvlos de las &rea; reciamadzs y no tieuIadas por e1Estado. Para tal fin. la Qfraneh y las
comutlidadesafectadas, hanyrc-senrado tres peiiciones ante la Comisi6n Interamericana
de Dereckos Humznos CIDH, todas relacionadas con ias violaciories de lor derechos
terriioriaies, ademas de estar Hevando a cabo un proceso de cabi!dec para la r e f o r m be
!a Ley de Propiedad Decreio-84 del 2300. [,as comunidades exigeii que el proceso de
titulacijn se desarrolle en un marco norrnattvo general que se ajuste a 10s atandares
internzcionales que lritelen   S L ; ~       derechos especiales. Adernas se exige que 10s rniembros
de las comunidades tengan participaci6n ectlsra ne so!o a tray& de !a comlalta sobre
material predeflnido sino a traves de 1s presentaciclres de propestas legislativas y
reg'lamentarias inchso en materia adrninistrativa y de propuestas de mecanismos de
solucih de 10s coilflktos.                                                   .
                                                                           .I




Cuanto expresado significa que las comunidades pretenden ser un sEjeto activo en la
toma de decisidn sobre su futuro como paeblo, Frente a 10s peligrosreprescntadospor el
 iibre i;-iercado de tierras, el pueblo garifuna ha mantenido el sisierna de posesi6n
coinnnitario de 10s territorios.

 4.) ViolaciSEn 2 ha$Pfmimsas
                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~


 El Banco Mundial, lastimosamente, no hatenido en cuenta 10s derechos e intereses del
 pueblo garifuna y, a pesar de cuanto disguesto en sus manuales operacionaies,                     ha
 violado sus propias poiiticas de la siguiente manera:



 El Banco ha violado Izs disposiciones previstas por el piirrafo 8 y remamido por e1
 pbnafo 14 a) y c>de la DO 4.26 que esteb!ecen:

En sinresis no se han considerado ninguna de !as opciones preferidas per los prreblos
iiivolucrados,  e?.i iospatrones4acales de organiaci6n s o d      SOT;.la e i e c c i h del sistema
de tefiencia colectivo y !as repercusiones en termino de exc'rilsi6~del desarroiio en e l
cas0 de apertura ai s i s t e m de tenencia individeiaide tierra.

Enfecha 18 octubre de 2003, Cos rneses antes de la mencionadarer:nih, se ilevo a cabo
en San Juan, Tela un taller de consulta sobre el borrador de IC: mas a116 sera el
                                                                         que
Decreto 84 - 2000 Ley de Propiedad. En aqueIta ocasih 1.0s representantes de Ias
cornlnnidadesIcvmtaron su voz en contrade la emisi6nde dicha Ley por motivos que se
puedeil aclarar con la iectura de 10s docurnentos ariexos elaborados enfase de consulta y
cabildeo por 10s abajo firinantes y apoyacios por 1%             consuiiorias de expertos. e
Institucionesinternacionales.

Al respeclo evidenciamos que los solicitantes estan blen conscientes que dicha Ley es
un acto delGobierno. fiierade lajuridiccidiz de! personal del Panel, per0 cabe subrayar
que el mismo personalya sabia que el Gobierno emitiiia dentro de poco tiempo una fey
territorial clave en 10s fiituros programas de tituIaci6n de tierrz, ademas ya conocian ia
incclnforrnidaddel pueblo garifuna a esa Ley. Si3 embargo, aun a sabiendas de y e la
Ley de Propiedad se volveria el eje normativo del proyecto PATH, ellos no hicieron
rnenci6n de esa parte relativa a: marc0 normativo en el que giraria el proyecto. Dicha
omisibn, y la falta de ifitervencihn a Irav& de reunienes de socializacih sucesivas,
 parece absurda y ha engendrado conf~si6nentre %ascomunidades garifunas, Esias se
 encuentran rentea dos mecanisnos distititos para iievar a cabo los pmcedimientosde
 titulaci6n y la soluckh de 10s conflictos: el Manualdel ?ATH con el Plan de Cesarrolio
 Tndigena y 10s regiamentos del Banco y lo previsto por Ia Ley de Propiebad. Ademas
 ambos instrumentos son inadecuados s e g h el punto de vista del pueblo garifirna y
 presentan lagdim. A manera de ejernpio seiialamos que uaos de lo? reglsmeiitos del
 PATH que vienen divulgados son considerados solo con10 boirsdores s e g h palabras
 del mismo personal de! Banco; las rei-un;lones de consulta sabre las commidadespiioros
 se llevan a cab0 sin otorgar a !os intercsados ni siqraiera un folletc! explicative respecto
 a1 Broqecto (la poblaclitn garikna ademas se b ~ s asobre tradiciones cultiirales oraies 5'
 hcbierasido aprqiado tener reuniones preventivasen ias coa~unidadrsen confarmidad
 cbn dictio pair6ncuitrrral).

 En la coiisulta sobre ei PATH, lievada a c&o en TrujiHo en ribril de! 2005, en la que se
 eligieron las corz~i~nidadespilonos dei prooyecto y ins ireas prctegidas, no se io
 proporciono miterial explicatiuo a ios representantes de !as comunidades I~ivitadosiila
 rez-iniSn. En aquelk ccasi6n, ei seRor Angel Castro invirado c m o Presidenle del
 Patronate de la corntinidad garifma de? TriwFo de la Cruz se rehm4 a firma; iir~
 documento, con ei que io5 fincionarios gubei-narr!znta.ies buscan colr,sefiso sdKe               I2
 ap!iczci6n de Iss zie~cionadosplanes dentre, de kas comunidades garif2'ilTigs.




                                                 4

Finairnente renarcarnos que el person21del Banco nuncaha entregado a ios miernbros
de     comunidades 10s   ~ ~ C U E I ~ ~ ~ Q S ,
                                         1% inturmacienes j las capzciitacioiies neces~rias
psra estar a1 tanto sobre 10s mecanismos de ejecricih del giOYeGt0. Igualrnente la
organizacibn solicitantc r w x a ha recibido copia de dxxrnentos slave come, el
Convenh de CrPdito entre el Banco Muridid y el Estado de Honduras. A pesar de esa
ulterior vioIaci6n a! derecha de consulta y participacion informada en et proyesto los
sokitantes han recngido infomixiones siificientes pars f~i!t?Oirtreritar!E present;^
sollcitud asi mino se podrd nota; en 10s phrrafos siguientes.

Por 10s notivos mencionados el i3anco Mundial ha vinIrrdo tapbiCn ias disposiciones
previstas por 10s pinafos 6: IG; 11; i2 y 15 de la PolItica Ofkracional 4.10. No cabe
duda atie se haestablecido cue: no existe apoy:, a1 provecto por parte del pueblo
garifuna.

En la OP 4.10 se afirrna Cue "el Banco Mundialpresia esxcia atencih a ja evsliincibn
socis?!v a 1%  actas y et resuktado de las consultas previa libres e inforrnzdzs con las
~ _ _ indigenas afectadas, cam0 baseparadeterminar siexistedicho apovo.
comunidades _
Banco no sigue adelante con ;a tramitacibn del provecto-si no puede determinar la
existencia de dhcho apoyo".



Adems el Banco Mundial ha violado Eas disposiciones prevista            PO: 13   OhPiS 2.34
phrrafo 5 y DO 4.20 pdrrafo 15 a) y c j y ei pirraf9 9 be la Do 4.20 que aqili se reportarr.

Subrayarnosque el Banco exgrcso que no $rindaria asistencia para ninguna activiJaJ de
desarro1io ql;e entrak a s-bierdas 13 invasi6n de tierrzs o territorios de salvaguardia
(OMS 234; p6rrafo 5 DO 4.20 phrrafo 15 TL)y c).

La vioEaci6n se concretz en la circumtancia que, como ya hemos se5alado en el parrafo
anterior, no se ha considerado e l disefio del          PDI, el estado legal de 10s grupos
,-.-,n ,,cr,3
   i ,I,,,,dss   por est; Dircctlvr: !3peracional, tal carno csta rckjado cn la co~~st;i~cicii~.
legislaci6n principal y legislasi6n subsidiaria (reguisciones, ordenes administrativas,
etcktera) del pais. El Plan de Desarro!lo Indigena no t o m en cuenta de ninguna manera
ia legislaci6n vigente sobre 10s pueblos indigenas y 10s procedimientos legales de
titufacibn colectiva.




N respecto aclaramos que iiunca; desde la emisi6n del PCPI, sc han dessrroliado
reglainentos relativos a la dernarezcih y delimitacih de !as Breas reciamadas por !os
pueblos indigenas 10s cuaies, por lo tanto, seguirian el procedimieiito previsto por el
Reglamento de Afectacibn dirigiendo sus solicitudes de anpliacih y sus reclamos al
Institute Nacional Agrario. Sin enbargo el PDI prevC (vkase pagina 12 del PDI) la
creacih de una Unidad de Asuntos Indigenas con i'a funci6n de institusih encaxgada
be ilevar a cabo y monitorear el procedimiento de tiiulxih de tierra de pueblos
indigenas.No se comprer.de como &a dItirna iiistituci6n se coordinara con e l Instii;;to
Nacional Agrario y cual serh el procedimiem de litulaci6n que se apiicara.

 De todas formas, la ernanacibn de reglamentos coiztribuiria solo a originar una fdta de
claridad de la normativa aipticabk ~3ndetriment9 de las rehindicaciones de ios pueblos
 indigenas. Ai respecto seiialamos que la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto del PATH
 habia prqmorcionado a la OFRhNEH            v1n reglamento denominado hfetcdologia Para
 Deteminzr y Medir 1% Tierras a Ser Tituladas a las Comklnidades 6t~179cas-documento
 elsborado por la Unidad Coordinadoea de Proyccto (UCP) del PATH. Eespuds de Ia
 denuncia presentadaal Bznco Mundia! donde se criticaba duramente &rho documento,
 10s personeros del B.M y 10s miembros del P-ATH, aclararon que SP trataba sob de UI:
 borrsldor. Actgaciones como esa aumentan Is conksi6n en !as pueblos indigcnas y
 fiimeilt.zn la idea que 10s qr;e est;in coordinando la ejecucidn del Proyecto I?" tienen una
 visi6n ciara y defrnidz d? c i r m ejecutaran un proyecto de tal mr-g~it~idque reviste
                                                                                y
 una importancia e-sencial para fa sobrevivericia del pueblo garifma. csa circunstancia
                                                                           F



 levanta preocupaciones sobre todo con respects a posibles errores de evaiuxi4n de !m
 efec:os negatlvos illnrgo pfazo sobre 10s pitebles garifhzs invs!ucrados ET! e1 proyecto.

Apro+cchZmOS 13 ozasi6n para aclarz. que e! pueblo garifma de Eozdum es:i bkn
ccncienm que ia ~rncionadaicy es sq acto del Gobierno y por ic tanto cae fuera de ta
jurisd;cckh del Paye!, per0 n! mlsrnc tkmpo I2 16gicareqeiicre que es debe; dz'i kstitulo
 financiero estahtecer !e ernrsmn de 10s eiernentos reglamentarios de un proyectc de
                               . . I



titulacibn tan icpoeante e3 coordinacidn con !a fegislaei6n vigente en el, pais.
 La fdta de atenci6n y coosdinacihn por pafie del Banco y del prestatario, se ha
 traducido en el desarrollo de des nomathas paralelas y contrastante entre si (10s
 :nenedes operathos 5 10s regiarnenics del Bancci y !a legislacibn de! Gobierno).

 Como ejempio sefialamos que el PDI prevC el arbitraje coin0 instancia para la
 resoiucih de 10s confiictos q w tierxn c m x objcta fa tenencia de tierra de ifis pueblos
 indigmas (pagina 17 del PD1); csa so!uciCn: que consideramos inconstitucional en
 cuanto preve un linico gad0 de justicia, es distinta respecto a ias que prevd la Ley de
 Propiedad en sus Tiitulo VI articdos 110 y 111. iCud prgcedimiento $1aplicara?
 Ademas cabe subrayar que ei pueblo Garifuna ya expieso en la h s e de coamita su firme
 recham a lo5 mecanismos de ~ o l ~ c i bden 10s conflicios proprrestos por el PATH.
 Preocupa que se planteen instancias de aesoluci6n de contlictos (vCase pagina 12 del
 PDI) que no responden 2 la realidad social y politica en la, que viven 10s miembros de
 las comunidades; no se puede pretender resolver conflictos que se remontana ciecenas
 de afios atrirs por medio de Mesas InterCtnicas o Procedimientos de Co~ci'liaci6n:
 Concertacibn o Mediaci6n don& las disparidades de 10s intereses reppesentados, elites
 de poder por un lado y pueblos indigenas por el sti-o. no pueden que desembocar en
 resoiuciones totalmeslfe besfavorable pars10s pueblos indigenas.

 El PATH, er. carnbio de destacarse como proyecto a la vanguardia en la titulaci6n de
 tierra para el amparo que brinda a 10s pueblos indigenas involiicrados, mas bien afecta
 el carnino de dichoii pueblos hacia e l resonochiento & sus dereshos teaitoriales en
 cLtanto genera confusi6ncon sespets, a 10s procedimientos de titulacibn y i:la I~gislaeiQn
  apiicabbie, a las institxiones encargadas de otorgar las titulos y a las Instaxias     :I'
  procedimientosdeSign2dOSparaso!ucionar 10s cCdktGS.

  Pos otro lado, subrayarnos que RO se ha tornado en claenta, en La redacci6n de! PDI bel
  Proyecto, de la real hezbiiidod de ios pue@!c.sindigenasy negos paraobterrei acc,e~oal
  sistema legal y usarlo eEcazmente para defender sus derechos. No se h i z mencih de
                                                                                ~
  ningdnestudio que estableciera el nivel de acceso al sisteaa kgal domestic0 del pueblo
  garifuna Ademirs no se torno enconsideraci6R lacircunstaarciaque ia irngosibI!idad para
  10s garifma de obiener Qustlciaen relaciiin i! aectarnos territorioles a tra-aivis del
                                                       SE
  sistemajudicial loca!, les ha obiigado a acuSi: i!instancias iztemacionales como ultimo
  intento para soluclmar sils probiemas. En octobre del 2003, o sea antes que se
  socialimia en S a n b ~Creek ei PATH, la Ofraneh er, .representxiha de iss pueblos
  garifmas de Honduras presmto airte la CornisiEn lnteramericana de Derechos Humanos
  u;n3 petici6n, con la que,se denilnciaba la violacibn de siis derechos tenitoriales por
  parte del Estads de Hor,duras y se pediz el resosocirnienio del terriiorio reciamado. La
  Gomisibn desgloso la peiiciones en ties casos, registrhrtdcfosbajiio :os n12m;os 11!%s/O3
  Cozrrwidad Garifima de Funtz Piedra vs. Esfado de Sonduras; 11l9103 Coriiusidad
  Garifinna de Cayos Cochinos vs. Estado dc Honduras; 906i03 Coinunidad GariFiina de
  Trimfe de la Cruz vs. Esiado de HonOuras. EL i8 da7 octubre del 2OG5 t w o iugar una
  aixiiencia p6Mica en la sede de !a ComisiSn interamericaria de Derechos Hilrnszos con
  sbjeto de la admisi'l;ilidzd de ja peticidrt ntimerg 906.


                                                  7

Per   ICs motivos rngncionados ei Banco    Mundiafiha violado tambiin !as dispxiciones
grevistas por el phprafo 5* !6 y i7 de !a Poli'ilca Operacionai 4.18




A pesar de que en su Manmi Operativcl de Eva1uaciC.n Ambientai los expcrtos del
Baric0 Mtmdial reconocen las problemhticas que afectan 9a ienencia de tierra del puebIo
garifuna, sobre todo en relaci6n a la circtinstancia del traslape entre Areas protegidas y
territorios reclarnados por las cornuriidadesno se estabkcen hipbtesis dz elaboraci6n de
contrato de inanejo     0,por lo menos, de eo - rnsnejo que restituiriar?a !os garifiinas la
potestad sobre su Mbitab funcional que ellos nismo han preservado por s i g h La
dernarcacih de 10s limites acuhticos no se esta efectrrando y RO hay conocimiento de
medidas diiigidas a eliminar o por lo meno menguar las peesemias de instituciones
gubernamentales en la gestidn de las h a s protegidas a favor de ia presencia
perrnanente de 10s rniembros de !as cornunidades. En caxbio, la casi todidad de las
Ongs y de las instituciones qtie el rnaniaal de! PATH seEaIa corn0 encargadas del
msnejo de las Areas protegidas, no contemplaan la gresenciade elementos indigenas y no
e s t h en linea con la cosmovkih de dichos pueblos. Reenviamos a1 @mfo 7 para tin
anhlisis de1 trasslape entre territorios reclarnados y keas supuestarnefite protegidas,
citando cotno ejemplo problembtica origitiada por ei Area protegida Sierra Rid Tieo



Finalmente seh!arnos que el PATH no ha tenido            ti:cuenta la importaticia de 'am
habitats naturales y su interrelacih con las cornunidades garifunas que ocupart dichas
ambientes.

5.) PrejdiEEicid)srtfrido p r e! pueblo Gzrihna
El prejuicio sufrido por el Pueblo Garifmi se concreta en el dafo actual y potenciai que

del territorio del WQ
el PATH entrafia para e1 seguimiento del m g s o de reivindicacionl recnnocimiento

_-I------                      garifung, o en otros tkrminos reclarr?os de sus deeechas
tenitorisks. El prejuicio potencial ulterior se concreta en el serio riago de la
atsmizacih dei tituto colectivo de 13s comunidabes a favor dei titulo individual,
 contrariamente a la elec&o5 sobre e! sisterna preferido de teilencia de tierra efectuada
por el pueblo garifha ensu totalidat.
 Consideramos qire la acci6n y ornisiSht que determina cuanto dichs e5 respisabiiidsd
 del Bznco: el nexo de causalidad se sustmsia en ia circunstancia que si e! BM no
 Rubiera impiementadodicho plan !as cornunidadcs no sufrirfany no se ierian expuestas
 -niencionedospreejuicissyseguirriiisu~rocesodereelarno.
 2 10s

La s@cio&nesis del pueblo garifcca se remorlta a mediados de! sigle XVHl cumcia
naufragw de    GIIharco cargaldo de afiicanos arribarsil a la isla de Sa2 Vicente do;ide se
crnieronai pueblo indigena Kalir,zku.

Debidn a !as frecuentes luchas e~prendidaen contra de 10s invasores de turno, ias
Garifinas. considerados como 8r.a amenaza para ei sisterna colonial, fueron siesplam.ios
a la isia de Roatin.

Llegados a RoatAn en 1794, el Intendente Espailol Rambn de Anguiano vi0 la
opomnidad de repohlar is ciudd de Tmji!!o> Ea c w ! habia pcm,an,pcibo deshabitsk
desde 1643 a 1780, despuCs de haber sido saqueada rcpetidas ocasiones por 10s pirztas
ingleses, jr destruida finalmenee por el puritan0 William Jackson. Por lo tanio los
garifunas se estab!ecieron en la cludad de Tmjillo. Sucesjvamente, debido a !os
vaivenes pditicss que se stiscitaron  C O ~ Q
                                            consewerxias de la perra de independencia
que se dieron en AniCrica a comienzos del sigh XIX, 10s gara'funas abandonaron la
ciudad de Trujillo y poco a poco fimdaron aldeas a lo largo de la costa del caribe
Centroamericano.

Para aquel entsnces !a costa se enc~~~traba       despobiada, dado que sus habitantes
originales, 10s Pech, hcabian optado en ss gran inayoria por asentarse tierra adentro,
debido a Ias gresiones que ejerciernn sobre ellos 10s Miskit~s,10s cuafcs pracilicaban el
esclavismo con fos peteblos asentados a io largo de toda la costa caribe de
Centroarn6rica.

Es para 1860 que comienzo e! exdo de 10s Blanchanos a la costa no&, instalhndoseen
las zonas de la Ceiba, el Porvenir y Armenia. Los garifmas cornpartieron con ellos sus
secretos sobre el comercio, introducidndobs en ei negocio que ados despuks terrninara
siendo dominado For 10s irmigrantes Sicilianos, 10s cude?;nc tardamnen apoderarse de
 la cornpra y vent6 de bansnos para 10s rnercados del sur de 10s Estados Unidos.
 Es para !as ptimeras dkcadas del siglo XX cuanddo se comienza us7 paulatinia
 reconocimienm del territorio garifma, POP parte de la administraciltn de Manuel
 B~nilb,el cui!, extsndi6 untitulo de reconocimIefito s~brelas comuaridades de cristales
 y Rio Negro el cual incluis desde Punta Caxinas hasta Siliz, otorghndok plenas
 concesiones de tierra     a !a Trujilio Railroad Company. De igual, mazxra se les
 concedieron titlrios de ocupacibn a !as comuniddes de! municipio de lriona, dcade se
 ies reconocia la propiedad a Ias comunidaijes garifums hasta el Ri6 Sico.

 En ayueiia Bpocs se le tituiarun y registraron, a !as comunidades garifmas, tewenros
 como ejidos. Ya en aquel eEtonces se le titulo colectivarnente el territorio. El primer
 ejempIo de titub ejidai coleciii.c,       con 10s   requisitos de inernbargabilidad e
 inaIiensbilidad, se remonta a1 I905 y h e nkrgado a !a comunidad de Iriona. Cabe
 remarcai qi;e testimonies orales relatan qar: e! sacerdote Jose de Subirana, eri e1 sigh
 VXII!, consegrsiun titulo cornuniiario para 10s puebll=sgardfunasque abarcaba la frmja
 costera desde la cnrnunidad de San Juande Tela hasta Trujiilo.

Er: efecta tin: aiihi!sis se~cilloacredita q:~, 10s titiilos emitidos segGn e! pro-ograrna.
cubrian !a misms cantidad de tierra tituiada a comier~nosde sighs, sir, tener en cuenta el
considerable incremento demogr6fico de'r pueblo. Wo se le ~econoci6al pueblo garifma
la propiedad sobre ss hibita?kncional.

A partit de aquella 0casi6i1, 1% ccmunlclades garifwas en su ~on.jliilto,ccmenzaron un
pioceso dirigido a obtener:
a>el reconocirniento legal dei paria hSbitat f;ncici;al;
b) ei saneanliento de su territorio; o sea que ei Estado pagara las rnejoras a 10s invasores
foraneos para efectuar el desalojo y restituir la tierra.
Esas exigenclas dei pueblo gaiifuna se har! traducido er: !o coucreto en la presentacibn
de innumerables solicitudes de ampliacibn del titulo cornunitarb. La casi totalidad de
!a comunidades reclainaron el respeto de sus derechos tenritoriales, La inedlda se
reveto insuficiente.

tim muestra dc las solicitudes de ampliacih, presentados por las 16 comunidades
asentadas en la zona de Irbna, resalta que ellas pidieron 27.600 hectareas y se Ie
titularon solo 8,580 hecthreas. El Institute Nacional Agrario decfaro que no se le titdo
Ia tierra ocupada p r fordneos
sanearniento y las tierras comprendida en la zona de resei-vaambiental indicada con e l
              -                     - excluyendo asi ob origiw cuaiquiera hipdtesis de

nombre de ReservaRid Tinto.

La Area protecida es indica& ei; eI Manual Ambiendai del Proyecto de Administraci6n
Tierra en Honduras {'agina 25 tabla 7 n u m m 4) como Reserva Forestal Sierra Rib
Tinto: esa zona abarcarfa la suwrficie de 69.487 hectareas Y tendria el apovo
 institilcio~dde la ONG ainbientalista csnocida corns MQPAWI. t~t3lrnenteextrafia ai
pueblo garifma y ale-iadas de sus intereses Y ccsrraovisibn. Ademas esa area a m no ha
sido rewnocida knaimente como Zclraa Frotegiida, ningk Decreto ha sido e r n i t i d l
 _resceto.
    _

 Esa circunstancia remarea la vioiaciBn de sus politicas operacionaies cornetida For Iss
 operativos del Banco: cuaiquier groyecto de titujacibn aue prevea la entrega d-c. zona
 b3-k reclamo del puebIo garifuna /en cuanto constitu;m sa bzbitst funcional) a ONGs o
 paniculareg no indigenas, rrpresenia hingrave sseriniicio =sa       el pup
 lia2 seria v4oliaci6n de sus derecircs. Por lo tanto la inplementacibn del proyecio
 generaria un deterioro importante en compraci6n con la que hubkra prevalecido de no
 redizarse el mismo.
 En ese iirnbito remarcarnos q w parte del territxio rectamado p r 28 de las 46
 comuaidades se encuer,t:a d e ~ t m B r w protegidaso en su zona de ~
                                     de                                        ~      o    ~ ~ ~ ~ a ~
 La Ofraneh ha acornpafado las comu;iidabes en kodo ese procedimiento y apoyado sus
 reivindicaciones.

En sintesis el Bavco Mundial per-iiuLualpueblo garifunaestableciendo de antemano la
entrega dwterritclrio a personas aienas. ademas se dictan n e d i d a s a e favorecen la
atonnizaci6rt del titulo comuriitaris, kdemas esJundado              el riesgi! que la falta d:: elaridad
sobre 10s procedimientos aplicables para la titulacibn v la LegislaciCInrelativa, orininada
por 10s mecagismm propnestnr wr e! PATH. yra!ice 19s avanc,qs de 10s rx!aztros
territoriales.

Dichos prejuicios se arraigan en las violaciones a ia Directria Operacionai y den&
politicas operacionales, 1%  cuales han d o analisadas en el bhrrafo 4 de ia presente
solicjtUd. Los daAos r?,ctuafesy potenciales rnencionaclosse destacan como consecuencia
del incumphiento por park del Banco de las poliaicas y procedimienios operativos
rebciunados con el diserio, evaluaci6n e implementaci6n del proyecto.

6.) ~     ~   de 10s wlieitantes,~
                     ~    i  ~                e ~ s la                        de ia wlicitud.
                                    ~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~

Antes de llegar a la decisibn de piesentar la presente solicitud la Ofraneh y las
ccrnanidades afectadas han lievado a cabo una serie de gestiones dhrigidas hacia sn
dialogo constructivo con las instituciones invoiiicradasen el proyecto.
La Ofianeh, despues de ias reuniones de consulta, en fecha 22 de agosto del 2005,
presents una denuncia a la Administracidn del Banco Mundial exponiendo su queja y
sedalando las violxiones a la DO 4.20. El Banco recibi6 la deriuticia en fecha 26 dc
zgosto del 2005 y emeguida invilo 2 10s represectantes de la Ofraneh a una reunior! que
se Ilevo a cabo en Tegucigdpa e l 21 de septiembre bet 2001. A la reunibrr asistieron
exponentes del Banco y de la Ofraneh. La Ofraneh expuso sus resquemsres y
preocupsciones y entablo sus quejas; e l Banco aciaro que existian provisiones
 especificss para e! cumpiimien:o de la poiinisa de salvaguardas sobre Pueblos indigenas,
 tales con0 la cldusula 3.11 al Cctnvenio de Craiito. L a ciaustila especiGca que en Eas
 keas de influencia dei proyecto no se demarcaran fisicarnente i! titularan tierras
 adyacentes a tierras de pueblos icdigenss a no ser que se sigan procedimientos que
 velen por 10s derechcs de estos, debidarnente consultados con !as partes afeectadas de
 manera satisfa'actotiapara   Baaco Mundlal e irbcorporados en d Manmi Operativo dzl
 Pruyecto.

t a Ofrrane'n, con telefax del 31 de ociubre confirmado por correo eiect;bnice e! 3 de
no'vierntsrc del 2'305, comunicaba su psrticipaciona :a reunibn.

kmibargo, eldiz4 de novi'embredel2005, enel lugares:ablc:cido paraileva; a cabs
la reunibri se presentai.cn representantesde la Mesa Regional, i~stituci6nno reconockh
por 18 Ofraneh y el pueb!o garifuna y ajena a las instituciones, Gobierno y Eanco
M~3;di3!:COR IPS crra!es la orgmizscih estabs diz!sgandc. Por 13 t a m dfa cr,vib ui
ielefax al Banco con el que remarcaha su perplejidad y desactrerdo para !a manera de
organizar eI dialogo entre institlaciones, subrayando la fa!ta de seriedad de las misrnas.
Ademsls la presencia de personas ajenas, deberia de enteFderse como iniento de
aiteraci6n del procedimiento de soluci6n por parte de 10s agentes involuzrados. Sin
embargo la Ofianehdaba sii disponibi'iidad para !.ma ulterior reuni6nantes de enviar !a
solicitud de inspeccibn. Ei Banco, en persona bel sefior Benjamin, con nota del 18 de
noviembre del 2005, contest0 remarcando que el dialogo relacionado con el desarrollo
del Proyecto debe de 'ilevarse a caho tarnbitincon 10s exponentes de la Mesa Regional.
La seiiora Miriani Miranda, de !a junta directiva de la Bfraneh, enunaplatica sostenida
con el seiior MuAoz en fecha 4 de noviembre, subray6 la ilegaiidadde la fomacijn de
la mencionada Mesa, 1s curl ha sido creada a pesar del desacuerdode las comunidades,
no fue elegidapor las comunidades, no es 6rgano representativo de las rnisrnas y surge
de un bOmdOr (la rnencionzda Metcdologia) y no de un documento oficiaf. Cabe
remarcar que 10s mienbros de !a Mesa Regional no se pueden considerar c ~ m cOPOS
representantes Goi'l&jiitnQ, asi como les describe el seAor BenjaminMcDonald en s?i nata
del 18 de noviembrede2005.

 Por lo tanto la Ofranel?y !as comunidades garifuunas, desmnocienda la representdividad
de una institucih invotucrada en ei dialogo con el Sobierno y con el Banco,
 considerando qsre hicierm io p ~ ~ i bpara enccntrar ERE soluci6,n a las probiern&.ticas
                                           t e
 que e1 Proyecto Administracih de Tierrade Hnduras conlleva, tomaron :a becisi6n de
 enviar la presentesolicitud.

 Considerando cuanto exp~esadspodernos afirmar sin n%ngunaduda que el conteriido del
 presenteacto ha sido pnest~en conociixiefito del Bsnco fos soiicitantes.

 7 )Rapustas      ~               ~ deE Banco    ~~~~~~~~~       ~             ~             ~    ~
 Las solilcior?esdada por el Bane.:, Mundiai son Insatisfxtoria porque, en considersch
 de ios antecedentes, no ofrecen cinpna medida o soluci6n coricrela a corto plazo, para
 encaminar el proceso de titulaci6n segh !as preftrenciasekgidas por 10s niiembros de
 !as cnmunidades y dando seguimtento a! proceso de reivindicacidnde su territorio que
 sts remonta a una dCcada atrhs. La ejecucih dei PATH peligra           hi supervivencia del
          pueb!o gaiifuaa que no pude conforrnarse a sofiiclones q w n~sean b2s3ds
 sobre una concreta vo!uniad de resols7er !os CQP~G~C~OS     y recomcer ios derschos sobre in
 tizrra q ~ i ancestralmeate les pertenecc.
              e




                                                     12

COfiClUiOIlC?
Entoxes, consideraims que !as accioiies y oiiiisiones del Baric0 Mundial mencionadas
anteriornmite. las cua!es son contrarias a las politicas o n o r m s de procedimiento
indicadas, han afectado (con la violaci6n de! derecho de csnsulta y las incongmencias y
Jesacuerdos prowcada a tra:+s         de ia eiiianacion de ngrmas operativas sobre la
titulacion de rierra indigeiia que no lian considerado el i-narco normativo vigente y la
real situacibn de acceso a la justicia del pueblo garifma, asi contaniinando y tornando
mas complejo el proceso de reivindicacibn de su teiritorio) y afectaran, por medio de !os
prcjuicias potenciales aiializados en el phrrafo 6, en forma sustancial y negativa 10s
dereclios del pueblo garifma. Por lo tanto solicitamos que el Panel recomiende ai
Directorio Ejecutivo del Banco que se !leve a calm una investigacibn.


Se anexan 10s siguientes documentas:
 1) Coiiiunicado Publico, respecro al PATH
2) Denuncia Ofraneh violaciones DO 4.20 (con anexos) del 22 agosto del 2C05
3j Carta Banco Mundial 14 de septiembre de! 2005
4) Minuta reuni6n Ofraneh-Banco Mundial del 21 de septiernbre del 2005
5) Carta Banco Mundia! del 20 de octubre del 2005
6) Cai-ia Ofraneh del 25 de octubre del 2005
7) Carta Banco Mundial del 27 de octubrz del 2005
 S) Carta Ofraneh del 3 1 de octubre de! 2005
9) E mailOfranehdel 3 dt. no\ iembre del 2005
 I O ) Cazta Ofraizeh del 4 de novienibre del 2005
 11) Carta Banco Mundial del I 8 de noviembredel 2005
 12) Certificaciones deposito peticiones a Ia Cornisiiin hterarnericand de Derechos
Humanos.
 15) Constancias y Funt~sde actas dz ias comunidades Garifuunas, presentando s~
 posiciniireyectc! d PATH.


 Autorizanros que se haga pcblica esta Solicitud



 Firmas.....,....I . . .....I....

erado Legal Ofranehy Triunfo de la Cruz
      cc G-J

.4nte la destrucci6ri de 10s titdos conunitarios tiarihnas, atrav6s de ia apiicacih de ia
n'iieva Ley para ia Reduccih de !a Potrezamediznte IaNomaIizaci6ri de la propiedsd,
alias la Ley de Propiedad; la Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra tiondureiia, OFRAXEH,
sei?aia la participacibn directr del Banco ?dundial, poi nledio del financiamiento del
proyecto PATH.

Estaintervencihndel Banco Mundial (BM) en el desiino de nuestro pueblo. contradice
XI  Bperativa Direccioca! 4.20, la c m l continua vigente y se5ala la necesidadde efectuar
consultas con !os pueblos que puedanser afectados por 10s proyectos de ese orgaiiisnw.

Desafortunadamente el BM hace casi oniiso a sus propias politicas de salvaguarda, y
procede a !a atomizacikn de nuestro territorio coledivo, presthndosea una supuesta
normalizacihdel concepto de propiedad, que en el cam de nuestropueblo Garifma es
nada m&s que irnponer ei co~ceptode propiedad indi:&lu?! en Oefriri-mto de 10s
teritorios que hemos habitadodura& mAs de dos siglos.

Enunaconsulta con nuestras cainunidades reaiizadr, eri SanJcanTeia. e! 25 5.26 de
octilbre del a40 2003.los Gmtrifmas lleganos la concIusi6rique la Ley de Propiedad
                                                9
impwsta por el E M y el EsladG de Honduras era coiitraproducente para ei hienes;ar y
ibtxro de nuesiro puebh.

EiCongreso naciotial al aprobar laley ignoro iiuestros resquenioresy procedi6 a dar
Iuzverdt paraimpsnerel ccncepto de propiedadindivibuai,sieado Cste ?%a nuestras
corntmictades el fin de ia cohereiicia terhorial y por ende la &miizaci+n de nuestros
territorios.

El mes pasadoa Instmciasdel gobernador pslitico del gobernador politico de ColSn, el
SK. Juan C6mez, se efectuti m a reunihnen iz Ciudadde Trujillo, dcnde de iiuevo ias
conimidades er:presxon sus resquenores a ia bino!uci5n de ios iitul~sCOIliuniiarios.

L a OFUNEH exige UQ cese kmediato a tas xtividades dei PATH en nuestre
territorio, y que una vez por rodzs se respers el derecl-io a la coiisuita previa mente
infomada, a! misnio tiernpo que dejen de utilizar payasos Garihnas ~81120 avd a siis
pietensisnes, y de igrial manera le haceinos un llamado a la igksiz cai6fica y a la
pastvral social Garifma que de-iende prestarse a ios intereses del estado y ai de 10s
organismos intenlacionales de desarrollo e12 contra de Iavida del pueblo Gariliina.

Dado en Tegucigalpa,el 28 de zbri1de 2005                            ..'




                                                                                h

La Organizaci6n Fraterna! Plegra Eondureiia, orgzmkacibn representante de todo el pueblo garifl.1na
de honduras, peseiita la presente denuncia sobre las base de 1a.s siguientes:

CONSIDERAGONES:
   I)BancoMundidpublicoenfecha17deseptiembrede1991laDirectrizOperativa4.20para
      El
   cjrientar si; pcrsonal opsrativo. La direriris oirece una orientacion de politica para asegllrar que
   ICs pueblos indigenas se beneficien de        10s p-royectos de desarrolio y ccitwD mitigar efectos
   potenciales adversos en 10s pueblos indigenas, causados por actividades apoyadas por e! Banco.
   2) EI Progrania de Administracion de Tierra en Honduras (PATH), financiado por e! BM, es un
   proyecto encaminado a garsntizar la estabilidad y seguridac? iuridica necesaria sobre e l bien
   tierra para resolver e l probiema e n d h i c o ligado a esa (solamente un 30% de la tierra del pais
   estan registrada y de estas apenas un tercio posee referencia catastral); e n ese marco, implica
   actividades dirigidas al reconocimiento juridic0 de 10s derechos sobre tierras y territorios de 10s
   Pueblos Indigenas. El Banco Mundial e n s u informe numero 27604 KO pubiicado e n fecha 20 de
   enero de 2004, remarca que el proyecto impulsa la OB 4.20 ya que apoyara la demarcacibn 3'
   titulacion de tierras ancestrales indigenas y afro - hondurerias en nombre de esos pueblos. En el
   mismo informe se afirna qw para curnplir con la OD 4.20, un Plan de Desxrollo de 10s Rieblos
    Indigenas (PDPI) ha sido preparado por e l Gobierno. El docurnento sigue actclarando que
    basindbse e n la participacion informada (remarcan 10s profesionales dei EM que necesitan
   docurnentos sobre un proceso de consulta el PCPij intenta asegurar que        !OSh e b i o s indigenas,
    no se vean adversamente afectados por el proyecto y que reciban beneficios sociales y econbmicos
   culturaimente compatible.
   3) Sin embargo, a pesar de cuanto previsto pcjr la OD 4.20 y de! proceso de consi.i!ta llevado a
    cabo por e! Gobierno sea con respecto a !a Ley de Propiedad, punt?.de Ianza del rnarco normat.ioo
    e n el que se niueve e! proyecto, que en relstci6n al PATH, h a sido inadecuaao y, mas que todo,
    ninguna de la sugerencias brindnda por       ~ G Spueblos Gariiunas de Honduras ha sido tenida e n
    cuenta por el Gobierno en la redaccibn de les rnedidas de ejecucion del prqectn. Dicha
    circunsiancia azota ias expectativas de jzsticia de!         pueblo garifuna y por io tanto las
    comuniddes, vikndose amenzedas e n s u rnisma sobreviviencia c o i m pueblo, e n consideracibn
    del gran y vital apego A ierritorio ancestral y 10s recursos naturales de esas &Ireas, y sin poder
    exciuir el surgiiniento de prubienias de gobernabiiidad. 'iigados con dichos acor~tecimientos,
    someten a la atencibn de 10s funcionarios del Banco la presente denuncia fundarner,tada e n ias
    siguientes vioiaciones:

pueblo gariittm y ccnzras~a~te        COT? la ilorniativa inrernacioi-,al soSre 10s derechos tsrritoriaies
i 11digenas.
Enefecto el ?11sti-umenTodispuesto por el poder legisiativo para concretar el marco legal akededs;.
del proyecto PATH ha si& el Decreti, 84 -200.1. conterriente la Ley de Propiedad.
Ess. Ley ha sido duramente criticada ya e n su fase embrional por el pueblo gmXuna q u e
entrsveia 10s peiigros del cuerpo normativo cjue se !e proporcionaba como pznegirico a 10s
problemas de tenencia de tierra que agobian el pais. En la unica reunibn de consuita sobre la
iiueva ley, ilevada a cabo en la corni1nida:! garifuna d e San Juan Tela, ias fuerzas visras se
opusieron firmemente a las introaucciones en el sisterna de teneiicia de tierra postuiadas pol- la
nencicnada ley e n consicieracibn de que esa por un iado cristdizaria las situaciones de
violaciones de derechos territoriales ?a existente (1egitima.ndo de tal manera las invasiones de
forkneos e n !as tierras Citcladae n d o n i r k p!ex E favor de ias comurCdades gariiilnasj 4 por otro
lado empujljaria hacia una dinarnizacijn de! rnercado de la tierra a favor exclusivo de las elites
dorninarites e n desprecio del derecho consuetudinario indigena, reconocido a nivel internacional y
domestico, y violentando las normas petricas que tutelan la posesion de la tierra del pueblo
hondureiio como se ha dado ejeinplo en el cas0 del desarrollo dd'Proyecto Bahia de Tela, !levado
a cab0 en &bierto desprecio del articuio 107 de la Constituci6ii de la Republica. El aspect0 mas
preocupante es que la mencioiiada ley, aprobada a pesar de las duras criticas reinarcades en !a
fase de consulta, conforma el marco normativo al cual se ajusta la politics operacional del Banco
Mundial, ente prestatario de 10s fondlos del proyecto FATH, distorsionando de tal rnanei-a el
enfoque "proteccionista" de la Politica Operacional 4.10 del Bhl, relacionada CGE 10s pueblos
indigenas. En septiembre de 2004, el Banco y s u Junta de Directores reconoci6 que "!os pueblos
indigenas pueden ser especialmente vulnerabies a proyecios que les afecten debido a sus
especiaies vinculos colectivos con sus tierras, territorios y iecursos naturales''

 Por lo tanto, e n el cas0 que nos ataiia el Gobierno de fionduras viola !as disposieiones dictndas
 por el BM e n cuanto adopta criterios para apiicar una legislecih que, si por un lado ofrece una
 apariencia lexical conforrne a 10s estandares internacionales del d.erecho indigena en el concreto
 se trasnmuta en un instrumento de precisibn para desbaratar cualescjuier reclamo territorial de
 10s pueblos indigenas. El Estado !leva a cabo esa operaci6n de ciriigia legislativa redizando un
 corpus nornativo desarticulado, C Q varios normas que se contradicen entre si, y no apt0 para la
                                            ~
 tutela de los derechos de 10s pueblos indigenas, Al respecto sedalamos que si poi un lado con e!
 articuio 93 de la mencionada Ley e l Gobierno ?ecoi?oce y sanciona la importgncia de 10s derechos
 ancestrdes de ICs pzeblos indigenas, sin embargo establece normas que afectan directa jr
 duramente 10s lrlisirios pueblos indigenas. El articulo 97 de la mencionada Ley, el c a d dispone
 que el tercero que tenga iiiulo depropiedad en tienas de estos p ~ by que      l ~ha~tenido y poseido ia
  tierra amparaciapor ese titulo, tiem derecho de corntimarposey&izdo!a y explofbrrdola, !egitima las
 invasiones de foraneos en territorio indigena. Ese articulo de la ley vioienta directarrierke los
 derechos consuetudinarios a las ticrras azrriba rnenciocados y asornbra que pueda ser una de :as
 reguias juridica que constituye e! marco iiormativo de Uil proyecto apoyado por el BM e! c u d eri
  sus recientes reuniones ha definido 10s rncncionados derechos cemo 10s pairones ds uso
  cor?ltl!iita~o proiongado de in tierra y de &osrecdrsos de amerdfi con las leges consuetudinarins, las
  valores, lus casturnbres y ias trctdiciones de 10spueblos indigenas, incluido el us0 es!ocronal, mas
  q1:c el tifuio juridic0 fomal sobre la tlerra y ios recursos exped-ldopor el Estiido.

  El articulo 100 de la Ley, esta5ieciendo p e ias 4nismacoi;..unidai=as podrdn poner .fin a eslc
  regimen co~izinal,cisrtorizcir ,crrendamie:ztas a favor de if2rCeFGS o autorizar coniratos de otra
  natijrdeza cjue perrLiIanla participaziSn de la coxnunidad e n inversiones q u e contribiiysr? a si;
  desarrol!o, inclusive legitims la atomization del titulo comunitario otorgados a las comuriidades,
  borrando de un solo golpz todos !OS avances alrededos de 10s derechos ancestrdes colectivcs,
  ultimo batuiirte pari la sahiguardia y sobrevivencia de una minoris Ctnica, rematando de t d
  n;anera las aspiracioaes y esperanza de :ado cn a una digria en el respecto de su propia cuitura 5'
  sdores. Dicho articulo ha desplegado y 2 sils nefastos efeectos, alentardc de manera desz?esuraria
  1c.s inten:os de cornpara ilegidma de tierra e n todas !as coinunidades Gzifunas de Is cos      -


                                                      2

Bj \'!0Ld4CICN DEL P.4RR4FO 24.X DE LA 30 4.10
i k ~ p~erreqi~isitos
      s              para ?inPlciii de Des.;rrs:llo e.m'rosode :os p:l&ios irr.l'fgenctssoli its si,pienteS~~:
~ 1 .La cI~liieen el diserio de progectos ES IC preparcicr'6n de un plon de desar~oiloailitrrc~lmente
      upro-picdo bas ad^        1~ p l e t ~consideracibz de la;- opcionp~prefe,e&s
                                             ~                                                p r [a pob!ocib?;
      ill&ggzIrn.
t. ias ittstr'iucr'onesrespo?isGb!eS
     deberan yoseer lu expenenciu social, tecnica y legal necesariapare !!evar a caboindigenas
                                       6:: !a interui-cidiz de; gobierno con 10spueblos
                                                                                                 las aciiin'dades
     de desarroilo propuestas. LQSarreg!os de         impkmentaci6n debsrcin manierierse en un nice!
     simpk, Estos noi-malmente -debercin inuolucrar a las instituciories exisien.tes apropladcis.
     organizacfones ?ocales y cirganizcrciones          EO   gubernamentales con expertos e71 asu?itos
     relacioncdos con Ios pueblos iii&genas.
d. Los patrones    ~ O C ~ ! Cde
                              S n.rCaxbzncr'4tzSSC~O!,las cr,-rncias ~ % j c i s c zy~elUSQde recursos deijeir
     ser tornados en comideracidn en el diserio delplan

La sobredicha violation se concreta en la circunstancia que el Gobierno no ha considerado
ninguna de las oliservaciones del p e b l o garifuca en el disefio-delPDI en cuanto dicho Flan ha
sido redactado sin ninguna consu!ta c3n 10s pueblos indigenas o con 10s lideres dc las
federaciones q u e les representan. Solo sucesivaniente a s u redaccibn, el FDI ha sido entregado a
10s miembros de las ONGs, cornc e n e i cas0 de la OFPdIL'GH la cual socializo s u contenido coil
representantes de las 46 comunidades que conforinan el pueblo garifuna de Honduras, reunidos
en asamblea plenaria e n Sambo Creek e! 17 de diciernbre del 2004.

Las observaciones y sugerencias de ias fuerzas vivas de ias comunidades y de 10s micmbros de 12
federacih, que fueron recogidas e n un Informe - Memoria anexado a1presente documento, jamas
han sido anahadas y utilizadas por 10s representantes del PATH en Honduras. Par lo tanto, el
reglamento de la Ley de Propiedad, reciln emanado e n el marco del Plan de Deszrrollo Indigena
$el PATH en desprecio de fas sugerencias mencionadas, denoninado Metodologia para
determinar y medii- las tierras a ser tituladas a las comunidades etnicas - documento y elaborado
por la UnidadCoordinadora de Proyecto (UCP) del PATH, presenta Ias incongruencias normativas
que ya fuercn objeto de critica poi- parte de !os pueblm indigenas.
ijor ejemplo valuamos ccmo inaciecuados 10s rnecamismos de resoiuciones de 10s conflictos sobre
la tierra instituidos con ei mencionado reglainento (mesa interetnica, coaciiiaciones etc.'!
Los expertos de l a WCP, en el docirmento arriba citado, afirman que "en 22 generalidad de las
 comunidudes etizicas que poseen u n titulo de dmninr'n ancestral, se mrrn$?esta el hecho que la
 tgtalidad de las tierras que poi- tradicidn reconocen como propias, no concuerda con la cabida
indicada en sus titulos, pero tal sltuuacibii no f i e iin obstacub para el reconocimiento de li:-ideros y
 ;nediciones efectzdudas por el INA     Q   ciertas comunidades dtnicas, en especial aquellas don& las
 &reas denunciadas colindabaiz con otras t d ~ ascon Terrene National; si: pretension no aj3ctaba
 sitios pfivados colindantes     G predios kgalmente adcpindos por terceros o porque, la extensibn del
 terreno no rebasabn !OSiinites demarcadcs coli anterioridad por el Catastro Ncicional.
 Asi rr,ismo las compras de :errem que el Estado ha efectuado, para satisfGcer 20s reqzzerinri'sntosde
 tiera de van'us comurridodes de ckzerminado gnqwo ernico, junto al precedznte antes refe;ido, ha
 refgrzado la concepcibtl indigena de que a: resto de Ius corn-unidades tn'bales, yue si &nen
pi-oblemas de tenencia de tierre, se les tiene qtie reconocer por igucrl>stl derecho ancestral sobre !a
 tctalidad de las tierrils en pi-etznsidn, awiando a eilo Ia conviccibn de que ei ur2Iculo 346 <-!ein
 Corrstikcibn y io5 preceptos del Conuenio i 69 de la OIT les drrn la potestad de reclamor pa2-i si' el
 &re&s      deposesidn sctbre todo lo que consideran su terntoria
 Tai percepcidn ha sido Line de ios nciyci-es cbstbculos a cencer pora poderlos dlsrtadir de szi
 pretension y lograr la aceptacier, ai trnzado pt-ri7net~ualde ias dreas que Iegalmenfe les perte~:e~e~z,
 respetando e! derecho que tambikrz les ~siste       a SI.LS vecinos coiindan?es, azcibn que de acuerdo a !a
 covplzjiduiad exiskiite en cadc comun.iciclndindigma o negm, denandai-a diversac estrategias.

         t~ espwsto zrriba      110corresponde de riinguna manera a la verdacl C Q respecto a kis ~
                                                                                          prr.b:en$t.ica sobre la
 '-.-*7
 Lsi2r,,-~ia tierrss que agobian 103 pueblos indigenas y negrss asi ccmo acrrciita e! !arg:c tists
         ntas actuaciones Ilevada a cabo For e l Gobierno para solucionar LRS
             de
 de iucha para ia defensa territoria!        cestrai de ins pii-bios indigenas. En e1 d o r x r ~ n t o 6.1 PA
 por uii lado se reccnoce ei gifo zivel probien:.kticr? de 10s as         ris relacionadas c m la :enercla d e


                                                       3

  tierra ancestral? sin embargo n o se propugnan necanismos de resolucicnes de conflictos
  adecuados a la meiicio~adaconsideracian. Entonces preocupa que se planteen instancias 6.c-
  resoliicihri de conflictos que no responden a la realidad sscia! y politlca. en la que viven 1 ~ s
  inicrnbros de 1a.s cornsnidades; no se puede pretender resoher confiictos que se rem-ontan a
  decenas de s.50~ atras a traves de mesas interktnicrz o procedimiento de conciliacifil?.
  concertacibr, o rnediacih dmde las disparidades de 10s intereses representados, elites de poder
  p D r iin lado y pueblos indigenas por el otro, no pueden sino deseinbocar e n resoluciones
  totaimente desfawrabk para 10s pueblos indigenas y negros.

   Por lo tanto, considerarida     e1 inpacto real sobre la tierras por parte del proyecto de: Bh?,
  exigiixos u.n claro reconocimiento y proteccion de 10s derechos territoriales ancestrdes de 10s
  pueblos indigenas que nc, Sean Jim-itados soio a !os rclaciansclcs con !a tierra rccoficjcid~tpor e;
   sistema legal nacional (tierra titulada) sino que abarquen 10s limites de 10s territorios
  ancestralmente de propiedad de esos pueblos (ampliaciGn),e n el respeto de cuaiito dispuesto por
  la DO 4.20.

  C. VIOLACION DEL PARIIAFO 15.a(ii)DE LA DO 4.20
    Marco Legal. El Plan debertc confener una eualuacidn de: la habilidad de dichos gnipos (peblos
   indigenas)para obtener a.cceso al sistema legal y usarlo efcazrnente para defender sus derechos.
   Deberk darse alencidn particular a 10s derechos de 10s pueblos indigena a user y desar-rollar las
   tierras cpe ellos ocupari, a ser profegidos coiitm intnisos ilegales y a te-JLeracceso a reczirsos
   naturales.
   La violaci6n se coricreta en la circunstancia que el Gobierno, en el h b i t o de la redaccion del PCI,
   n o ha remarcado la realidad de la situaci6n de acceso a lajusticia y solucion jurisdiccional de 10s
   conflictos de 10s pueblos indigenas y, e n particular del pueblo garifuna de hondutas. Nuestro
   encontrb y sigue encontrando difkultades serias para obtener acceso a1 sistema legal y se
   emuentra en la imposibiliciad material de aprovecharlo para defender siis derechos territoriales.
   Acreditamos cuanto dicho subrayando que las comuaidades Garifunas de: Triunfo de la Cruz,
   Caps Cochinos y h n t a Piedra, considerada. la heficacia total de las gestiones a nivei domestico,
   tuvi.eron que acudir a la Cornish Interamericma de Derechos Hurnanos pza tratar de
   sclucionar las problematicas ligadas COT: la tenencia de tierra ancestral.



   Se anexan 10s siguientes documentos:
   MemGria taller comulta S a Juan de Tela del 23 d-e).oetubre de 2003;
   Memoria. tdkr consulta asamblea general Safabo Creek del 17 de diciernbre de! 20G3
   Propuesta de proceso de coiistllta Tegucigalpa dei 21 de agosto de 22103




La Ceiba, 22 de Agosto del 2605


             Gambo Creek, La Ceiba, Atlntida 18 19 de Dicfembre del 2303
                                               J


En e! local que ocupa el Centro Comuna! de la Cornmidad Carifuna de Sambo
Creek, Municipio de La Ceiba, departamento de Atlimtida, con Ia participacibn de
169 representantes Garifunas de las coinunidades de:
Plaplarya, PrtebIo .iVuevo, Batalla, San Isidro Tocarnacho, %an Pedro
Tocarnacho, Cocalito, SangreBaya, San Josk de la Punta, I1-iona Viejo,
Ciriboga, Cusuna, h n t a Piedra, YalIerits, Lirnbn, Sahta Rosa de Aguan,
Crs'staEes y Rio Negro, Santa Fe, San Antonio, Wada!upe, Rio Esteban,
Clzachahuate, Nsreva Armenia, Sambo Creek, Corozal, Ceiba Mochu, La
Rtxita, Salacdip Ba~ra,T & ~ . Gde ZBE Cmz, Sara!Juan, Sararuaina, Bajamior,
Traaresia y Masca.




GBdETiVO GENEEiAL
Cesarroliar un proceso de ccnsulta con lideres y dirigentes Garifunas, sobre el
Prograv-a de Adrninistracion de Tierras e n Honduras, capitulo Plan de Desarrollo
Indigcna y Analisis Ambiental, encaminada a que 10s participantes conczcan, se
zpropien y brinderi sus observaciones     3sugerencias sobre dicho plan; asi rnismo
sobre el Programa de Reduccibn de la Pobreza enfocada a 10s heb!cs Indigenas 5'
Negros (REPEPIN).


      153 lidexes y representantes Gw3in:f.s crrnoceii y se apropian del Plan de
      Desarrollo indigena (administraci6nde Tierras)      37de: Anidisis Ambiental del
      Prograrna PATH.
      Se obtiene las observaciones de 10s representanres sohre 10s dos
      i;oculnzrlics.
      Se definen 10s mecarminos de apiicacijal del Plan con las comcnidades
      Garifunas.
      Los Meres Garifunas se tipropian y define11 s u posici6n respecto zl
      Prrigrama REPEPIN

DesarroEIo de la Activibad:
Se inicio la actividad irivocando a 10s ancestros, sc!icitAindoles sabiduria a 10s57
!as pzrticipantes para brindar sus riiejores ideas en e l analisis de discusicin de ios
docurnentos a analizar.

                                                                                                3

i.
i ) ~ C . > 1 1 P
      ,,,.Ls         de h i s actos ;ntroCuctcrizs,se procedi5 .zi integrar 10s grupos de trabajo,
para discutir el primer tema refirenle a la s i t u a c h de la tenellcia de tierra e n las
mmunidades Garifuiias:

Los cuales oueciaroii integrados de *dieate
                     A-                                          manera:
3rupL3 No. I                                       G9U$sQMO. 2
            1. Maria Ceiina Ceriteno                   1. Julia3 soiis
            2. Fatima Rodriguez                        2. .Jeny Sofia
            3. Dolores Alvarez
            4. I3ermensgildo Sozn                      3 . <JuanaCelestina Arzu
            5. Catarino Martinez                       4.. Julia Barrios
            6. Grzciela Dionisio                       5. Ana Lucia Castiilo
            7. Irma Batiz                              6. Nathan Pravia
            8. Hipolita Cliavez                        7. Sergia Arzu
            9. Amancio Arzu                            8. Cristina Perez
            10. Selvin Lopez                           9. Kerlyn Herrera
            1I. Martinez
                 Alonso                                                       " '

            12. Anael Guzman                            10.       Ronald Bennett
            13.Nestor Javier Ellis                     i 1.       Eliiert Ordoiiez
            14. Karla Bezedit                           i2;       Rufino Rigoberto
            i5. Nixon Adoifo                            13.       Teodora Mpez
                                                       14. Edilberta Cacho
Grups No. 3                                        Grupo No. 4
            i. JuanaGuityChavez                    1. Ana Gloria Plores
            2. Carmen Ynrleny Ruiz Gutierrez       2. Rlejandra Clother
            3. Jose Mariano Miranda                3. Dario .kvila C.
            4. Castulo Figueroa Suazo              1. Tito Casildo
            5. Rosario Bernardez                   5.  Perfecto Marin
            6. Teodocia Mejia                      5. Mathias Thomas
            7. Jorge Espinoza                      7. Reina Elsie Cordova
            8. Guillermo Figueroa                  3. Rossana Alvarez
            9. Zarlin Sarina Lamberth              2.  Michael Colbn Vargas
            10.Faustino Raiiiirez Sumo             10.Teresa Reyes
            11.Vivian Mejia                        11.Jose Francisco
            12. Carlos Barbarem Barcelona          12.Juan Thomas
            13.Jose Antonio Bermfidez              13.Jose Vargas
            14.Antonieta BoniEa Arana              14.Wilmer Alexander
            15.Teresa Garcia Oiiva                 15. Mariano Martinez
            16.Celia Maritza Guity                 15.Evelin Ruiz
                                                   17. Leorior FAtima
                                                   1s.Iris Garcia
&up0 No. 5                                         Grupo No. 6
            1. Rosa Lidia Tablads                  1.Justin2 FIcres
            2. Li-:is Castro                       2. Eduarda Avila
            3. Alix Fueiites                       3. Carlos Guevara
            4. Kelvin Herrera Medina Mauricio      1.Fagsto Fernardez
            5. Gladis Gutierrez Martinez           5. Liliari Green
            6. Maria Eriberta Robledo Ls6pez       5. Gladis Garcia
            7. Carlos Guevara                      7. Miriam Ayala
            6 . Melvin Ramirez                     5. Luis Gastro
            c j .Joel Francisco Dicgo              3 . Justo Reyes
            10.Er1,uardoAvila

i  El proceso de titulaci6n efectuadc poi- el INA no favorece a :as ~ornulrlidades~
i.
   sine mas Sien perjudico nuestra posesion ancestral, porque 10s titulos
   emitidos hasta la fecha no responden a :as necesidades reaies y de creciiiiiento
   de las comunidades, exister, casos extremos e n que Gnicarnente se han dotado
   be 63 hectkreas de tierra a cornunidades de mas de 2000 habitantes (tal es et.
   cas0 de San Juan, municipio de Tela-, depm?.arnerito de Atlantida).
3
W .Ls frontera agl-icela creciente hacia la zorm d.e Iriona y Gracias Dim, zmenaza
   la supervivencia y sobrevivenzia de todas las cornunidades Gsrifunas, que se
   ve agravado por la apertura de un trams czrretero entrc I i k i T a Viejo-Sico, el
   c u d ha sfectado la fuente de ageia de 6 comunidades Garifunas (San Jose de
   la Punta, Ciriboya, Sangrehya, IrionaViejo, Cocalito e Iribna Puerto), y en este
   momento existe el peligro de la construccion de otro..tramo carretero entre
   Cusuna y 10s Fales qGe vendrB a afectar a Cusunay Puiita Piedra.
3 . La falta de registro de !os titulos de propiedad de aigunas comunidades corm
    1a.s de 10s Cayos cochinos, desde 2001 fueron ernitidos dichos titglos y hasta
    ia fecha no lian sido registrados.
4. Existe un conflict0 de intereses entre las Wdnicipalidades y 12s cornunidades
    Garifunas, ya que-lasmunicipalidades se han dedicado a tomar decisiones sin
    consultar con las autoridades Garifunas y sin tomar e n cuenta la Autonomia
    Cornunitaria coiisignada en el Convenio 169 de la QIT. (Ejrn: Expropia-cidn de
    tierra comunal por parte de la Municipalidad; creacion de patronatos paralelos dentro de las
    comunidades por parte de ias Municipalidades; Venta cis tierra cornunal a foraneos por las
    municipalidades entre otros)
5 La rnultiplicidad de propiedad y dorninio que existe                  sobre las tierras y
    territorios Garifunas misi-nas que hail generado conflictos y violaciones de
    derechos hurnanos.
        a  Las areas protegidas y sus limites.
        Q  Ejicios municipales / eascos urbaiicjs
        a  Propiedades privadas / titulos indisiduaies
        0  Tierras nacionales
        a  Areas de uso turisticas / tierras vocacionales

        Q  ete
6- La no existencia de una verdadera politica de Estado hacia la resfiiuci6n de la
    probiem2tii.a de tierras de ias cornuaidades Garihnas.
7. Divisioizisrxo generado p r !os partidos politicos y religiosos.
e.  Falta de titulacibn, saneamiento y ampliacibn, ixicluyendo el area maritha
9, Ei desniantelarniento de ia economia de ios caetalerosl gmaderos y 10s
    productores de rnaiz, aficta directamente a1 pueblo Garifuna porqm eso
    pmvoca mayor migraciijn de ISS hacia nuestras zonas.
                                         ladinos
10.     La exclusih de 10s habitad de nuestros territorios hz venido a geiierar
    graves problemas en nuestra forma de vida.
11. Manipulacibn de !cs Patronatcs a. tr2:ks de ias i>i;lnicipi;!iddcs                     para
    prornc,ver las ventas y catastrar las comili>idades Garifmas.
     12.pp-&gida&
              La falta d e reconocimentz y participation e n e1 rnanejo de Ins &reas
                                     . .                     .,

   P En prir,er lugar 10s y las participantes concuerdan que el documento esta
      planteado desde un p.jnto tknico y practico de c6mo se pretende
      desarrollar el proceso de titu:lacic5n de :as tierras, sin tomar e n cuer,ta ia
      realidad axtual de las comriniciades; todas o casi todas las comunidades
       Garifunas enfrentan diversos problemas e n la tenencia de tierra.
   k Nos preocupa que se planteen instancias de resoiucihn de connictos que no
       responden a 1s realidad de las comunidades, el pueblo Garifuna cue-tl a con
                                                                             l
       s u   propio      sistema    c k organization    tradiciona!,  10s   consejos
       departamentales de desarroilo, son desconocid.os por las cornunidades,
       adernas :io se puede pretender resolver nuestros con-flictos a traves de
       instancias que han sido infuncionales; e n ese sentido n o aceptamos la
       creacion de comites comunales q1-e vendran a sustituir el papel de las
                                                             ..,-
       organizaciones cornunitarias Garifunas.
   k Exigimos que nuestras comunidades Sean consuitadas previo a la creacion
       de la Unidad de Aszintos Indigenas y Afrohondurefios, citada e n la pagina
       13 del Plan de Desarrollo Indigena, nos parece atentatorio qile se pretenda
       crear una instancia a la cual se le dara facuitades tan delicadas como lo es
       la resoluci6n extralegal de 10s confiictos de tenencia de tierra que enfrentan
       nuestras comunidades.
   9 Necesitamos que se nos brinde copia del informe de la socializaci6n del
       Documento Plan de Desarrollo Indigena, realizada en e! mes de octubre, la
       cua.1 proponernos sea entregada para la realizaci6n de las consuitas
       com.r_lnales.
   3 En cuanto a !a nota enviada por el Ing. Rodolfo Lkmrez,director general de
       Orga.nizaci5n y Participaci6n Ciudadana del Minister-io de Goberriazi6n y
       Justicia, donde manifiesta que se ha creado la Mesa Nacionai lnciigena,
       a.ntes conocida coin0 Junta Consuitiva Nacional Indigena, este punto en
       particular no es cierto porque dicha mesa aun no se ha concretado, ya que
       no es UR consenso de 10s todos 10s pueblos.


Iratrsduecibn
Los pueblos indigenas y 10s conservacionictas coil frecueficia nm encontranios
~ i f ~ ~ > t a da od;t-ersds confiicios de intcreses. Eli nu poias ocasiones 10s
                    s                                  7


objetivos de canservacihn de 10s ecosisternas y de la biodixrsidad apareeen c ~ m o
conrradktorios a 10s o't;jedvos de garantizar el ejjercicio pieno de 10s derechos de
10s pueblos indigenas.

                                                                                             6
pol-      om:; por lo que ia politics irripiernentada ha sido !a de consep.Tacibn sin
gertte. D e ahi que       !OS conservacioiiistas propu.grLen corn0 soIii.cidn a1 fieterioro
al=.rmante de !os ecosisteinas la delimiracih de areas naturales que deben :er
pnsstas a salvo d e !as actividades humanas.


17- c
i c,,akiEri flay qvic mcncionar que 10s conservacionisins consideran en sus an&i!isis
10s eiectos del deterbro ambiental pero se han despreocupado bastante S G ~ E el
estudio de sus camas reales. No s o b n acotar que, paradhjicamcnte, e n ios
~ t r r n o saiios iian sido !as grancks empresas transnacionaies, principates ageztes
de      eontaminacih         y    deter:oro   ambienta!,  las   que    hac     apoyado      e!
conservacionisrno a la espera que a traves de la biorevoluci6n se obrengan
grandes dividendos
                         ~




Los pueblos indigenas proponelnos una ccncepci6n mas amplia de la naturaleza
y de la relacih entre 10secosistemas y 10s pueblos y sociedades que viven dli.En
esa direccidn aportamos no s610 una critica a la separacion artificial entre seres
hlimanos y naturaleza, sin0 que afirmamos la urgencia de subsanarla radicai y
creativamentc. SegAn nuestras Idgicas, puesto que la naturaleza inciuye rambiin
a 10s seres humanos, se debe analizar y reflexionar acerca de1 papel de la
humanidad dentro del mundo natural, especlficarnente el caracier. la forma y la
estructura de las relaciones humanas respecto de las dernas especies y de 10s
sustratos inorg&nicos del entorrio biologjco. Para 10s pueblos indigenas es
importante apuntar a ia identification de 10s problemas ambientah, su origen,
sus causas y sus posibles soluciones, desde la preinisa que la crisis del rnedio
ambiente se deriva de problemas sociales que tienen que ver fundamentalmeate
con uiia inelltalidad y un sistema de relacioiies basados en la dorniiiacibn y las
jerarquias.

El reconocirniento de 10s derechos de ios pueblos idigenas per parte de algunzr
organizaciones conservacioriistas esta dando paso a1 surgimiento de un 1 1 ~ e ~ o
modelo de conservacibn que involucra las necesidades de 10s pueblos indigenas y
la sostenibilidad de nilestras culturas y formas de vida tradicionales. El desafio
que hay por deiante, entorkces, es el de comolidar este nuevo rnodelo de
PonservaeiCn para evitar que se quede solo en retOrica y e n declaracimes de
principios. La crisis ecoijgica tan profunda que se est& vivieiido nos obliga a
h c e r reaks ias aiianzas estratkgicas entre pueblos iildigenas y organizacronis
conseriiacionistas.

 Los conservacionistas que esthn comprometidcs COR la cmstruccidn de aiianzas
 sdidas y solidarias con 10s pueblos indigenas 4ian dado paws significatiuos en la
 eia.boraci6n de una nzeva perspectiva dc CGiiservaci6il. Es asI come, desp~&sde
 tin diglogo de cerca de tres alios entre el Fond6 Mu?~dialpara la Naturdeza, WWF
 Ifiternacir3nai, y !a Aiianza. Mundial de Ins Pueblos Iridigeizas y Tribaks cie 10s
 Bosques Tropicaies, e n m-ayo de 1993 ia iX,;WFInternacional apr~bbUP,^ i-io!icica  r-
 refereilk a ia coilservacihn y 10s pueblm indigenas que secoge 10s principios 3;
 posttilados del actiial Proyecto de Declaracion de las Naciones Unidas Solxe !os
 Derecfim de 10s Pueblos Indigenas y7 coilsecuentemei2te con ello, reccnoce 10s
 derechos territoriales de 10s pueblos indigenas y destaca e i prx-mpio de        . . .

 ~      o      ~    s pre.t-i~,libre ~ infc1rpAadnpara iudas~ fas ~reiaciones; cr2tre
                         ~    ~      e    ~    ~ .-,*i  ~              ~          ~  . - '3i!JS
                                                                                        1 ?



 T *
 ;,,digenas     y organizaciones consewacionistas.

                                                                                         7
      :a a~~is,ma   iripLl:i3rpL, ;a Uni6n Ir;ternacional para la Conser, ;-ciGn <-e 12
E?.+;
  G.Ld-l;-aleza,  UICN, e n el ConoreSo Mundial de Conservaci6n celebi-ado en
                                         b
M c r a ~ e a l(C.zixtda), entre e! 12 y ei 24 de octubre de l996, aprobb varias
Resolxiones referenLes a 10s pueblos indigenas, en donde se cornpromete
Grmernente a q u e ias politicas de censervaci6n se real ice:^ siempre en
concordancia       COR e!    Broyecto de Deciaracibn de 12s Maciones Unidas Sobre 10s
DWX~GS 10s Pueb!os Indigenas, asi corn0 a respetar 10s derechos territoriales
              de
y coleztivos de 10s pueblos indigenas e n todas !as areas protegidas.

Y estc compromiso se reaiirma en el Quint0 Congreso l\ilimdiai de Parques
realizado e n Durban (Sudafrica) durante el mes de Junio del 2003, donde sc
eruerda entre ctras         C S S ~ S
                                    que para e! pr5ximo dczenio impulsar:
     k Una mayor participacion local y un mayor pocler be decisih local e n la
        gobernanza y la gesti6n de las &reas protegidas.
     P Un mayor aprovechamiento de 10s conocirnientos tradicionaies y otros
        conocirnientos para rnejorar la gestibn.

Ea OFRANEH, ha venido participando e impulsarido la realizacibn de actividades
de acercamiento y concertacicin entre las comruiidades Garifunas, OiVGs,
ambientalistas y 10s entes gubernamentaks,               C G ~
                                                             e l propbsito de fortalecer la
cornprensibn y las alianzas e n !a conservaei6n del medio ambiente.

Sin embargo es sumarnente preocupante el deterioro de 12s relaciones entre las
cornunidades y las organizaciones invoiucradas o encargzdas de administrar ias
areas protegidas en las zonas Garifunas. De todcs es sabido la situacibn de
zozobra que se vive e n 10s cayos Ccchinos, la falta de relacionamiento entre las
comgnidades y la fuundacicin de Capiro y Calentura; a 10 que se sunia la situaci6n
qce se vivc e n las coinunidades Garifuunas de la zona de Tela, donde se a c m a a
PROLANSATE de designar delegados o enlaces sin el consentimiento de !a
corn-unidad, asi come algo mucho mas grave de haber promovidn la muerte de un
jos7en de la comunidacl de Miami-Tornabe.


Anhlisis delPrograma REPEPIN
ASPECTOS SOCIOECONOMICOS
E! pueb!o Garif1.m~ha side gPrante de ima de la.: &reas: de mayor bindiversidad
del pais, siendo parte de nucstra cr;smovisih una reIaci6n intima cGn ia
naturaleza, a! iguzl q ~ 10s otros pueblos indigenas con 10s que corcpartimos rl
                                   e
Ltorai caribefio, hemos cultisado la consewacidr? corn0 la fuente de nueslra
 subsistencia.

 E n las ultirnas dkcadas la- costa nm-te se ha vista w j e t a a un "desaxrdo" el c u d
 ha afcctado directamente el bienestar de niAestras comunidades, siendo 12s
 transnixionales bananeras y palmeras las encargadas de 2fecta.r airecta.mente I:.
 ricpeza hio!bgica y cultlzrai de la zona.

 La atisencia de una t-erdadera po!Stica agraria nacional ha dado iirgar a fren'ites de
 cdonizaci6n que viezen devorando 10s i-ecursos foresxales de !as &reas protegidas
 existexites e n Ia costa norte. Ea apertura del ker,te de colonizaci6n ciei rio Sic0 y
 Paulaya ha conllevado a !a destrrreci6n de !a zs~za1rion.a: si12 qme el Estacls hzya
 "iornado !as medidas pertineztes para la proteccibn amnienta-i., -

                                                                                       8
1
&TI   eI coiltexto eccnhmico regional existe un desn;anlelarniento
      ..                                                              de las eccjriomias
traalcioilaies (cafe, ganaderia,    v   UI~F ~ ~ ucercaiic el rnaiz) accior;es que estan
                                                  r o
                                                                    ~


incrementando la pobreza a niive! iiacional, a pesar de la ret6rica oiieial y de 10s
organisrnr;x iilternacionaies be 12 sup:zesta reduccion              de la pobreza. La
giobaiizacib corporatiira y 10s subsidiss por part.2de 10s paises indxstrializados a
su agricultura ispiden unverdadero desarroiio sostenible.

Los niveles de pobreza de 10s pueblos indigenas esta iigado de forma i~11im2a !os
procesos de colonialisnio interno que se vienen dando desde hace m&s de 500
afios y prosiguen por niedio de politicas ambiguas de supLresta incorporacibn a
10s ejes pi-oductivos.

En 10s Gltimos atios ha surgido un inter& inusitado de parte de 10s organismos
internacionales sobre 10s pueblos indigenas, dado que la rnayoria de las zonas de
reserva se encuentran dentro de nuestros territorios . ancestrales, 10s que
desgraciadarnente carccen de un reconocin-lientojtiridico; (10s titulos que se han
otorgado han sido una estafa juridica ya que se les exchyo el habitat funcional
de las comu%dades) lo que significa, que exclusivarnenye se titulo el casco
urbano de las comunidades Garifunas.

La OFRANEH ha venido cabildeando una rectificacih de la politica estatal de
t i t u l a c i h de las cornunidades Garifunas, con un s6lo cas0 parcial de
saneamiento, dado en la coixmidad de Sambo Creek, la que despuks de             ~ G S
                                                                                    afios
de reclainos y de sufrir una violenta represi6n y acoso, logr6 que se le retornaran
 10.3 manzanas de tierra, que apenas cubren las necesidades habitacionales de
 178 farniiias, sin que se logre recuperar la rnqoria del casco de la cornunjdad
reconocida por e! titulo expedido por el Estado a traves dei institute naciona!
Agraric?y que se encuentra e n rnanos de terratenieiites forheos.

 La reduccion de la pobreza como se pretende, entra e n contraste con 10s Tratados
 de libre comercio y planes de inegadesarrcllo planteados por e l PPP, TCL, y ei
A K A , 10s que persisten e n mirar las          soluciones desde un punto de vista
 macroecoiidmico, desalentando las cpcicnes lo~alese irnplementado conceptos de
 desarrollo que no caben dentro de nuestras cosrnovisiones Sasadas en una
 economia de subsistencia que nos faculta la eonsenwA6n de la izaturaieza.

 POIFLACION BEXEFICZARIA
 Los Garifunas e n H.ondu;as      sobiqxsamcs 10s 200.000 laabitantes, localizadcs e n
 48 cornunidades       ;i
                        lo largo de! litora!, adem6s de asentarnientos en 10s barrks de
 Ssri Pedro y Tegucigalpa. Desde mediados del slglo pasado se ha. dado !ugar a
 una fuerte migracr6n hacia a !os Estados Unidcs, sin que se pierda el sentido de
 ias rakes I-Ior,dxel?as y el apego a! lugar de origen.

                                                                                          9
optan pnr sus recetas de desarrolio de man.era iz;flexible, siernpre tratando de
ejercer' uii coritro! pol~tico-ezon6micosi!? teiier rwdcados co~icretos.

La OFEL4NEH en sus casi ires dkcadas de existencia ha sido testigo de las
i:icc.:igruencias    de ias politicas do Estado hacia 10s pueblos indigerias y negros.
La asimilaci6n sigrie sieqdo el eje rector de las r&cioiiCs                estado- pueblos
indigenas y ccgros,        C G d l & V d l l d D a unapermanenre crisis e n las relaiiones
int9rinsti~~cionales.

-1
EA  procesc de descer,tra!izacihn se ha convertido en una tramp, dado que las
Inunicipalidades carecen de cwlquier indicio de sensibilidad hacia 10s pueblos
indigenas y negrns, y han procedido- incluso en municipalidzdes m~,nzjxiz.spar
tiuestros propios liei-rrian@s- ha rner?oscabarla intlegridad territorial de nuestras
cornunidades.

Si existe un proceso de autonomia municipal, iguaimente deberia existir la
autonomia de 10s pueblos indigenas, corn0 una forma de proteccijn a la
diversidad cultural la cual se encuentra ligada de forma intima con la
biodiversidad. Es rnaniiesto que cuando 10s pueblos indigenas y negros haljlan
de autoiiornia se considera e! t6pico como un acto de socavamiento del Estado,
vision qEe entra en contradiccih con la pubiicitada autonoinia municipal.

DESlnRRBLI,O ECONOMIC0
Las relaciones interinstitucioiiales se ven enfr:E-escadas en u;1conflicts de visiones,
ya que el concepto de desarrollo promovido desde el centro siernpre ha irnplicado
UT?sometimiento       de la periferia. En el cas0 Garifuna ha sido desrnantelada e n un
 buen sector de nuestro territorio la economia informal de subsistencia sin cpe se
 hayan tejido r-cspuestas adecuadas. E1concepto de desarrollo estirnuladc hasta la
 fecha, implica. una participacion marginal e n 10s esquemas econornicos
 existentes,

 La m-uerw del coco ha side una de 10s m6s graves acontecimlentos de las tihimas
 dkcadas para nuestro pueblo. El COCCI proveia de fuentes de Ingresss para la
 mapria de ia poblacibn, a1 rnismo tiernpo que era parte integral de ia dieta
 tradicional. i o s procesos de replantasikr, han carecido de una respuesta
 adecuada por parte de! estado, incluso podemos asegurar que hasta !a fecha n o
 existe iiza respuesta a la prvbicrnjtica de la r t p l a n i a c i h de las 6.000 heeiAr-eas
 de plantaciones de coco que existian e n Honduras. ias playas pasarori de           Sei- un
 supuesto atmctivo tiiristic0 a paisajes yei-rmos, con el agravante del incremento de
 la e r o s i h costera, a1no existir una cobertura vegetal que prote-ia la franja costera
 de la acci6n del viznto y el mar.

                                                                                     10
Ei ii~sinaiiteinmienL~ apsrato productivo qtx h2 sufrido Honduras est5
                           dei
lipds entre otrm a Ea ailsencia dc acccso ai crkE~o.Es obvio cj~lelas asa as de
inxeri-s prevalecieiites irnpocibilitan !a obtenciiin de! mismo y e n C ~ S Ode que se
Logre soil pr6srariios de alto riesgo, dada las taszs de interis qae colindan con la
usura. Es bemagogia crear ia ilusi6n de una eventual soliucibn a 10s problenizs de
acceso a 10s capitales por rnedio de hipctocar cuestrag tierras, ya que la perdid&
d e l patrirnonio ancestral bajo la fkrula de 12s entidades bancarias n o es nias que
una pesadilla concreta que exacerbara a niedida de !a individualizaci6n de la
propiedad.

Las expei-iencia de las cajas rurales e n el mundo Garifuna han tenido seriss
lirnitaciones, ya que no se contemp16 bajo ninguna circunstancia la 1itiljzarj6n de
sistemas tradicionales de apoyc rnutuo comc e l Vagasu,                sistema que fu.c
desdedado por ios agentes del Banco Mundial y ei Fondo Hondurefio de Inversibn
Social, prescindiendo del conocirniento cornunitario tradicionai. El sistema de
capitalization en base a1 apoyo rnutuo es utilizado entre 10s Garifunas, sin
ninguna vincuiacibn con las tasas de inter& que frecuentemente restan toda
credibilidad de las cajas rurales.

DESAWIIBLLO DEL CAPITAL HUMANO.
El proceso de la "educaci6n formal" del pueblo Garifuna se ha visto vincdado
m8s a la visibn occidental quz a las necesidades concretas de nuestro pueblo. La
profesionalizaci6n se ubica e n su rnayoria e n 10s campos de la educacibn y salud.
Existen numerosos maestros y enfermeras, muchos de                     ellos no logran
incorporarse a1 rnercado laboral.

 i a s cclrnunidades poseen e n s u gran mayoria acceso a la educacion hasica,
 siendo necesario recurrir a la rnigracierr a las ciudades para obtener lina
 escolarizaci6n mas alla dc la primaria.

 En el aspecto tkcnico el INFOP proporciona capacitacibn ticnica en las ciudades,
 a donde tiene que ernigrar 10s potenciales esludiantes, 10s que no poseen 10s
 rnedios econbmicos se encuentran excluidos de reclbir la educacibn forma!, lo q'i!e
 se ha convertids en un requisito fundamental para la incorporaci6n en el
 rnercado laboral en s11mayaria localizado en 10s centm urbanos.

 ELPRBGPZaMAREPEPIN
 Los objetivos especificos del programa sefialan          (1) el fcirtalecimiento de las
 instituciones comunales, locales y regionales, asi      C O ~ Gde las instituciones del
 gobierno. E s de esperar que dicho fcxtalecimiento tenga objetlvos ciaros e
 independientes de cualquier actividad divisionista y de sometimiento        CGT-IWse ha
 fraguado con programas anteriores, q'ue han venido a fomeztar e1 paralelisrno
 como via de control.
 Los tres puntos menciofiados como base del programa se sefiaia que se "hark
 bzjo rrn modalidad particlpativo qiie asegxe el desarroilo de estris ccrnunidades
 C G ~ identidad propia". Enfatizamos que es neoesario e! respeto a esta modalidad,
 c g e e n la rnayoria de 10s casos n o trasciende el papei.

                                                                                        11
GQMT?CbXENTEXI,         DESrhRRBLLO ECOIU'Oh!i.ICO
Las actividades a seguir deben ser determinadPs por !os pueblos, no en base a las
expectativas de reorientar nuestras economias a. la dependmcia be mercados
foriiirieos que se encuentran determinaclos por una economia global. Ante todo se
debe fomeritas-la seguridad alimenticia.

COMPQXEMTE III.DESAltaR0Ek.Q HUMAN0
La saiud preventisra             ha sido deteriorada ante la perdida be la seguridad
aiimenticia y la introduccibn de una medicina occidental si11 ha.ber afianzado la
medicina tradiciona!. Ante el desrnantelamiento de! sistema de medicina
occidental corno parte de 19s ajustes estructuralcs, n o contemplamos que existari
las respuestas adecuadas, tal corno ha sucedido con el VIH, batalla en la que se
perdicj una dkada clave jafios go), y actualmente se nantiene un trabajo
superficial sin por ejemplo haber asumido la tarea de evitar la transmisibn
vertical de la enfermedad, debido a la ausencla de carnpafias efectivas dirigidas a
las mujeresj6venes.                                               ..
                                                                    I




Elcas0 del SIDA es unflagelo de consecuencias incalculables para10s Garifunas,
10s que vernos corno se derrochan 10s dineros del fondo global, comprando
antiretrovirales de marca, mientras 10s genericos de CIPLA no son abordados
como una soluci6n inmediata y economica (ejemplo cpe viene dando Medicos siii
Fronteras).

EJZCWCION
La evaluacibn inmediata del proyecto FAPIN es una serla necesidad, ya que 10s
resultados hasta la fecha no se visibilizan. La UEP debe explicar e n consultas
cornunitarias 10s logros de sus propijsitos.


     Proponemos que el mecanismo de resolucibn de ccnflictos sea definido por
     nuestras comunidades, para lo cual se cleberhn realizar jornadas de consulta y
     definici6n de estrategias; acordes con la realidad de las cornunidades. No hay
     que perder de vista que las comunidades presentan diferentes nive!es de
     problematica, algunos problem-as son con ir,dislduos, stros COE campesinos,
     smpresarios, politicos, empresas multinacionales y hasta con el misino
     Estado.
     Ret-hazamos categbricawnerrte 13. inststaci6n de rnesss de negociacibn de
     cor,flictoc donde se mezclen 10s pueblos indigenas y negros, campesinos y
     pationatos; rnuchos de 10s problemas en irruestras cornunidades se debe a qiie
     lo3 campesinos se hall trasladado a nuestros territorios, se apoderan de
     nuestras tierras, Fara posteriormente venderlas a1 rnejor postor.
     Exigimos que todas las co,munidades Garifuna sean previamente informadasy
     consulcadas sobre el F?P, Tratads de Libre Comercio, Ccrredor BiolGgico
     Mesoamerican0 y el PATH, sentimos que la implementacibn de estos
     programas generara la extermiizaciin de todas las ccn~znidadesGarihnas e
     indigems de Honduras.
     Rectificar cada ' ~ i t ~de  l ola comunidad y establecer iin plan de sai-&earnicntode
     todais las cornilnid~;ics Garifmas.
     F'rcmover la adopc%r! de rcedidas *catitelares pa-a le resolucibn de tcdos fos
     conflictos que e n materia de tenenciz de tierra enfrectan 'ids cornrrnidndes
     Earifunas en generril.
     AnuIaciCil bel. Casco Urk:ano municip;;!
      -L-- - - - * - -__.-                              de ;as co-.nunida.des   Garif~nas
                          - 1.--I-
                                 ._

                                                                                         12
Y E-'rcsmover ia utv!aciin de la tierra cornunal, asi coxo ei saneamiento y
  arnpliacirjn del txrrtorio comunitzsio Garifuna, en el marco del Co;~vzniai69
  de la CJIT y 'la Ganvenci6n Anisricana de ios Derechos Eumanos y la

> Constitercirjn de la Republica.
  Manifestar la preocupach de La Aslmbiea2sobre el Prop6sito del Gohierno al
  generar una titulaci6n rnasiva, lo que afectara dircctamente nuestro territorio
i La necesidad de crear planes d- csmanejo donde 10s p~ebiosindigenas
  negros puedan poner en practica sils conocimientos rradicionales.
F Definir 10s mecanisxos de relacionanliento entre las corn-uiiicjlades y las OilgS
  ambientalistas.
P Es necesario que 10s pueblos indigenas y negros efectuernos una evalvbacih
  de! proyecto PAPIN para ver si si1 irlcli?.si6n e n la ~ u e fma x c u n p l i r i can 12s
  verdad-eras necesidades de 10s pueblos indigenas y negros, p asi evitar que ias
  buenas intenciones engrosen el m-anualde proyectos sin base real.
P Ya se han ejecutado diversos propectos y/o programas e n Honduras con !os
  pueblos indigenas y negros, muchos de 10s cuales sirven como ejemplo para
  visualizar 10s buenos y rnalos resultados, valdria la pena hacer un balance de

> 10s mismos antes de iniciar e l REPEFIN.
  Los delegados dr las 33 coinunidades Garifunzs prescntes e n el events,
  reafirmamos que la OFRAJiEH serA la ejecuiora del prograrna REPEPIN.
$' En el rcarco del proyecto REPEPINdebe ser efectivo el apoyo a1fortalecimiento
  institucional de las organizaciones indigenas y negras.

--
b~,resumeii ejecutivo del anjlisis arnbiental con i-espect~al Prograrna de
iidministracibii de Tierras eii Honduras se propone solventar el problerr?_ade la
demarcacjbn territorial con respecto de !os dereckos de 10s pueblos y se instaura
el1 el marco institucional de! Prbyecto - Facilitacibn de! comercio e incremento de
la cornpetitividad prornocionado por el Eanco Mundial- y sigm las directivas de
politica operacional definida por el Banco Mundial e n el arnbito de !a norxiativa
rnternzcional vigente sobre 10s derechos ambientales           5710s derechos de 10s
pueblos indigenas.

Esa sistematizaci6n de 10s tituIos de propiedad a iiivel nadfonal se ejecuta como
antecedente necesario para         ser1ta.r la base y asegurar el desarrollo de un
proyecio de arnplio radio que involucrarh todos los organos institucionales y la
fuerza ernpresarial del pais y extranjera en el nuevo contexto econjinico
internacioiial que se desplegara con la definitiva aprobaci6n de 10s TLC y la
globaIizaci6n de 10s mercados en Centroamerica.

Consecuentemente, antes dc analizar e! niicleo del resumen ejecutivo y del PD1
anexo hace falta aclarar el contexto en el que ese se desplega.

                                                   CIO E I                 DE
                                   ~                 ~                 ~               ~    ~
 E1 objetivo genera! de este proyecto del Banco Mundial es propiciar un
 csecirniento en la productividad del sector privado en Konduras, contribuyendo a
 ~ n aelevaci6ii eli el nive! de ccmpetitividad y de la economia del pais, "lo q ~ aela
      .
vez trae consigcJ un aurnento del empleo y um reducci6n de la pobreza". Plante2
 como objetivo mejorar el clirna de inversidn y capacitar a 10s exportadores para
 prepararlos ante 10s Tratados de Libre Cotlierciu que e s t b FCTvenir y perrnitir
 quc IIonduras desarrolle su potencial de turismo sostenible, expanda e! szctor
 agro-exportador, explote sus recursos forestales de rnanera sostenible, desarrslie
 la mineria, aurnente la ir:versi6r, extranjera, ailrnelzte la participacijn privada en
 la infraestriiciura y logre que el sector atlzaq,ui!a pase a cna producciin de un
 m q o r valor agregado, generando asi el creciiniento deseado. En ese inarco el
 Banco Mundial "se propone brindar una arencibn y salvaguarda particular a 10s
 pueblos indigenas y aegros de H.anduras        ii10s cuales se aplicaran estrategias
 diferenciadas de iritPrvenci6n para respetar sus diferencias y partictllaridades".

                                                                               ,,..
                                                                                       5
                                                                                       i"i3
Negros para cibrir r-ues'os espacios de comiimicacih y diabgo       C G el
                                                                        ~ propbsito
citl incluir una vercledera platafclrrna institucional de negociacih y concertaciijn,
(en est: mareG se iristama ia creacicr; de !a Mesa Iqacicnal de Convergencia
Gobierno - Etnia).

E] Banco 3% propone finalmente estabkcer con respecto a ics pueblos indigenas
L~IZ equilibria que permita, por un lado, riaIitener la cultilra y por ntro lado, crear
v desarmllar sus capacidades a fic de lcgrar SII          iiitegracibn a la economia
ilaciona!.

.4clarado el fin qEe se proponen 10s organisinos involucrados e n el megaproyecto
se puede entender la hqxxtancia, para el Gobiernu y para el Banco M?maial, de
definjr la tenencia de la tierra como una condicion imprescindible para promover
e; desarrollo de inversiones de 10s varios sectores productivos del pais. El arreglo
de la tecencia irnplica una revisi6n sustantiva de 10s cornpromism del gobierno
con las cornunidades etnicas e n respuesta        ;ilas demandas y reelarms de !a
titulacion de tierras que hacen, en este caso, 10s Garifunas.

Elmismo banco Mundial en s u analisis subraya que:
31Gobierno a traves del !NA hainxiado dcsde 10s aAos '30unproceso sistematico
de titulaci6n de tierra. Aumque el Gobierno cumpli6 uno de sus cornpromism en
tkrminos de reconocimiento a 10s derechos de tierra e n estas comunidades, la
respuesta compzrada con !a dernanda zs m-uy desproporcional tal coin0 lo
demuestra el reciente diagnostic0 sobre us0 y tenenciz de tierra e n comunidades
Garifunas y Misquita realizado por el Consejo de Investigacion para centro
America y el caribe (CACRC) recien producido como instrumento de prueba, eiitrc
10s demas, e n una petici6n Fresentada por OFRANEH ante la Comisi6n
lnterarnericana de Derechos Humanos de la OEA con respecto a las violaciories
curnplida por el Gobierno de honduras ei2 contra del derecho a la tenencia de
tierra de todas !as coniunidades Garifuna y registrada bajo el numero p - 906 -
03.

El Banco rernarca IC OFRANEH sostiene en la mencionada denuncia o sea
                        que
que en Honduras pese a que se reconoce la zxistencia juridica y social de fas
comunidades indigenas, no se han adoptado ordenarnientos que concreten y
hagar, posible este reconocimiento e n la practica. El ordenamiento juridico
 interno es donde hay rnzyor carencia de normzs constitucionales y !os convenios
 internxionales, que replan de manera general, las relaciones ccn 10s Pueblos
 Indigenas.

 Los preceptus legzles y aplicables PstBn dispersos e n varios ordenarnientos
 sectoriales, entre 10s que se pueden uestacar 10s instrumentos legales agricoias,
 forestales y ambientales. La toma de conciei-lcia de la mcncionada probLemBtica
 induce entorices a ins       expertos de!     Banco hacia -ma evalua.ciin de 10s
 instruixentos dispuestos por el PATH (Program2 de administracibn de Tierras e n
 Hondura-s) que reguiaran ias conflictos intersectoriales con respecto a la
 titulaci6n de 10s predios que tenga e:? cuenta pleitos que se remontan a siglos
 atrks y qxe hasta ia ieclia no han sido sducionados generando un clirra de
 hostigamientu haci2 10s pueblos indigenas y que deben d~ ser aharczdcs COLI
 medidas adecuadas a las exigencias de las etnias para evitar que lo antedicho sc
 tradtlzza en concreto problemas de gobernabilidad.

                 . _                                                                  ? 5
EZ esta direction ei Banco, junto con el gobierno, se cornpromete en la
adopci6a de medidas proporcion,adas seg:,in           las directivas operacionales a la
varigr:zrdia e n ei sector de la tutela de 10s derechos de ias etnias, entre !os cuaies
se encuentra el derechc a la evaluacih ambiental que ha generado el resumes
ejecutiro del PATH anahado e n este documento.

     CTWAS QPERP,CHOWALm DEE BAIL'COMFJNDaL
     recho a1 rnedio arnbiente ha adquirido un rol de primer pian en 10s proyectos
de desarrollo inpdsados ei1 12 ultima dicada. El punto central esta ahora
encaminado hacia el logro de un desarroilo ambientahente sano y sostenibk,
con infasis en el bienestar humano y la participacion, antes que e n indicadores
e ~ ~ l u ~ i ~econbmic3s. El~logro inas irnpartantc ha sido la traslaciijn de 10s
                         z ~ ~ c n t
asuntos del medio anibiente a! de 10s derechos humanos. El reccnocimiento de
que ambas estaa relacionados y son interdependientes cambia las regdaciones
sobre el medio arnbiente en el campo exclusive de las relaciones internacionales y
de las jurisdicciones locaies y pone knfasis e n el costo hurnano de la degradacibn
ambienta!. Teniendo e n cuenta que 10s pueblos indigenas, sus cultwas y sus
medios de subsistencia e s t h intimamente ligados a sus tierras y sus territcrios,
la degradacion del medio ambiente puede ser especialmente devastadores. En
cclnsecuencia 10s pueblos indigeiias requieren medidas y garantias especiales
para aliviar 10s impactcs ambientales negativos.

AdeniAs, e n cse contexto, se afirma que muchos derechos se han derivado u
originado e n ei derecho a1 rnedio ambiente o tienen cclzexi6n con otras n o r x a s
establecidas de derechos humanos. Estos derechos incluyen:

Evaluaciljn A~~~~~~~~ - este derecho forma parte del derecho internacional, e!
cual requiere que la evaluaci6r-i arnbiental se lleve    ;?,cabo, para evaluar el impacto
potencialmeiite adverso para !a s & h d y el bienestar publico, antes de
cornprometer o aprobar activictades que signifiquen una amenaza para estm. Ei
Banco Mundial                 ha reconocido 12 importancia de lievar a cabo estudics,
adoptando e n 1991 la Directiva Operacional 4.01 - Evaiuaci6n Ambientai. Esta
directiva estipula que la evaluacih arr,biental se debe conterrlplar e n todos 10s
proyectos del Banco que tengan UIT:impacto significativc sobre el rnedio arnbiente.
Eicha directiva reconoce tambien la necesidad de consultar co11Ias cornunidades
locales, incluyendo a 10s puebios indigerias cuando la e v a h a c i h arnbiental sea
realizada en proyectos qxe afecten o puedan afectar sus tierras y territoi-ias.

Dereclhs a la                          Este derecho reqEiere que toda ia informacibn
                   ~~~~~~~~~~~


importante sobre e! impacto potencial de ias medidas y decisioiies que afeecien el
rnedis arnbiente estkn a disposicion del pubiico o a1 menos de aspellas persmas
que puedali ser directa o iixiirectamente afectadas.

                                                                            . .
                                                                                  ! F ;
La DO 4.20 incorpora definiciones de a m p l i ~ criterio, asi corm un
reconocimient.o de 10s t=stiiildares internacionaies sabre derechos de pueblos
iridigenas  OO;I   kni'asis en las estrategias cuituraies y participativGs pzra un
desarroflo apropiado. Su objetivo es asegurarse que e1 proceso de desarro'llo
proniueva el respecto hacia su dignibad, derechos hum-anos y singularidad
cultural. Especificamente, el objetivo central de esta sdirectriz es asegxarse que
:as poblaciones indigenas no sufran efectos adversos durante e! proceso de
desarroilo.. .  y que reciban beneficios scciales y' econjmicos que             Sean
cxdturalmente compa.tibles jpkm-afo 6)

Tarnbiin la pofitica de! Banco es que la estrategia, para tratar 10s asuntos
referidos a poblaciunss iiicligenas, debe csmr basada en la participacion
inforrnada de !as propias poblaciones indigenas. De esta manera, la ideniificacion
de !as preferencias locales a traves de la consulta directa. asi como la
incorporaci6n del conocimiento indigena e n 10s eni'oques de 10s proyectos y la
utilizacihti de especialistas desde el inicio, son actividades centrales para
cualquier proyecto que involucre a las poblaciones indigenas y sus derechos
sobre recursos naturales y econhmicos (parrafo 8)

La Eo 4.20 tambih exige que 10s Esiados preparen Piaiies Detallados de
Desarrollo para !os pueblos indigenas, para cada umo de 10s proyectos
financiados     por    e l Bznco que     afecten  las tierras,  recursos,   culturas
implicitamente, 10s derechos humartos de estos pueblos. El Plan de Desarrollo
Indlgena PDI debe preparase corijuntamente con las propuestas de proyectos
basicos sometidas al Banco antes de la aprobaci6n de 10s fondos y debe basarse
en" la plena consicieracibn de las opciones preferidas por las poblacjones
 indigenas invoiucradas e n el proyecto-"(parrafo        14a), El Banco entonces
 deterininara si" 10s componentes especiaies a! proyecto que p o d r h estar a1
 inargen de 10s objetivos primarios del mismo "son requeridos para la proteecihn
 adecuada de    ',OSproyectos de !os pueblos indigenas (p6rrafo 15). Denlro de estcs
 "componentes especiales a1 proyecto" e s t h las medidas de asesoria y asistencia
 para asegurar el reconocirniento legal del sistcma de tenencia de tierra iradicionaii
 he las poblaciones indigenas"         (pArraf9 15c) y 10s rnecanismos para la.
 partilcipaci6n de Zlas poblaciones indigenas, incluyendo la colaboraci6r; de 10s
 !ideres tradicionales durante todo ei planteamiento y ejecucicjn del proyecto
 (parrafo 1513).

 Se presume entonces que err el Ambito de la fwmulacibn de! ?DI debe habea unz-
 psrticipacih?nactiva de ios pueblos interesados e n el rnismo PDI.

 El parrafo 12 de la 00 4.20 establece que el Banco p e d e proporcionar asistencia
 tecnica para fortalecer las instituclones gxbernamentales relacionadas con 19s
 pueblos indigenas o "apoyar izs iniciativss de desarrnllo de las propias
 poblaciones indigenas". LE asistencia tkcnica ciebe incluir ei asesmamiento legal,
 cientiGco e de ingenieria, como tzxbien la ayuda para ia obtenci6n de los
 recursos necesarios. Finalrneiite e l Banco idenEifica 8 travks del PDI IDS posibles
 probiemas y las necesidades de !os puebbs involucrados o afectados por el
 proyecto con knfasis scbro la dernarca.ci6n ji regularizaci6n de 13.s tierras. Qtras
 dos Directivas Operzcior;a!es ernitidas por el Banco ds-b~nser rr-eneionadas: la
 Do 4.01 - Evaluaci6,n Am-bienta! y 13DO 4.30 reacentamientc; Invduntario.

                                                                                   17
La DO 4.91 rnencionada anteriormente dispone que debe haber consultas con
10s pc~eblosindigenas sobre asuntos relacionados ce7n estudios sobre e! impact0
ambienta! hechos para proyectos que a.fec,tendirecia e indirectamente sus tierras
y territorios.
Presumibiemente cuandc se lee conjuntarnente con 10s requisitos de la DO 4.20
con relacion a que 10s pueblos indigenas participaran e n todas las fsses del
diseiio del proyecro, ia DO.4.01 dehe incorporar algo mas que una simple
consu.1ta.

ANALISIS BE LA EVAULACION Y DEL PBI

Ac!arsdos loa ar,teeedcntes iieccsarbs se g'xde pasar al tiiidisis del resuixcn.

El Programa de Administracibr, de Tierras en Honduras (PATH) se ha concebido
como un prograrna orientado a crear las condiciones. para dinamizar 10s
mercados de capital de Honduras a traves de la creacibn de un sisteina nacional
integrado y descentralizado de derechos de propiedad solventando el problema de
la extralegalidad en !a tenencia de la propiedad inmueble en Honduras enfocando
10s miiltiples problemas existentes incluyenclo el us0 social de la tierra, &reas
protegidas, tierras boscosas, zona agropecuaria, tierras indigenas y ixgras.

E! prograiTia se ejecutara segun la politica de Evaluaciori Ambiental OP 4.01 de!
Banco Mundial analizada anteriorrnente.
Entonces veamos el enfcque del resumen con respecto a las &reas que nos
interesan.

En el mencionadc rnarco de la OP 4.01 de! Banco el programa, con respecto a LAS
AREAS PROTEGIDA~ se ejecutara en la primzra fase en 12 Areas protegidas, las
cuales presentan una problematic2 social c ~ m p l equej ~ se refleja en altos niveles
de pobxza, analfaktismo e inadecuada infraestructura hhsica.

A1 respecto el resumen del PATH se evidencia que 10s procesos de planificacijn
relativos a las zonas protegidas se formulan sin consideracibn de !a realidad
social cultural y ambientai de las comunidades, esta situacibn, segiin 10s
expertos, hace imperativo que 10s gobiernos (nacional y local, formuIen sus
politicas e n forma integrada con ias comunidades no s o h en la gestibn de areas
protegidas sirio en la impleizentaci6n de scciones eisncrctas para la reducci6n de
la vulnerabilidad ssciai y amhiental del pais).

A d e m h se subraya que a pesar de existir un decreto de ley de crcacion de ias
Areas protegidas, estas ne est5n claramente dcfinldas e n el campo y si lo estkn,
 sus lirnites zo hard sido conciliados con 10s pobiadores, por lo que existe uiza.
creciente inva-sibn de sus ireas de amortigamien'io. E: proyecto asegurara !a
 formulacion y actuaiizaci6ri de !os p h e s de Eian;3?oen sus Qreas de intervencibn.

                                                                                     `I O
                                                                                        P
Esta sitr-Iacicin lia generado !a ncupaci6n par parte de ladinos de espacios .=jue
tradicioiiaimenw habian sido psseidos por grupas Ctnicos y la sohre posici6n dz
areas protegidas, bosques        >7  tierras coinunaies, !o cual ha resultado e n
(iretrimento de ias cultirras de ios grupos itnicos p de la conservaci6n arnbienral.

r-.
bl es:udio   en a d i s i s subraya que el Estzdo de Mondxas debe regularizhr 10s
derechcis de propiedad de 10s distintos grzpos 5tnicos de! pais, principaimente
mediante e l reconocimiento de la propiedad cornuna! de conformidad con el
Gonvenio 169 de la OK. Asi el Estado no debe seguir con la designacidn de mas
Breas protegidas e n zonas donde haya ccmunidabes autdctonas, mientras              110
estkn claramente definidos ios derechos de             propiedad de ;as       rnism-as,
salvagaardando de esta marield, 10s iritereses de estas cornunidades. En este
sentido, debe existir una cocrdinaci6n intei-institutional e intersectorial para
asegurar una resolution satisfactoria de 10s conflictos que resultan de la
controversia que puedan existir entre 10s limites de las -areas protegidas y las
areas que son y deben reconocerse como propiedad de las cornunidades
Garifunas.

En este inarco se involucra la optima propuesta del congelarniento de
transaeciones registrales e n las &reas reciamadas con derechos ancestrales.

Entre !os irnpactos negativos potencial se ha sefialado: la posibilidad que hayan
dernandas sobre 10s rnisnios territorios por otros reclamantes (superposlcibn,
traslapes entre distintos pueblos o con e! Estaclo etc.j; la posibilidad que
ocupantes de `iiqrras no pertenecientes a comunidades indigenas trateii de
legalizar s u posesion de las mismas por medio de manipulacibn leg21 de registros
de propiedad, el posible conflicto e n el mznejo corntm. del territorio e n !os pueblos
indigenas, Garifma y ladinos.
El excelente analisis de la problem6tica que afectan las comunidades ttnicas de
Honduras con respecto a la tenencia de la tierra y a la regularizacibn de 10s
predios ancestraies y las optimas directivas operacionales que rigen la redaccion
del estudic de svaluacibn ambiental y del PATH ei1 general ah-ient2i-i                 !a
esperanza e n las cornunidades indigenas y GzriPmas de Honduras que eso se
traduzca e n una aplicaci6n cmcreta del disefio del Gcbieriio y del Banco
Mundial, con respecto a1 problema del ordenarniento territorial que representa
unrequisitn esencial parala sobrevivencia de ios pueblos ittnicos.

 Sin em-bargo dicha esperanza se ve fiusirada por un ariiiiiiisis oetaliado del pian
 e n el que se ciestaca lo siguiente:

 11Los m~deloslegales de cornpetencia e n 10s cjue se mueve el PAT% abai-canleyes
 y disposiciGnes normarivas (Ley de Municipalidad etc.) que sriginaron, mas que
 una vez, perjuicios a !os pxeblor ktnicos. La Ley de Ordenarniento Territorial que
 represefitara la normativa base para solventar 10s confiictos soLre la tenencia de
 la tierra ha sido Bsperarnente criticada por las ccnirrnidades initeresadas en ia
 h e de consultz anterior a1es'i~zdio.

 2) Er: ningtm Iugar del Plan se hace referencia ai dcber del Estado de Honduras
 de reconccer a nivel norillativo lrjs derxhus cniectlvos de !os puehics ktnicos, en
 falta del cua! nunca se pA-8obtener una.tutela decente de !os pueblos indigenas
 v gariftinas de hondluras,

                               ~       ~   ~de lat Keunih entre ~
                                                    ~   ~   t       s
          Rcpresentnntes de OFRANEN y Funcionarios dcl Banca Rlundia:
                           Tegucigalpa, 21 de septiembr-e,2005


@bjeti\,ode reuni6n. En respuesta a una invitacih del Banco Mundial ,representantes
de la OFUNEH se reuiiieron coil funcionarios del Banco Mundial para clarificar e:
alcance del conknido de su cari'd a1 Banco Mundial rzcibida el 26 de agosto, 2005
sobre las po!iticas de selvaguarda en el contexto del Proyeclo de Adininistracih de
Tierras de Iioiiduras (PATH)

A la rerinii5n asistieron:

Por parte de OFIIANEH: Miriam Miraiida (Coordinadora               de proyectos, Santa fe),
Santos Reiiito Beriiardez (Coordinadnr de Turisino, Punta Piedra), Liiian Carol Rivas
(Coordinador de Comuiiicaci6ii, Liiii6n)y Luis Ferixilidez (Coordinador de Tierra
Territorio y Medio Ambiente, Sambo Creek).


Por parte      del   Banco    Mundiai: Adridn        Fozzard   (Representante Residente en
Honduras), Jorge      Muiioz (Gerente       del Proyecto P A T H por e! Banco Mundial),
Fernando Galeatia (Asistente de Operaciones) y Josefina Stubbs (Especialista Asuntos
Indigenas, por audio desde Washington),

Los representantes de OFRANEHen la reuni6n clarificaron que sus denuncias se
refiereii a la 00 4.20 solamente.

Los representantes de OFRANEH confirmaron qut: s u principal preocupacidnes la
impleiiieiitaci6n de la Ley de Propiedad en las conwnidades Garifiinis. Esthnen
desacuerdo coil ydrias provisioiies de la Ley de Propiedad, en particular, la !ega!izacibn
de tierras de terceros a1 interior de 13s cornunidadzs (Art. 97) y otras piovisioiies que las
consideran contradictorias, taies como la no separacidn entre el drnbito urbano y rural.
Eneste sentido, el i1dejulio del 2005 entregaron propuestas de niodificaci6n a la ley
(Capitulo IiIde la Regularizacibn de Tierras? a1 Congreso de la                Republica. Sin
embargo, el iiiisiiio est6 fuera de sesi6ii.

Los representantes de OFRANEH tarnbiin expiicarcn su pariicipacio:: en e! pxceso
de socializacion de la Propuesta de la Ley de propiedad orgaizado poi. PAAR,
incluqrendo un taller que se lievo a cab0 en San Juan Tela en Octubre dei 2003. Los
rew!tados de la consu!ta de San Juan Tela heron entregahs ai Congreso. Ademas,
OFR4NEI-1organizo a traves de la secretaria de Goberiiaci6n y Jusricia y el progrmia
PAPIN iina consulta para el Plan de desarrollo Indigenaen diciembre del 2003.

Asimisnio, 10s representantes de OFMNEH expiicaron qile desconocez si
el docu1:ieilto itietodoiogia para Deierniinar y hledir las Tienas a ser Tituladas a las
coimnidades ctnicas elaborado por la UCP es el reglamenlo oficial del Proq-ectoo no
(el c m l se meixiona en la  C X - : ~ a1 Banco del 25 de agosto,2005j. 1.0s representantes
de OFIL4NEH manifeslaronque esran en desacuerdo con el metodo de resolucibn
de conflicios expresados en dicho docmento. Los funcinnarios del B,aiico aclararrjn

qire e l rcferido       docuiiiento es un bomdor de trzbajo qc,e iio ha sido aprl;bado
oficialixente ci por e l Gobierno ni por el Banco.

10s represeiitantes de OFR4NEH expresaron quee estaii en desacuerdo con !a forma de
iniplenieritaci6n del PATH, tales coni0 e! proceso de conforniaci6n de las nieszs de
regularizacicin, !a coniposicitin de estas iiiesas de regularizacidn y !a seleccibn de fas
coniunidades ha ser regularizadas.

Los representanks del Banco Mundial aclararoii que el Prograiiiade Adiiiinistracibn
de Tierras es un proyecto del Gobierrto de liocduras, ejeciltado a traves de la Secretaria
de Gobernacion y Justicia, descrito en el Convenio de Credito entre el Gobierno de
Hondaras y el Banco Mundial, el documento de evaluacion y e! Manual Operativo
del Proyecto. Asiniisrno, se aclaro que cxisten provisiones especificas para ei
c u m p h i e n t o de las politicas de salvaguardas sobre pueblos Indigenas, tales corno
la cl6usula 3.11 a! Convenio de CrCdito que especifica que en las areas de influencia
del proyecto no se deiiiarcaran fisicaiiiente o tituiaran tierras Ctnicas a no ser que se
sigan procedimieiitos que veleii por 10s derechos de 10s pueblos indigenas, debidarnente
consultados con !as partes afectadas de nianera satisfacioria para el Banco Mundial, e
incorporados en el Manual Operativo del Proyecto.


Los funcionarios del Banco Muiidial solicitaron a 10s representantes de la 0FRANEf-I
sugereiicias especificas de c6im niejorar la iniplementaci6n del proyecto en las
coinunidades Garifuna.


0FRANEI-I sugirid que para niejorar la iniplementacion del Proyects se p r o h d i c e c1
 respeto y transparencia del proceso de socializacijri del mismo, asi rnismo que Ias
 coniunidades deben decidir si participan o no, a traves de su procedimiento de toma de
 decision interm.

 Para dar seguiiniento a lo. reunion, 10s representantes de OFMNEH solicitaron
 que el banco Mundia! solicire a1gobierno de Honduras una r e u i i i h tripartha
 (Gobierno,       representantes de OFRANEH y otras entidades represeniativas de
 canunidades Garifunas, y hncionarios del Banco Mundial) para rzvisar !as
 inodalidades de eJecuchdei proyecto, por, los inecankmos be participacioii
 en la mesa regional o ia seleccibn de comuliidades

Por OFRANEH                        Por el Banco Mundiz!




h4iriam Miranda                       Jorge A. hluiioz




Saiitos Benito Rernardez              kiritin Fozzard




Lilian Carol   Rivas                  Femaiido Galeaiia




Luis FeriiBndez




`Feguciga!pa. 2iseptiembre 2005


                      Barrio El Centro, Avanida La Repdblica, 2" Planta de Libxeria El TrCbo?,
                Contfguo a CELTEL, La C e h , AtlPntida, Honduras, C. A. Apartado Postal 341.
                             Telefax: OO(S0.l) 443-24-92, e-mail: cifranehi@Saceiba.corn




     '25 de Octubre del 2005.

      Estirnado SP. McDonald Benjamin
      Gerente Desarrollo Social
      America Latina y e l Caribe
      Washingtoil, D.C
      USA.
I

      Estimado sei5or:

      En respuesta a      SL? carta del 20 de octubre relacionada con la denuncia que presentamos en
      s u despacho del Banco Mundial e n el mes de Agosto, relacionada con la 'v'iolaci6n de
      Nuestros Derechos Colectivos y la D.O. 4.20 del Banco Mundial, para 10s Pueblos Indigenas,
      y la reuni6n reahzada corn0 respuesta a la inisma con fecha del 21de septiembre.

      Corn0 dehe ser de su conocimiento el desarrollo social de 10s pueblos indigenas debe est=
      comprornetido c o n el respeto a las formas ancestrales de tenencia de la tierra, y no a 10s
      compromisos adquiridos con 10s estados naci6n y sii peculiar 16gica de disoluci0ii de la
      propiedad cornunitaria. El proyecto PATH ha venido causando resquemores y financiando el
      divkionismo entre nuestro pueblo, lo c u d n o es garantia de mantener e! equilibrio neceFpi-io
      para la preservacion de la cosrnovision Garifuna.

      Ante esta situacion 20s rrianifestamos e n contra del tono de s u correspondenc;a ya que la
      misma insinua que nuestra inconformidad, es Gnicamente con el articulo 97 de la ley de
      propiedad situaci6n que n o es real, p o r q ~ e si bien es cierto qae n o estznos de acuerdo con
      varios a-ticulos del capitulo III de la rnencionada ley, tanbiln es                  cierto q12e el
      proyecto PATH si violenta la Directriz Operativa 4.2C, per l o que ante esta situaci6n h e n o s
      Eomado la d e t e r m i n a c i h de elevzr nuestra inconformidad ante el panel 5el Eanco
      Mundiai.                                                                                R
                                          ?OR EL COMITE EdECiiTIVS
                                                                                                         c




      cc. Arq. Henry Merriaii, Coordinador National, Proyectc PATH, Unidad Coorditiadora de Proyecto
      cc. Sr. -?dri;irn Fozzad, Representante dei Bai>coMundial,Fioix6uras


           Barrio El Centro, Avenida La Repbblica, 2" Planta de Libreria El TrCbol,
        Cantiguo a CELTEL, La Ceiba, Atlgntida, Honduras, C. A. Apartado Postal 341.
                  Telefas: OO(S04) 443-2492, e-mail: afraneh@laeeiba.com

                                           > A



                                         $W




La Ceiba, 31 de octubre del 2005

Sr. McDonald Benjamin
Gerente Desarroilo Social
Anikrica Latina y el Caribe
Washington D.C.
USA


-
OB3ETO: Proyecto de Adinlnistracijn de Tierra en Honduras



Estimado Sr. McDonald

       En respuesta a !a nota del 27 de octubre del 2005, enviada por el Sr. Jorge A,
Muhoz en su nombre, le cornunicarnos que aceptarnos reunirnos con gstedes, en
calidad de representantes de la Administracih del Banco Mundial, y con la deiegacidn
dei Gobierno de Honduras, para presentar nuestra posici6n sobre e! proyecto en
objeto.

Esperarnos noticias relativas a la sede dei encuentro cjuedmdo firme la hora, la fecha
y el lugar establecida por ustedes.

Atentamente.



                 _ -




                                              I


                Barrio El Centro, Avenicla La IPepirLEca, Za Planta de Libreria El Tr6bo1,
          thntiguo a CELTEL, La Ceiba, AtlLntida, Ronduras, C. A. Apartado Postal 341.
                       Telefax: OO(504)443-24-92, e-mail: ofranehL&lacei&t.com




La Ceiba, 3 de novienbre del 2005

Sr. MCDonald Benjamin
Gerente Desarrollo Social
Amkrica Latina y el Caribe
Washington D.C.
USA



OBJETO: Reunih? del 4 de noviembre sobre Proyecto de Administraci6n de Tierra en
Honduras


Estimado Sr. Mc Donald




Eii el cas0 en que Listed no l-ecibih el ineiicionacio dccl!!lJento la invitanos a sefialamos11113
                                                                                                 feciia i m a
otra reuiiibn. stipuestamente a breve tPimino, siempl-e y cuar~doListed siga iiitei-esado en e! decai-rollo
dei ixocedi 1-11 iento.




                          .I


                 Barrio E1Ceittro, Avenida La Repiiblica, 2" Planta de Libreria. El TrGbol,
           Contiguu a CELTEL, La Ceiba, AtlBntida, Hcnduras, C. A. Apartado Postal 341.
                           Telefax: OO(504) 443-24-92, e-mail: ofraneh6ilaceiba.com




4 de Wovieiiibre del 2005.




Waslii ngtoii, D.C.
LrSA                                                                                   ...
                                                                                          I




OBJETO: Keiini6n del 4 dc iiovieiiibre Proyecto de Adininistraci6ii de Tierra en 14oi:dtiras



rieciba de nuesti'a organizaci6ii tin cordial y respetuoso saludo, c?liiiisiiio tiempc que 1cs deseanios lo mejor en el
desarrollo de siis actividades.

Con la presente nota ilLiereiiios remarcar qiie la reiini6n fijada para Iioy. debia ilevarse a calm en el Bmbi1.o cie  iir
dialogo ConstrLiclivo entre las paites invoiiicradas con el      lli; de darle respuesta a la deiii!ncia pi-eseiitada por
OFKANEH, ante el B.M. Por lo tanto no entendeiiios la pi.esciicia de personas o instilticiories ajenas a cstas OS
iiistancias.

Coiino Iiabiamos acoidado la reiini6n iiivo!uiral?a a persoiieros del gcbierim, el B.M y iqxeseiitaiites de la
OFKANEI-I.

Por io ctial f:ie iiilil graii sorpresa encontrarnos en presexia de iiei'soiias rnie!iibros de la Mesa Rcgioilal (qiic` iio
se pueden eiiteiidei-conic delcgadcs del gobieriio ni del B.M.).desgraciadaiiieiite roiiipieiido con i o s acLiri.illis a
que habizinos liegado ai la reiinibn sostenida por nuesira orgaiiizaci6n con iqmseiitantes del B.l\n. en la ciiidad
de Teguciga!pa, el dia 21 de septieinbre.

A pesar de io acontecido estanios interesados en sos:ener wia i:e;iiiih con /os representaiites del Banco Muiiiiial.
Gobierno y OFRANEli, stibraya!idc que a1 reiterarse la preseiicia de personas a-ieiias seria ei?tei?dida coiiio
intento de alteracicin de! procedimiento de soluci6ii pcr parte de 10s agentes iilv(!!iicradi:s y coiiseciieliteiiieilte
estariainos en la situzcii5ii de alertar ei iiiecaiiisnio de control del 3. M.. eiiviaixio nix sclicitud de iiispccci6n ai
? a d




                                                                                                                          i

..'

L a OFRAIVE'hIcon sede e; L a Ceiba Departainento de A t h t i d a Apartado Posta!
341 Honduras coi~eoelectrbnico ofrar.eh@laceiba.com telCfono (504)443-2492,
en persona de la sefiora Grego!ia     Flores en la calidad de reprewitante legal con
domicilio en la sede de la Orgmizacibn, con !os sellores abogados Gianliica Gaia
y Maurizio De Martino del colegio de 10s abogados de Nipoles en calidad de
asesores legales con carta poder anexa
                                                                                         I

En representacickz de las coiiiunidades Gariftinas de TRIUNFO DE LA @UZ,        r-i


SAN JUAN DETELA.TBRI\SABEY MIAW/II.                                      L, i c'3,
                                                                         -.
                                                                          -      5

                              CONSIDERANDO




A) L a faka de intervenci6n pos parte del Estado.
A pesar de las iriumerables denuncias, quejas, dennncias inteinac:loiia!es           y
planleamier?tosprornovidos por la comunidad, cl Estado y sus 3rganos destacados
nunia han atendido !as exigencias de la comunidaci relacionadas cen el
rcconocimiento de sus derechos teritoriales


8)La entrada en vigor dc la Ley de Propiedad-Derreto 84 -2004 que regula
el regimen de propiedad colectiva aneestrz5 en detrimmto de 10s derechor
territoriales de la com;~nidad del pueblo Garifarea-
                                   y
El Estado de Hoaid~r~is, como Io de,mispaises del istrno centroaniericano, esta
                           asi
ejecutando, en el marco de la prosima entrada en vigor del CAFTP,, de 10s
tratados de libre coxercio y de i a ejecucicin del Plan Puebla Zsanamii,  LIT? proyects
(PATH) encaminado a garantizar          12 estabiiidad y seguridad juridica necesariz
s d x e ei bien tierra para resolver el proh!eina ligado a1 misrnc (solamente un 30%
de la tiera del pais e s t h registradas y de estas apenas us tercio posee refmmcia
cetastral).
El propbsito esta relacionado ccn el potenckmiento de !a economia de mmado,
no solamente en la 6ptica dc la dinamizacibn del mercad~de tierras, crtdi'io c
hipolecas,
--
prfeccioiiamiento del mercadoapunta1amien:o [dea!qrresistcrna
              el   consecuente                                      financiero    y i.1
                                    de bieries sirio       la scguridadjuridic~sobrc




                                        I

ia propiedad de la iierra es condicicini imprcszindible parz que 10s invcrsionis:as
nasionaies y extrarijeeros corifieii en LEI pais.
Remarcarnos que el PATH es ED Proyecto previo ai Proyecto Facilitac,ibn dei
&lomc.rcio e !ncrei?aento de la Competitividad, financiado por ei Eanro Mundiai,
dirigido a propiciar un creciniiei:to de la productividad del sec.tor privado en
Honduras en aciierdo coil !a visicn econhmica neoiiberai de las elites dcrninantes,
er, la vispera de la aprobacih de 10s TLC.
El insir-dmetl~odispuesto por e: poder legislatiso para concrstar esa visih ha sido
el Decreto 84 -2004 conteniente la Ley de Propiedad.
Esa Ley ha si00 duramente criticada ya en sii f a x ernbrionai por el pueblo
Gadfuilna que entre\&      10s peligros de! c,wrjm norniativo qiie se l e prooporcionaba
cm;o panegirico a 10s problenizs de teneiicia de tierra que ag&ian el pais. En
reuniones de consuita sobre la nueva ley, llevadas a cab0 en las comunidades
Garifunas y cuyas memorias se anexan al presente acto (anexo I),             Ias fuerzzs
vivas se opusieron fi.memente a las imovaciones en e! s&tema de ternencia de
tierra postu!adas por la nieiicionada ley. Ellos consideraron de que dicha ley por
tin lado cristalizaria las situaciones de violaciones de derechos terntoriaks y5
existentes jlegitimando de tal manera Ias invasiones de forineos en las iierras
titulada cn dominio pleno a favor de las cornuiiidades Garifunzs) y por otro lado
enipujaria hacia una dinainizacicri del mercado de l a tierra a favor exclusivo dc
!as eiites dorninantes asociadas con el capital inversionista extranjero en desprecio
del derecho coiisuetudinario indigena, reconocido a nivel intemacional y
domestico, violentando la5 noimas pktricas que tutelan !a posesihii de !a tierra del
pueblo hondurciio como se ha dado ejemplo clarnorosn en el cas0 del desarrob
del Proyecto Bahia de Tela, llevado a cab0 en abierto desprecio del articulo 197
de la Constitixion de la Republica. E! copeticionzio sefior Jose Castro invitado
coino representante del Triunfo de la Cruz en fecha 16 de marzo del 2005 ( a q
- aunareunionsobreellPATHylaaplicacihdelaLeydePropiedadserehusb
2)
a firrnar uii documento, 1leY:ado       a cab0 en aquel imbito, con el que 10s
funcionarios gubemamentaies buscan ~ ~ i i s e l i ssobre la aplicaci6n de 10s
                                                        o
rnencionados planes dentro de las comunidades Garifunas. E! president del
Patronato de Triunfo de l a Cruz remarcando la amenaza que dickos ii;strumentos
Iegislativos codlevan para la sobrevivencia de su pueblo, se alejo de la reunion y
no quiso mas acudir a u'fteriores encuentros sobre el inisrno tenia, apoyado en su
decki6n por la totalidad de 10s mismbros de la cornmidad que representa
En el cam que nos atafia el Gobierno de Honduras adopta u.na amalgama de
criterios para apli'licar una iegislaci6n que, si por un lado ofrece una apriencia
lexical ronfornie a 10s estandares intemacionales dei derechc indigeilii en io
concreto se transmuta en un instrunento di: precisih para desbaraiar cualesquiera
reclamaci6n territorial de 10s pueblos indigenas, favorecier?_dn solo las z!ites de
poder interesadas a'i prsceso de movilizacih de capitalss introducido pur la
globalizacicn de la ecor,omia. El articulo 97, el cual dispone que el tot'cero que
texga titulo dc propiedad eiz t i m m de ostm pzieebh y que hrr terzirto y poscido lu
tierrx timpsrda pcr ese [itiib, rime dcrccko de contimar- poseyhiidoin                13
explofhndda Iegitirnz !ss invasiones de forhem en territorio Indigma y por lo
tanto violentn di~ec!amer;:e 10s derechos coiisueiitdina;-ics a 10s t e ~ : t ~an-iba~
                                                                          . .       ~ o

mmcion~dosy asonibra qce pixda ser una de ias regidas juridica que constitiiye
et marco normative Sc im ;myec~,oapoyado por ef Banco Mui~dia'!el cuai en sii
PO 4.20 ha deiinido ZCS                c:ei:cionados de:ec!ics   CCIIIO    IOSpniroires dc tiso
t:oi;;iu;~rcar.io   proiongodo de io: terrilcjrics      ~1de hc?si`eciii'sos de nciiet-de cc;i iiis
leys cotisu~1t~dii2arius,           10s valorcs, las cosiu.rnbrcs y Ias trndicioiies de /os
p c " ( ' , ~ sf:id!genc*"s,i?lC!l!ddo cl :(so eslacioiid, iiias que d rilu/o js!!-idtcofoi'Fi?al
s0bi.e la tierm31 10s recursos apedidopor el Esiado.
E! articulo 100 de la Ley i:ic!uso legitinia la atomizaciCii del titulo coniuiiitario de
las comunidades boxando'de un solo golpe todos 10s avances airededor de 10s
derechos cotectivos, ultimo baluarte para la salvaguardia y sobrevlvencia de una
ininoria ktnica, rematando de tal manera las aspiraches y esperanza de un
pueblo a una vida diLgaeilliiarcado en el respeto de la prclpia c)ulturay valores. En
efixto dicho articulo ha alentado de manera desmesurada los,intentos de compra
ilegitima de tierra en el area del titulo de Triunfo de la Cruz, como se averiguara
en la aitdiencia a traves de las prxebas testificales.                    .-'
ladernis !a aplicacih del Reglamento disl PATH, llamado nietodologia para
determinar y rnedir las tierras a ser tituladas a las coniunidades Ctnicas, rendiri
muciio mas complejo el procedimiento para que las coniunidades `,ogre11 la
ampliacih del titulo y por lo tanto el reconocimiento de sus reclamos territoriales
y eliiiiina la participacih efectiva de miembros de :as comunidades en la
deterniinacih de 10s limites dd tenitorio.
L a Ley. en objeto, basada en i a teoria e c o n h i c a del perrrano Aivaro Soto,
presenta siniestra analogia con la Ley No. 26845, aprobada el 9 de julio de 1997
por el Congreso Peruano. L a Confederaribn General de 10s Trabajadores del Perh
preseiito a l a Organizaci6n Lnternacionai del                     Trabajo una reclamaci6n
denunciando que ia k y violaba las disposicioues del Convenio 169 de la OIT y
par lo tanto la institucidn intzinacional recornend6 que el Gobieim de Pen?
enmendara U ~ O Sarticulos de l a ley. (viase Informe del Cornit6 conformado para examinar
la reclamaci6n que alegaba e! inculiiplimiento del ?em del Comenio 169 reaiizada a! amparo del
articulo 24 de l a constituci6n de la @IT,por !a Confede:aciCn General de ios Trabajadores de!
Pem Doc.GB 270/16!4, GB 233/14/4, 1998)
Los pueblos indigenas de Hoiiduras, reunidos en ocasi6n de un taller de discusijn
sobre la Ley de Propiedad financiado por la OIT en !a ciudad de Tegucigalpa en
10s dias 7 y 8 dejulio emitieion una declaraci6n en contra de la Ley. (anexo 3)


C) L,s        ~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~        del mega pr-;iyect~Qoristicn B&ia de Tela y la
ameaaza que dicho proy-ecio eutrafia por ilas comianidades de ha z n m
Eii fecha 5 de enero de 2004 el diario La Tribuna infomi6 que el Congeso
National habbiaaprobado un Decre!o               COEel cual entrega`ira a LK: g i q o empresarial
afin ai Gobierno, a iravks de un supesto estratligernajuridic0 que prevC la ven`i:l
de 3 I 2 magzaiias de iierra ~bicadaentre 12 aldea Garifuna de Tcmabe ;v` la L.aguna
Quemada en la Bahia de Teia, supuestamenie de propiedad del Institutn
Mnndurefio de! Turisnio, m a sociedad izixta (i-iguraintroducida For el Conseso
                                  i i
Naciond de !a Repilbiica con el Decrso nilrnercl 369 del 2602) dennrnimd.
Desarrollo Turistic,o Bahia de Tela S.A. de C.V.(DTGT)                   C U ~ O~ c i o
                                                                                     ma;;
sea el misnio Institute Hnndurefio del Turisnic quc se abrir.6 a1 capital primdo en

*
!a lase de ejecuci6n del Proyecio Turistico ya presupuestado (se planea cousrruir,
   -

so5re 2I 7 iiec,tireas de ia nxmcluilada, siete lo& de conipkjo hotelero de cuatro y
ciiico estrellas ademis seis conjuntos residencia!es con capacidad para 168 villas
y 1920 liabitaciones p r a una ini~si6nglobal de 130 nliilones de d6iares) a
trav6s de !a creaci6n de sociedades slibsidiarias o veridiendo parte de las parcetas
del predio a sociedades conpadoras. L a eiiorme extensi6n de tierra en objeto se
apodera en su totalidad del hibitat funcional reivindiczdo par Ias cornunidades
garifma de la z m a de Tc!a. Ai respecto reTi?arcamosque !a Ofraneh, en el mes de
abril del 2003, przsenicr m a pcticidn por medida cautelar (anexo 4) en defensa del
territorio de las cornunidades garifimas de Miami, Tomabe y Sal1 ruan de Tela y,
sucesivamente, pidiii a la Hor,orab!e         Comisih htemaciorial be Derechos
Htlmanos que oiorgara e1 congelamiento de la decisi6n sobre !a medida cautelar
en cuanto la Coi?e Suprema de Justicia de Honduras admiti6 un recurso de
inconstitucionalidad, presentado por el Ministeno Public?, contra el decreio
legislativo 90 -90 que contie:ie la ley para la adquisicibn de bienes urbanos en las
areas limitadas por el articulo 107 de la Constituci6ti). L a a c c i h fue presentada
por el ex fiscal general Roy Edinundo Medina, argumentando que se violeiita l a
Car-ta Magna y la soberanla sociai. L a Corte Suprema de Justicia, sucesivamente,
declaro sin lugar el recurso de inconstitucionalidad presentado. D e tal manera
fnstro definitivamenle !as aspiraciones de las cornunidades garifunas de ver
reconocidos sus derechos tex-ritoriales y de obtener amparo For l a legislaclbn
domestica. Las preocupacioaies de 10s niembros de las cornunidades se-
transformado eii phnico cuando ha sido editado d CD Rom (aiaexo 5) que
describe rninuciosarnente la marnikrad del pi-oyeet~v sus efectos daiiims para
el n-medioanbiente, comG remarcado por la ofraneh en su coniunicado publico
del 07 de octubre del 2005 (anexo 6). Cabe agegar que en el abril del 2005 el
Poder Ejeecuiivo de Honduras ha decretado la creaci6n del Area Bajo Kkgimen
Especial Bahia de Tela, la cual completa el rrlarco nomativo del proyecto Bahia
de Tela y prevk hipdtesis de desahjo y reubicac,ibn de 10s pueblos asentados en la
zona (anexo 7).
L a actitud de1Esiado, 10s efectos negativus del proyrcto y todas las arnmazas a la
sobrevivencia     culturai y fi'sica de 10s pueblos garifcnas de la zona quedan
documentadss a travCs del docuinel1to
CONSULTORIA LEGAL A F M DE DETERMMAR                   LOS EFECTOS 0 IMPACTOS
JUNICICOS QLJE CAUSA LA EMISION Y VIGENCIA DEL DEECRETO 90-90 EMITIDO
FOR EL SOBE-UNO CONGRESO X4CIONAL DE LA REPUBLICA DE IiONDURAS EN
FXLACION A LOS DERECEI3S G,47ZG<TIZAT;OS POR EL C#?<\'ENIO 169 SOBKE
PUEBLOS IXDiCENkS Y TF.IBP.LES SUSCRITO POX EL GORIEmTODE HONDUPL4S
(anexo 8)

C l L a actitud hosfiidel poderjudicial aacianal en contra de la      ~~~~~~~~
El Juzgado de Letra Sectional de Tela c m sentemia defhitiva dictada er, fecka
29 de m x z o de 2005, (an'sxo 9) violando todas las nomias de la !egislaci6n
domestica relacionadas con ios derechos colectivos indigenas, declaraba la
rididad relativa del titulo de propicdad de la comunidadde Tomabe. Dichil M l o
Z!a sido objeto de ap.clIaci:'?:i fieste de la Corte de P,pc!ac;oii
                                                                .,   competmte de y
yueda pendietlie de dscisihn.

5

E) L a Persistencia de !as afnenazas y de tcs raterxtadoscontra fa ireeolunidrlac!
fisica de 10s lideres connatnitarios y de 10s defe'ensores de la tierra
Sclo e1-1 el ultimo aiio se han incrementado y encnidecidos !3s axeixiz2c y las
persccuc.iones ei? contra de !os reconocidos lideres coinui~itariosentre 10s cuaic-s
se destacan: 10s probiemas jiidicia!es e n !as cuaies se ha encontrado la sefiorti
Teresa Reyes, (esposa del M e r comunitario Aifredo Lopez cuyo cas0 esta
tramitado en la Corte li:teramericana)    condeilada a1 deliio de usurpaci6ii para
defender fin predio perteneciente a la comunidad; las anienazas de muei-te en
contra del sefior Secundino Torres, presidents del CODETI'; la bala que ha
mi!agrosaniente solo herido la presideiita de OFliANEH Gregoria Flores (anexos
23, 14, 15 y 16)

2) El dano irreparable
El daiio debe ser considerado irreparable en cuarito e! concepto de ticrra y
territotio debe de ligarse a la cosmovisi6ii de ios pueblos Garii`unas y no a l a
concepcihn occidentail de propiedad privada segiin !a cual el da5o seria reparab!e
con una indemnizaci6ii econhmica. Para 10s pueb!os indigenas cualquier pkrdida
de su tierra no podria ser reparada econbmicarriente y representaria el fin de si:
estilo de vida, de su cultura y de su misma vida. Diclia circunstancia se acredita
cor?10s docurneutos atiexados a 12preseiite petidn.
Adeniis, como ya relidado, hub0 serias aine::azas a ia vida de 10s defensores de 12
iiena de las varias comimidades.

Por lo taiito; vista las obsenxlones presentadas, la Ofranch con 13s abogados
Giailluca Gaia y Mzurizio D e Martiiio




que la Honorable Comisiclii Intemacioital de Dereciios HLI~XWOS       otciirgue inedida
lcawiclar !a c u d se concrete el? la prohibicih de celebrar ac-tos y contratos
(niedida imitad. por el derecho interno !iondwefio vPase C6c!igo Prrocesal Civil de
Hoiidtiras articuios 277 y siguiei;:csj scbre 10s bienes iiimuebles       examen o sea
de las tierras comuiiales aricestrales de la comiinidad Garifima de Trim63 de la
Crw de!i!i:iiada pcr ios siguientes limires ancestraies: a1 Esie con Punta Izopo,      21
Ges!e cos el ccrro Triunfo de la C~LZ,21 Srir con el cerrc El Tigr-e, ai 5'4;niieCGII el
hlar Caribe y de las tieiras coliTiu?alcs aiicestra!es de !as comilnidiidzs Ga.rii;L;nas
de Tomabe y. San Juan dL:Te!. asi como descri?aen los mapas q ? ise anexan a la
                ..                                                       ~
pre,sej;te p.-+F-
            vt*L.lc:?.
                 '

   I
ia Cruz




           Apaderad$egal Triunfo de la Cruz
                 -3



                                             ***



INDICEANEXOS
1) Dcnuncia Banco Mundiialy anexos d d agosto del 2005.
2) I n v i t a c i h sefior &gel Castro de Triunfo de !a Cruz del 16 de rnaizo del
    2005.
3) Declaraci6n de midad de Ics pueblcs indigenas del 8 dejulio del 2005.
4) P e t i c i h Comisi6n hteramericana medida cautelar cornunidades Tornabe y
    Miami.
5) CD Rom Proyecto Laguna de Micos e GolfResort (Prcyecto Bahia de Tela)
6) Cornunicado publico Ofraneh Proyecto Laguna de Micos e GolfResort.
    (Proyecto Bahia de Tela) del 7 de octubre de 2005.
7) Decreto k e a Bajo Rkgimen Especial Bahia de Tela.
8) CONSULTONA LEGAL A FINDE DETERrYIrNAR LOS EFECTOS 0 IMPACTOS
    JURJDICOS QUE CAUSA LA EMISIONY VIGENCIA DEL DEECRETO 90-90
    EMITIDOPOk ELSOBERANO CONGRESONACIOWALDELA REPUBLICA DE
    HONDURAS ENRELACION A LOS DERECHOSGAR4NTIZADOS POR EL
    CONVENIO 169 SOBKE PUEBLOSXDIGENAS Y TNBALES SUSCRITO PQR EL
    GOBIERNODEHONDURAS
9) Selltencia definitiva Juzgado de Letra Secciona: de Tela con dictada en fecha
    29 de marzo de 2005.
10)Extract0 peticiSn 906-03 comunidad Szn Juan de Tela.
11)Infonne Doudou Diene, Relator Especial sobre las forrnas contemporhnezs
    de racisrno, discriminaci0nracial, xenofobia y formas conexas de
    intolerancia.
12)Diap-ostico CCARC tenencia tierra pueblos garifimas y ixisquitos de
    honduras.
13) Denuncia CCAIYC
14)Denuncia Codett Triuiifo
i5)DictamennedizoSecundinoTorres
16)Acta de citaci6n Secundino Torres
17) Estudio de evaluacih de inipzcto ambiental Proyecto Lagma de Micos e Golf
   Resort
18) Fotos invasiones `Triunfo de la Cruz
19) Mapas reclsmos territoriaks comunidades Tornabe y San Juan Tela.




                                         7

                                                                                  I?
En efecto en referencia a propiedades y posesimes respaIdadas por tituios o
certificaciones e! PDI, presi que estas se agruparan dentro de !a categoria de Ia
proFiedad privada e! que PS un contrasentido e n tirminos legales.

3) La falta de consideraclon con respecto a las sugerencias brindadas pcr las
comunidades indigenas sobre la ejecucibr, del PATH n o han sido minimamente
tcnida e n cuenta lo que lastiniosamente hace pensar que igualmente ninguna
consideracih tenciran, por 1os funcionarios del Banco y por las instituciones
gubernarnentales involucradas. e n el proyecto, las eventuales sugerencias de ios
pueblos indigenas. De tal Ilianera la politica de apertura promocionada se
traduciri e n mera ret6rica.

4) Los proyectos utilizados como muestras en la interaccibn Gobierno - Pueblos
Indigenas son proyectos que no solo no benefician sino afectan directamente las
comunidades etnicas (PRONOT, Proyecto desarrollo turistico sostenible de          la
costa norte Honduras, RERUAL).

5) El manejo de las areas protegidas es totalmente entregado e n las rnanos de
ONGs (PROLANZATE, PROBAL) que hostigan asperamente 10s pueblos indigenas
asentados e n las Areas de arnortiguamiento, generando de tal manera duros
conflictos en un ciima de zozobra permanente.

6) En ningin Iugar del Plan se prevl la posibilidad del co - manejo con las
comunidades indigenas de las areas protegidas.

El pesimismo manifestado aumenta en consideraci6n con !os instrunientos
legales para la regularizacibn del ordenamiento territorial dispuesto por el Estado
en el Plan de Desarrollo Indigena redactado segun la menzioriada OP4.20

PLAN DE DESARROLLBINDIGIGNA
El presente Pian postula la creacibn, con ia participacion conjunta y directa de
las    comunidades     ktnica    del   proceso  de   1egalizaci6n,  de  un sistema
descentralizado de gesti6n de la propiedad inmueble (regularizacih, titulacih,
catastro, registro e n folio real) integra& por entidades publica y privada.

En el marco normatho, el Plan contempla la emision de reglamentos para
desarroliar el rnarco juridico de protecci6n de grupos indigenas y afro -
hondureiios.

En ese sentido se afecta ctlalquiera reivindicacihn indigena de ingreso en una
plena tutela normativa en cuanto eventuales reglamentos rrnitidos jfuentes
norrnacivas secundarias) se ubicarian e n la parte mas baja de ia escalera de las
hentes del derecho bien lejos de la fuerza y de ias garantias que podria- Sriridar
?!maley territorial indigem, el proyectc? de la c u d fue presentado hace adns a!
 Gobierno que lo dejo en el olvido.
Ademas se previ: qm para determinar y dar a conocer la normativa zplicable SP
 desarroilaraii campafias de consulta y capacitacih en las que se tomara en
 consideraciijn la prgctica y experiericia del P U R con este tipo de comunidades.

                                                                                       20
   A1 respecto evidenciamos cpe el PAAR, como sostenicio anteriormente, nGnca
   ha renido en considerach las sugerencias y las modificas a 10s planes de
    ordenamier,to territorial propuestas pcr las ciimunidades (ejemplo reuniCn de
    San Juan de Tela del 25 octubre del 2003).

    En realidad la direccibn normativa principal se encuentra cristalizada en la Ley
    de Ordenamiento Territorial asperamente criticada por 10s pueblos etnicos. (Vease
    documentos anexos).

    Todo eso a pesar de que e n el mismo Flan se nace referencia a la normativa e n
    vigor hasta la fecha (Legislacibn agraria y ambiental en particular) como ejemplo
    de normativa totalmente inadecl-wla a sohentar las prsblemiticas indigenas: la
    criticadisima Ley de Ordenamiento no se destaca desde e: mismo eiifoque de !as
    leyes territoriales que la precedieron.
                                                                 .-
                                                                  '

,   No aparece claro Ademas cual seria el rol y la participacion de las cornunidades
    indigenas en las fases preliminares (Actividades preparatoria, delimitaci6n de
    Municipios, investigacibn y validacion, lega!izaci6n y titulacibn)

    For otro lado, dando por supuesto que e n la participacion corn-unitaria del PD! e n
    las actividades de mapeo y toponomastica con manejo de SIC;, previo a la
    demarcaci6n debe utilizarse tambien personal indigena capacitado, n o aparece
    claro cual sera la composicibn y el funcionamiento de las instituciones
    encargadas de la resolucion de !os conflictos durante el proceso de regularizacibn
    o sea la Mesa naciona! de Resolution de Conflictos, la figura de! Consejo
    departamental de Desarrolio y la utilidad y el poder de 10s cornitis locales
    considerando que aparece mas que manifiesta la imposibilidad de resolucibn
    amistosa de conflictos que se remontan a muchos afios atras y que ven
    encausados parte con un sensible desequilibrio en terrnino de poder politico y
    consiguients inseguridad en termiiios de garantias procesuales,

    Estos mecaiiismos alternativos de soluci6il de conflictos accrdes con la Ley de
    Condiacibn y Arbitraje necesitaran de una disciplina rigida. con respecto a1
    kmbito de aplicacih y deberian ser obligatorios y preferibles a la justicia
    ordinaria, sea porque agilizarian el despacho de 10s juicios sea porque el-l el curso
    de 10s afios la justicia ordinaria se ha rnostrado iiicapaz de solucicnar
    imparcialmente las controversias que involucran 10s pueblos indigenas con
    respecto a la tenencia de la tierra.

     La hipotizada resolucibn no jurisdiccional de cor,flictas es !a soluci6n preferible
     para lograr el objetivo de una administraci6n de !a justicia en termino de acccso,
     ecpidad e im-parcialidad siempre que dicho disefio juridic0 sea planeado
     detalladarnente e n cuanto a1 ambito de aplicacibn y definicibn y delimitaciiin
     normatha y gars-ntia de asegurar fondos para el desarrollo de las federaciones
     indigenas dirigidos a1 mantenirniento de UT?bufete de asesoria legal, capacitado
     c m rr-oderfia herrariiientas, el cuai proporcionaria asisteacia e n planta estable a
     10s pueblos iadigenas y negros ciei pais.

     Una evmtuai Ley sobre la ResaIuci6n Alterna de Conflictos y promocibn de la paz
     Social que defina y abarqirte toda la materia e n objeto seria oportuna para
     garantizar certeza del derecho y unifarmidad a nivel procesual.

                                                                                               21
Adsmas se subraya que hace falta            UP,^participacioii activa de !os rniernbros d:
las coinunidades e n la etapa de imestigaci6n y validacijn de la irifmrnaci0n y no
simplemente una. actividad de consulta respecto a resultados va adquiridos.

EE CCNCLUSION SE EVICENCIA QUE ES'I'E ENSAYO REPRESENTA SOLO UN
RESUMEN DEL PRCYECTO PATH E' POLITICAS CONEXAS Y UF! BORR4DOR DE LAS
TEhIATICAS, DE LAS OPINIOYES Y DE LAS SUGERENCIAS QUE, EN EL MARCO DE LA
POLITTCA DE PARTICIPl4CION EFECTIVA Y ACTIVA DE LOS PUEBLOS INDIGENAS EN
LA DEFINICION DE PROGRAMAS QUE LES AFECTEN EN MANERA OiRECTA Y EN EL
RESPETO DE LA NORMATIVA INTERNACIONAL EN MATERIA, SEAN DESARROLLADAS
EN ETAPAS SUCESIVAS.




                                     diciernbre del 2003
No.
      ACTWIDADjTEMA                      TIEMTO
 1.   Llegada de Delegados                 Dia antes
2 ,   Inscripcion de Oelegados             Una Iiora   Clada    uno       de Facilitadores
      Entrega de paquetes                              ilenara la hoja de
                                                       inscription.          -__
 3 ,  Inaugurationdel taller               10 Minutos  Pienaria              Gregoria Flores

 4.  'Introduceion y presentaciori del     Una liora   Plenaria
      Programa y Gbjetivos del taller.                 Preguntas
 5.   Kntroduccihn sobre la Ley de         15 Minutos     Exposic'i o n en   Teresa Reyes
      Propiedad Predial mas Segura              .___         ienaria
                                                                                                  -.I
 6.                                      4 horas       Grup:s  de t r a b G r Deiegados
      An4lisis de la problem&tica
      en mareria de tenencia de       I
      tierra del pueblo Garifuna
 7.   Exposicion de 10s grupos de U n a h o r a        Rzlatores              Delegados
      trabajo                                                                ______
 8.   OircusiBn      del    AnPlisis Cuatro HGras      Grupos de trabajc                      -4
      Ambiental.                                                              Delegados              I

 9.   ExposiciOn de ios grupos de UnaHora              Relatores              Delegados
      trabajo                                                                                        I
11.   Aniilisis    del    Plan     de Cuatro Eoras     Grupos de trabajo                      -------
                                                                              Delegados
      Desarrallc Indigena              11                                                            II
                                                       Relatcres              Delegados              !i
                                                                                                  -A
                                                       Lluvia de Ideas        hliriam Miraiida       I
                                                                                                     I
                                                       Lluvia de Ideas
                                                                              Giegoria Flores        i1


     ANNEX I1

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE


                                                                                                            r\
                                                                                                  _ _   k!

 THEWORLD BANWIFC/M.I.G.A.                                                                              '&
  OFFICEMEhfO                              DUM                                                         -




    DATE:  February 9,2006                                                                                -*



      TO:  Ms.EdithBrownWeiss, Chairperson, IBRD/IDAInspectionPanel
                                                                                             .-


    FROM:  Giaeme Paul Wheeler, Acting'Managing Director, M

EXTENSION: 85920

 SUBJECT:  Requestfor Xnspection Panel Review of the HondurasLandAdministrationProject
           -ManagementResponse                                           <.'


           Management has reviewed the Request for Inspectior, of the subject project (RQ06/01). The
           attached response has beenpreparedby Management to the claims raised in this Request.



           Attachment



           clicc: Messrs./Mmes:   D. Freestone (LEGV?); A. Peuker (MDS); G. Grandolini (BCFBD); J.
                                  Underwood (OPCS); S. Lintner (ESDQC); D. klilverton (EXTCC); P.
                                   Cox (LCRVP); M. Cackler (LCSES); J. Armitage (LCC2C): J. Muiioz
                                   (LCSER).

           cc: Messrs./Mmes:       P. Wolfowitz, L.Obeng(EXC); E.Abbott (IPN)




                 r


             REQUESTFORINSPECTION PANELREVIEW OF THE
                 HONDURASLANDADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                     (CREDIT NO. 3858-HO)


                                         Table of Contents

I. Bank 1lanaPernentResponseto InspectionPanel Review

11. Annexes to Alanagernent Resporrseto InspectionPanel Review

  Annex 1:Claimsand Responses                                                                       I.
  Annex 2: Chronology of KeyProjectPreparationandImplementationEvents
    -                                                                                              . .
                                                                                                    
    Chronology of events from January 2003 to November 2005.. ..................                    2.1
    Consultationevents on the design of a project to integrate the National
    Registry andCadastra! System (SINRECj, January-February 2003...............                     2.2
    Aide Memoire of consultation between representatives from civil society and
    PAAR Project, August 26, 2003. ...............................................................  2.3
    Consultationevent on draft Property Law, October 8, 2003......................                  2.4
    Consultation workshop organized by Ofraneh, and financed by PAAR
    Project, San Juan, Tela, October 25-26: 2003.................................................   2.5
    Aide Memoire of meetingbetween representatives from Ofraneii and
    members of National Congress, November 12,2003.. ...........................                    2.6
    Firstroundof consultations on the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
    and Environmental Assessment, November 26, 2003..............................                   2.7
    Second round of consultations on the Indigenous Peoples Developinent Plar,
    and Environmental Assessment, December 2, 2003.................................                 2.8
    Aide Memoire of meeting between the Vice-president of Ofraneh and PATH
    staff, January 13, 2005....................................................................     2.9
    Report of dissemination activities conducted by PATH staff in Garihna
    areas, January 2005. ..................................................................         2.10
    Invitation and minutes of working session to integrate the provisionai Inter-
    Institutional Commission for the demarcation and titling of Garifuna
    communities, February 24, 2005.. ....................................................           2.11
    Minutes of the creation of the Mesa Regional de Regularizacidn y
    Resolrtcidn de ConJZictosde -4tZdntiduy Ccldn, and prelininary selection of 8
    communities and 12protected areas to participate inthe Project, March 15-
    17, 2005.. ................................................................................     2.12
    Public statement against PATHissued b y Ofraneh, April 28, 2005.. ...........                   2.13
    Minutes of the Mesa Regional's meeting in Sangrelaya, April 29, 2005.. .....                    2.14
    Minutesof the meetingbetween members of Mesa Regional and
    representatives from Ofraneh, June 9, 2005.........................................             2.15
    List of participants integratingthe working commission o f Mesa Regional
    and the three Mesas Locales of Guadaiupe, Cocalito, and Sangrelaya, June 9,
    2005.. .............................................................                            2.16
    PATHnewsletter reportkgProject activities in Miskito andGarifuna                                2.17

  Letter sent to the World Bank by Ofraneh, Augast 2005..........................
  communities,April-July, 2005.......,................................................
                                                                                                          2.18
  Minutes of the meetingbetweenMesa Regioizal andWorld Bank staff,
  September 22, 2005 .................,..................................................                 2.19
  Minutes of the meetingbetweenMesa Regional and World Bank staff,
  November4, 2005......................................................................                   2.20
  Specialnlinutes issuedbyMesa RegionaZ, November4,2005.. ....,........                                   2.21
  Letter from the World Bank to the Mesa Regional as a follow-up to the
  November4 meeting,November 11 2005                                                                      2.22
                                            ~


 Annex 3: OfranehStatementsRegardingTheir InternalDispute
  Notificationfrom Ofranehinterdicting hlr.Angel Amilcar (201611from acting
  as the Organization's General Coordinator, March4, 2005.........., .........           ..               3.1
  Prkss release from Ofranehsignedby Mr.Angel Amilcar Col6n declaring
  invalid the extra-ordinaryassembly of March 23, 2005.............                    ................   5.2
 Annex 4: Correspondence BetweenRequesters and Bank Management
 (August to November 2005)            .
  Letter from the World Bankto Ofraneh, September 14, 2005....................                            4.1
  Minutes of meetinginTegucigalpabetweenWorld Bank staff and Ofraneh
  representatives,September 21, 2005.. ......................................,......,.                    4.2
  Minutes of meetingbetweenMesa Regional andWorld Bank staff inL a
   Ceiba, September 22, 2005..................................................I...                        4.3
  Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, October 20, 2005..                                               4.4
  Letter from Ofranehto the World Bank, October 25, 2005... . ........ ........                           4.5
  Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, October 27, 2005... .               ..........................
                                                                                     .................    4.6
   E-mail from Ofranehto the World Bank, November 3, 2005.....................                            4.7
   Letter from Ofranehto the World Bank, November 6, 2005.. .... .. ..I.. .                               4.8
  Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, November 18,2005.. . .                .~. .. .. .,.............. 4.9
 Annex 5: Minutes of Internal Bank Management Meeting, November 18,
 2005                                                                                                       5.
 Annex 6: Selected Project SupervisionDocuments
   ManagementLetterfollowing Project supervisionmissions, September 19-23
   and October 11-15, 2005........ ................................... ..........,.,.....
                                       .                                         .                         6.1
   ManagementLetter following a Project supervisionmission, November 2-4,
   2005.............................................,..................     .................... .. ,      6.2
 Annex 7: UnofficialEnglishTranslation of Title V, Chapter 111,andArts. 110
 and 111of HondurasPropertyLaw (No. 82-2004)                                                                7
111.Map 1 IBRDNo. 34485 "HondurasLandAdministrationPrqject,Garifuna
            -
    CommunitiesandRelatedSites"

IV. Original Documents inSpanish for CorrespondingAnnexes
    Consultationevents onths designof a projectto integratethe National
    Registry and CadastralSystem (SINREC), January-Febriiary2003...............                            2.2
    Aide Mernoireof consultationbetweenrepresentativesfrom civil society and
    PAAR Project,August 26, 2003.. .........................................  ......~...,..........        2.3

Coesultation ever,t on dralt Property Law, October 8. 2003......................             2.4
Aide Mernoire of meeting between representatives from Ofraneh and
members of National Congress, November 12, 2003............. ..............
                                                                        ..                   2.6
Firstroundof consultations on the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
and Envirofimentd A4ssessment,November 26, 2003..............................                2.7
Second round of consultations on the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
and Environmental Assessment, December 2. 2003.................................              2.8
Aide Menioire of meeting between the Vice-president of Ofraneh and PATH
staff, January 13, 2005.................................... ..........................._.... 2.9
Report of disseminztion activities conducted by P A T 2 staff inGarifuna
areas, January 2005. ....................................  .~.. .... ........... ....
                                                               ..    .           ..    ,.    2.10
Invitation and minutes of working sessionto integrate the provisional Inter-
Igstitutional Commissionfor the demarcation and titling of Garifuna
~'Drnrnunities,February 24, 2005.. ....................................................     - .
                                                                                            9.11
Minutes of the creation of the Mesa Regional de Regularizacldn y
Resolucidn de Conjlictos de Afldnttda y Coldn, and preliminary selection of 8
communities and 12protected areas to participate inthe Project, March 15-
                                                     . .                                     2.12
Minutes of the Mesa Regional's meetingin Sangrelaja, April 29, 2005.. .,...
17, 2005.............,................,............. .. ..................................
                                                                                             2.14
Minutes of the meetingbetween membersof Mesa Regional and
representatives from Ofraneh, June 9, 2005. ...........................,.,,......"..         2.15
List of participants integratingthe working commission of Mesa Regional
and the three Mesas Locales of Guadalupe, Cocalito, and Sangrelaya, June 9,
2005.. .............................................................                         2.16
PATH newsletter reporting Project activities inMiskito and Garifuna
communities, April-July, 2005. .........,.........,..............,....................       2.17
Minutes of the meetingbetween Mesa Regional and World Bank staff,
September 22, 2005.. .....................................................,.............     2.19
Minutes of the meetingbetween Mesa Regional and World Bank staff,
November 4, 2005......................................................................       2.20
Special minutes issued by MesaRegional, November 4, 2005.. ....,........                     2.21
Letter from the World Bank to the Mesa Regiovlal as a follow-up to the
November 4 meeting, November 11, 2005                                                        2.22
Notification from Ofraneh interdicting Mr.Angel Amilcar Col6n from acting
 as the Organization's General Coordinator, March4,2005 ......................                3.1
 Press release from Ofraneh signedby Mr.Angel Ainilcar Col6n declaring
 invalid the extra-ordinary assembly of March 23, 200.5. ............................         3.2
 Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, September 14,2005........~.........       ..          4.1
 Minutes of meeting inTegucigalpa between World Bank staff and Ofraneh
 representatives, September 21,2005.. .....................*. .....,..... .......,...,.
                                                                              .               4.2
 Minutesof meetingbetween Mesa Regional andWorld Bank staff inLa
 Ceiba, September 22, 2005      ......................................................        4.3
 Letter from the World Bank'to Ofraneh, October 20, 2005.. .......,..,..........              4.4
 Letter from Ofraneh to the World Bank, October 25. 2005.. .......,.......,...,.              4.5
 Letter from the World Bank to Ofraneh, October 27, 2005.. .....................              4.6
 E-mail from Ofraneh to the World Bank, Novexber 3, 2005..............I......                 4.7

Letter from Ofranehto the World Bznk, November 6, 2005.. ...................                4.8
Letter from the U`orld Bank to Ofraneh, November 18. 2005.. ..................              4.9
Management Letter following Project supervision missions, September 19-23
and October 11-15, 2005...............................................................      6.I
Management Letter foliowing a Project supervisicnmission, November 2-4,
2005......................................................................................  6.2

                      BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSETO
             REQUEST FOR INSPECTIONPANEL REVIEW OF THE
                HONDURASLAND ADMINISTRATION PROJ'ECT
                              (CREDITNO.3858-HG)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspectionof the Honduras LandAdministra-
tion Project (Credit No. 3858-HO1, received by the Inspection Panel on Jmuary 3, 2006,
and registered on January 10, 2006 (RQ06/1). Manageniefit has prepared the following
response.


                                                                  CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms and Terms                                                                                                                              iv
I. Introduction..   ........................................................................................................................
                                                                              ,.............................................................................
                                                                                           ...................................       ...........................   P
11. The Request                                                                                                                                                    1
111. ProjectEackground
                  .......................................................................................
                                                .....................................
                                                                                                                 ;.........,.i..............................     ,.3
    The Honduras Land Administration Program........................................................................                                               3
    Project Objectives ................................................................................................................... 4
    Project Milestones .................................................................................................................. 4
                                                                                                                                                                   4
    Project Status,...............................................................................................................
    Project Components................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                   5
    Summary o f Maiiagement Response

IV.  Special Issues .......................................................... ..............................................................f""'56
                                                                 .........................................................................                       .




    The barifuna People............................................................................................................... 6
         I


    Consultations and the Participatory Nature o f the Project......................................................                                                8
    The Honduran Legal Framework..........................................................................................                                        14
    Collective versus IndividualTitling .....................................................................................                                     20
    Protected Areas and Garifuiia Territorial Claims .................................................................
    Management Responsiveness to Requesters' Concerns: August 2005 to Present.,                                                                      ..............21
                                                                                                                                                                  23

V.   Management's Response                      ............................... ........................... ..,......................................25

Annexes
Annex 1.       Claims and Responses
Annex 2.       Chronology o f Key Project Preparation and ImplementationEvents
Annex 3.       Ofraneh Statements Regarding Their Internal Dispute
Annex 4.       Correspondence BetweenRequesters and Bank Management
               (Augustto November 2005)
Annex 5.       MinutesofInternalBank Management Meeting, November 8, 2005, addressing
               Complaints Received from Members of Ofraneh
Annex 6.       Selected Project Supervision Documents
Annex 7.       UnofficialEnglishTranslation o f Title V, Chapter 111, and Arts. 110 and 111 o f
               HonduranPFoperty Law (No. 82-2004)
Maps
Map 1.         IBRDNo. 34485 "Honduras LandAdministration Project, GarifunaCommuni-
               ties and Re!ated Sites"




                                                                               iii


                            ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BF           Bank Procedures
EA           EnvironiiientalAssessment
EivlP        EnvironmeiitalManagement Plan
S a          Hectare
IACHR        Inter-American Commission on EumznRights
iBKD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
ILO          International Labor Organization
rNA
IPDF         National Agrarian Institute (Institute NacionalAgrario)
             Indigenous Peoples Development Plan                                        F

IPN          Inspection Panel
OD           Operational Directive
OMS          Operational Manual Statement
OP           Operational Policy
PAAR         Rural Land Management Project (Proyecto de Administracih de Areas Rurales)
?AD          Project Appraisal Document
PATH         Honduras Land Administration Program (ProgramadeAdministracidn de
             Tierras de Honduras)
PCD          Project Concept Document
PCN          Project Concept Note
PDO          PrQject Development Objective
S N A P      National Property Administration System (SistenzaNacional de Administracidn
             de la Propiedaa`j
SINAPH       HonduranNational System o f ProtectedAreas (Sistemanacional dekreas Pro-
             tegidas de Honduras)
UCP          Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora.de Proyectos),under the Se-
             cretariat o f Governance and Justice


                                           TERMS
Ethnic Lands For the purposes o f the Project, the term Ethnic Lands is defined inthe Credit
             Agreement to mean "those lands that have ancestrally and historically been set-
             tled by Amerindian groups and/or Afro-Honduran communities for their use and
             that constitute their habitat on which they undertake their traditional productive
             and cultural practices."
FoZio Real   The parcel-based registration technique of landrights, as opposed to the deed-
             based technique.
 Process     Per OP 4.12, paragraphs 7 and 3 1, a "Process Framework" is prepared by Gov-
 Framework   ernment when Bank-supported projects may cailse resfxictions in accessto natu-
             ral resources ir.legally-designated parks and protected areas. The purpose o f the
             Process Framework i s to establish a process by which members o f potentially
             affected communities participate inthe design of project components, determina-
             tion o f measures necessary to achieve resettlement poiicy objectives, and imple-
             mentationand monitoring o f relevant project activities.



                                               iv


                                  I. INTRODUCTION

1.       On January 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel registcred a Request for Inspectioii,
IPN ReqEest RQ06I1 (hereafier referred i o as "the Request"), concerning the Honduras
Land Administration Project (kilown in Honduras as Progmnzu de Adniinistmcidn de
Tierras de Hondzlras, or PATH) (Credit No. 3858-HO) partially financed bj the Interna-
tional Development Associatioii (IDA). Throughout this document, the Honduras Land
Administration Project i s referred to as PATH or the Project.

2.       This Management R.esponse to the Request for inspection contains the
following sections: Section I1briefly presents the Request and Section I11provides the
Projet background. Section IV concerns issues o f special relevance to the Rekpest,
including a brief description o f the Garifuna people, the pxticipatory nature o f the
Project, the Honduran Iegal framework on land issues, the issue o f collective versus
individilal titling, and the overlap o f protected areas with Garifma territorial claims.
Section V summarizes Management's response. Arinex 1presents the Requesters' claims,
together with Management's detailed responses, intable fomat. Annexes 2 to 7 contain
supporting documentation referred to in thp, Response, including a chronology o f key
Project preparation and implementation events, and the correspondence between the
Requesters and Bank Management. `4 map o f the region follows the Annexes (Map I,
IBRDNo. 34485).



                                    II. THEREQUEST

3.        The Request for Inspection was submitted by Organizacih Fraternal Negra
Hondurefia (Ofraneh) on behalf o f the Garifuna population o f Honduras (hereafter re-
ferred to as the "Requesters").

4.        The Request concerns three principal issues: (i)the risk o f atomization o f
 Garifuna collective titles. and delivering Garifuna land claims to non-indigenous
organizations inthe form o fprotected areas; (ii)  the consultations and participatorynature
of the Project; and (iii) interplay between the Project and Honduras Property Law as it
                         the
relates to the recognition o f the Requesters' territorial claims. The Request also addresses
the responses from the Bank to matters raised by the Requesters related to the Project.

 5.       Attached to the Request are 13 annexes:

        (i)      Public communication regarding the PATH;

        (ii)     Ofraneh's complaint regarding violations o f OD 4.20 (with attachments)
                 of August 22,2005;

        (iii)    World Bank letter o f September 14, 2005;

Z O t d i ~ ~ s




         (iv)     Minutes ofOfraneh-World Bankmeetingof September 21,2005;

          (v)     World Bank letter of October 20,2005;

          (vi)    Ofraneh letter of October 25, 2005;

          (vii)   Worid Bank letter of October 27,2005;

          (viii)  Ofraneh letter of October 31,2005;

          (ix)    Gfraneh e-rnail ofNovember 3,2005;

    -     (x)     Ofraneh ietter of November 4,2005;

      . (xi)      World Bank letter o fNovember 18,2005;

          (xii)   Certificates of submittal of petitions to the Inter-American Commission on
                  HumanRights (IACHR); and

          (xiii)  Certificates and poifits in minutes of the Gariftina communities, stating
                  their positionregardingthe PATH.

          No other materials were received by Mznagement ins~pportofthe Request.

6.        The Requesters claim that the Bank has failed to comply with provisions of the
following Operational Policies and Procedures:

          0    OP/BP 4.01, Environmental Assessmefit, January 1999;

          0    OP/BP 4.04, Natural Habitats, June 2001;

          0    OMS 2.34, Tribal People inBankFinancedProjects, February, 1982;
               OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples, September 1991;
               OP/BP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples, July 2005; and
                                1 .I




          0    World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information, September 2002.

7.        In connection with Indigenous Peoples,' Management notes that the Requesters
claim violation of OMS 2.34 (1982), OD 4.20 (1991) and OP/BP 4.10 (2005). Manage-
ment'sresponse, however, is framed under the applicable policy on Indigenous Peoples
 (OD 4.20 issued in 1991), rather than OMS 2.34 or OPiBP 4.10. The Project had its Pro-

 ' The Afi-o-descendant Garifuna people, o f whom the Requesters are members, are covered by the IPDP
 prepared for P A T Hpursuant to OD 4.20, as are members o f Amerindian peoples (Miskito: etc.) living in
 Honduras. This treatment o f the Garifma reflects Management's judgment, taking into consideration the
 defining characteristics set forth in paragraph 5 o f OD 4.20, about the nature o f the Garifuna. Given that
 other -4fro-descendant groups inother countries and settings exhibit different case-specific characteristics.
 this Managementjudgment can quite zppropriately vary from case to case.




                                                        2

                                                                                114anagementResponse


ject Concept Document (PCD) Review Meeting on April 9, 2003 and the Project Ap-
praisal Docwncnt (PAD) Decision Meeting on December 8, 2003. OMS 2.34 (February
1982) was replaced by QD 4.20 in September 17, i991. GPiBP 4.10 applies to projects
for which a Project Concept Note (PCN) Review takes place on or after July 2005, thus it
does not apply to this project.



                                 111. PROJECT BACKGROUND

THEHON'DURASLANDADMINISTRATION PROGRAM

8.     -  The Honduras Land Administration Program (PATH) builds on sueefssful
pilot experiences developed under a previous Bank-financed project. The genesis o f
PATH dates back to the Bank-financed Rural Land Management Project (PAAR),
implemented between i997 and 2003 (IDA Credit 29400; Supplemental Credit 29401). A
Land Administration Modernization component under PAAR supported the development
o f technological platforms (e.g., software design, databases, web-based applications,
hardware, data migration, training) and land administration qrocehres and manuals in
order to establish a parcel-based registration system (Folio Real). These were piloted
 successfully in the Department o f Comayagua. Under PAAR, 27,500 hectares (ha) o f
 indigenous lands in 13 Tolupan communities were demarcated and titled. This experience
was conmended as a best practice example in participatory demarcation in the Bank's
review, "Indigenous Teoples DevelopmentPlans - Thematic Review" (2002).

 9,       PATH is the first phase of a three-phase program.Building on the successful
 experiences o f PAAR, the Govement o f Honduras requested Bank support to expand its
 iand administration reform efforts, to be channeled through an Adaptable Trogram Loan
 (APL). APLs provide phased support for long-term development programs. They involve
 a series o f loans that build on the lessons learned from the previous loan(s) inthe series.
 An APL involves agreement on: (i)the phased, long-term development program
 supported by the loan; (ii)      sector policies relevant to the phase being supported; and (iii)
 priorities for sector investments and recurrent expenditures. Triggers define when to
 move to the next phase. Subsequent loans in the series are phased based on satisfactory
 progress inmeeting the definedmilestones, benchmarks or triggers.

 10.      An APL is the appropriate instrumentto support the long-term reform and
 investment program being carried out in Honduras. The Government expressed its
 intentionto embark on a long-term and far-reaching legal, institutional, andtechnological
 reform to formalize property rights for the vast major& o f Hondurans, resolve land
 conflicts, facilitate access to land by the poor, reduce land transaction costs, increase the
 transparency of land administration services (cadastre, registry, certifications), and

  Note that the "Project" refersto the fust phase ofthe three-phaseLandAdministration "Program," and
 this is how it is describedinthe PAD. Since eachphase is considereda separateIDA Credit, the Credit
 Agreementrefersto the LmdAdministration "Project." Other Project documents &en use bothterms in-
 terchangeably.




                                                      3

Hsndwas



strengthen municipal capacities for their decentralized implementation. The ensuing
PATH serves as one o f the Goverrment's instrumentsto accelerate growth and increase
sustainability whiie reducing rural and urban poverty. Secure land rights fced into the
broad goal o f poverty reduction and sustainable development supported under the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, a d improved governance in the
country. The agreed triggers for Phase IIof the Land Administration Program are: (i)
creation o f a new institutional framework for the National Property Administration
System (SINAP), (iij achievement o f 80 percent or better results o f the Project
Development Objective indicators, (iii)adoption o f legal / regulatcry framework for
indigenous Peoples' lmds, and (iv) cornpietion o f baselifie data gathering for Phase TI.


PROJECTOBJECTIVES
    -                                                                                  k
11.     The ProjectDevelopmentObjective is to establish and operate an integrated
and decentralized land administration system (comprising public and private
entities) to pravideiisers with accurate informationon urbanand rural parcels,and
effective land administration services in a timely and cost-effective manner. The
system will help increase land tenure security for private and communal lands, reduce
transaction costs, develop natioilal and municipal territorial plans, and develop
management plans for protected areas (including co-management plans in indigenous
lands). The main beneficiaries o f the Project are urban and rural poor who lack tenure
security over their lands, including selected indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities.


PROJECT    MILESTONES

12.     The PCD and PAD Decision Meetings were held on April 17 and December 9,
2003 respectively. Negotiations followed on January 8-9, 2004, and the Board approved
the Project on February 26, 2004. The Project became effective on December 2, 2004.
The closing date i s April 30, 2008. The amount o f the credit i s SDR 16.9 million (USD
25.O million equivalent).


PROJECTCOMPONENTS

Component I: Policy Framework and Institzltional Strengthening (US0 IO.9 million;
26.1percent of total cost)
 13.    This component supports increased transparency and improved governance o f the
country's main land administration institutions. The component's main outputs include
the establishment of the National Property Administration System (SINAP), through
 strengthened legal, regulatory, and institutional frameworks. SINAP will include a Na-
tional Territorial Information System (SINIT), a Registry o f Norms (RENOT), and the
 UnifiedRegistries System(SURE),to be operated by public and private entities.
 Component 2: Area-based Systematic Laxd Regalarization, Titling and Registratiou
 (US0 22.7 million; 58.2percent of total cost)
 14.    This component is directly benefiting localpopulations through regularizationand
 registration of their 1m.d assets. T'ne Project aims to cover different types o f rural and ur-


                                                4

                                                                         i14magement Response



baniand and a broad cross-section of Honduran society. The component's mainoutput is
the incorporztion of land parcels within the project area into SNAP, with the Project fi-
nancing pre-field work, including aerial photography, field survsying o f macro bcunda-
ries such as inter-municipal boundaries, parcel-level surveying and validation, and sup-
port for conflict resolution, titling, and mass registration into SIh'AP.
Component 3: Project Adanagernent, Monitohg and Evaluation (USD 5.3 million; 13.7
percent of total cost)
is.        This component covers the administrative costs of the Project Coordination Unit
(UCP), specifically to implementmonitoring and evaluation activities.

PROJECT    STATUS

16.  -.Progress      towards      achieving  the    project    developmest    cbjectivks   i s
satisfactory. Since the project became effective in December 2004, the Bank has
conducted four supervision missions. The Project's implementation progress i s
considered highly satisfactory. To date, the Project has disbursed USD 17 million, 69
percent o f the total credit amount. The S N A P and its subcomponents have been
established. Five out o f the eight property registries targeted in the project are operating
the system under folio real, reducing considerably the time and cost o f transactions.
Twenty-one municipalities, 140 percent o f the target, are already operating SNAP'S
subsystems, resulting in an improvement in the provision o f services to the public.
Surveyed parcels stand at 23 percent o f target, as planned. More than 50 percent o f
municipal boundaries have been demarcated.

 17.     The regularization o f Indigenous and Afro-Honduran lands i s expected to account
for approximately 5 percent o f the Project's total cost. This component o f the Project i s
proceeding at a slower pace than the rest of the Project, as field activities are preceded by
extensive consultationwith communities.


SUMMARY OF MANAGEMENT'S             RESPONSE

 18.     Management's response to the Request makes four main points: First, no
activities related to the physical demarcation, surveying, conflict resolution or titling o f
any lands in Garifuna regions of Honduras have yet taken place under the Project and
therefore, no claims have been affected. Furthermore, safeguards included in the Project
provide appropriate protection to Indigenous Peopies' land rights if and when these
 activities occur. Second, community participation in the Project i s voluntary and broad
participatory mechanisms are operational. Third, the Project i s consistent with Honduran
 legislation, including the 2004 Property Law, and applicable Bank safeguard policies.
 Lastly, Managemelit has been responsive to the Requesters' concerns and remains
 committed to ongoing meaningful consultations that include all interested Garifuna
 stakeholders.

 19.     Management notes that the Project has caused no harm given that RO
 activities re!ated to physical demarcation, surveying, cosflict reso!ution or titling of
 any lands in Garifuna regions of Honduras have yet taken place under the Project.



                                                5

The only activities carried out with Garifuna communities io date relate to dissemination
o f infamarion and consultations a n i these activities have been in full compliance with
Bank policies.3 in compliance with OD 4.20, OP 4.01, 2nd OP 4.04. the Project
inccrporates appropriate safeguards to preventharm during implementation.

20.     Management affirms that community partkipation in the Project i s
voluntary, and individual communities are free to choose whether or not to participate in
the Project. Appropriate consultations have taken place during Project preparation and
implementation. Moreover, Project design md implementation take into amount
proposals made during the consultation process. Management does note that consultation
has given opportunities to present diverging views about the Project among different
Garifuna stakeholders.

2I.-. Management's view is that the Project incorporates appropsiafe safebuards
to fill potential gaps in Honduran legislation to safeguard the rights o f Indigenous
Peoples. Msnagement has addressed all the Project-specific concerns raised by the
Requesters. To the extent they disagree with the 2004 Property Law, and not with the
Project per se, Management notes that the content o f national laws and regulations i s the
responsibility o f the Government of Eonduras, and that the Government has pct inplace
mechanisms, such as the Project's consultation framework, fm civil society to raise their
concerns on such matters.

22.     Finally, Management reaffirms its commitment to meaningful consultations,
broad participation and open dialogue that allows all interested parties to express
their views about the Project, and to ensure compliance with all Eankpolicies.



                                      IV. SPECIAL ISSUES

THEGARLFUNAPEOPLE

23.     The Garifuna in Honduras live along the northern coast of the country, in an area
commonly known as "the Coast." The Coast covers a geographical area o f about 600
kilometers along the Caribbean Sea and facing the Caribbean Antilles. The Garifuna are
descendants from a inix o f Indigenous Peoples, knomx as the Carib, and African ormer
run-away slaves brought from Sari Vicente I s h d to Roatan Islandby the British during
the eighteenth century. The Spanish authorities almost immediately relocated the
Garifima population to the Honduran mainland. Different sources estimate the Garifuna
population in Honduras to be between 49,000 and 98,000 persons; the 2001 national
census reported 49,952 individuals who self-identify as Garifuna. The 2002-2003


3As arelated point, the Requesters also claim that the Baxk's action under the Project have harmed their
claims before the IACHR. This c i a i would appear to be outside the scope o f Bank competence, and
                                      ~
wholly within that of the Commission. However, even ifthis issue were considered inthe context o f Bank
compliance with OD 4.20, OP 4.31. and OP 4.04, the Project incorporates appropriate safeguards to prevent
harm during implementation.




                                                     6

                                                                         Mfit7agcmentResponse



household surveys reported that the Departments o f Atlantida, Cortes and Coi6n hold 84
percent of the total Garifuna population o f Honduras. while the remainder are in the
Departments of Gracias a Dios (3 percent) and Francisco Akrazan (5 percent), and
scattered across other Departments (7 percefitj. The exact number of Garifuna
cormunities i s imprecise, but estinates indicate the existence o f between 36 and 48
Garifuna comfiiunities located along the Coast (see Map 1).

24.      Insocioeconomic terms, 52 percent ofthe Garifuna live inwban areas, 68 percent
have attended primary school, and infant mortality stands at 12 percent, considerably
lower than the national average. Likewise, 55 percent c f the Garifma population have
their basic needs met as reflected by the National Index o f Unmet Needs (NBI). There i s
a marked difference between rural and urban areas, the former being poorer and with
fewer opportunities than the latter. Inrecent years, remittances have played arl incrsasing
rnle in household incomes, a result of an intense process o f migration o f Garifuna
commnnify members - particularly men - to the United Stztes. As a result, Garifuna
household have higher than average living standads compared to national averages, and
particularly inrelationto other ethnic minority groups inHonduras.

25.      A variety of civil organizationsrepresentthe Garifuna. The community asso-
ciation o f Cristales and Rio Negro was the first Garifuna organization recognized by the
Government o f Honduras. Chronologically, other important organizations include Ofia-
neh (Organizacion Fraternal Negra Hondureiia) created in 1977 and legally recognizedin
1982. The Organizacion de Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario (Odeco) was formed in 1992
and legally recognized in 1994. The Centro Independiente para el Desarrollo de Hondu-
ras (CIDH), Centro para el Desarrollo Comunal (CEDEC), Enlace de Mujeres Negras, la
Mancomunidad de Municipios Garifunas de Honduras (MAMUGAH), la Comision Dio-
cesana de Pastoral Catolica Garifuna, Asociacion Hondureiia de Mujeres Negras
(ASOHMUN), Asociacion de Mujeres Lanigui Wanichigu, and Gemelos de Honduras are
other organizations concerned with the Garifuna. Some o f these organizations are consid-
ered traditional grassroots organizations (community or Patronato level); others are non-
government organizations (NGOs) created around family, gender, professional alliances,
development-specific purposes, or are affiliated with a church; while others are second-
tier national federations or..confederations. These organizations reflect the multiplicity o f
interests and concerns that affect the Garifunapeople.

26.      Garifuna communities currently face multipleand long-standingunresolved
landconflictswhich Governmententities havesought to resolve. The titling programs
carried out by the National Agrarian Institute (INA) over the past three decades have not
met the expectations o f Garifuna communities. Some communities were not titled at all;
 others were issued collective titles for smaller amounts than claimed. Some Garifuna
 families received individual titles. Some lands claimed by Garifuna communities were
 titled to non-Garifuna people. The 2003 participatory Social Assessment carried out as
 part of Project preparation noted that the coexistence o f different types o f ownership and
 use o f the land in the region have generated confusion and conflict among and between
 commmity members, between communities and third parties, and between commuities
 mdlocal and national authorities. More important, regarding m e of the key issues of this
 Request, the Social Assessment observed; "Leaders and community members have

Hondiiror


different viewpoints with regards to land tenure issues. Some Garifuna families .,, would
prefer an individual fee-simple title (domini0 pleno). However, they argue, their leaders
do not allow this. [...] Among the indigenous popuiations [that is, Garl;czlnaand lbfiskito]
this is so becaue some Confederations maintaiz tliat if land is titled individually,
indigenous culture i s at risk.[...I This has created an informal lmd market based on
informa! arrarlgenients that increase tenure insecurity" (see page 32 o f the Social
Assessment).

27.     Over the past few years, the Bank has supported researchon land issues of
indigenousand Afro-Honduranpeoples in Honduras.The Biodiversity inPriority Ar-
eas Project (PROBAP, Grmt No. 28367), implementedbetween 1998 and 2005 with sup-
port from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the Bank, supported one o f the
most comprehensive land tenure studies anion2 Garifuna and Miskito populatjons in
HoGduras (Central American and Caribbean Research Council, 2002). This study%sed a
participatory methodology to map the territorial claims o f 25 Garifuna and Miskito com-
munities along the Coast. Today, many Garifuna communities and organizations use the
results of this study as one o f the empirical sources for their land claims. The Bank and
the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA) sponsored a profile         of indigenous
and Afro-Honduran peoples in Honduras, "Ferjl de 10s Pueblos Indigems y Negros de
Honduras" (2002). The Bank has also supported institutiond building o f Afro-
descendant groups in Latin America that included Garifuna communities, with two work-
shops held in Honduras (February and June 2004). In addition, with the support cf the
Central American Commission of Environment and Development (CCAD), the Bank i s
financing  an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant to strengthen the capacities of
Central American black organizations, including Garifima groups inHonduras.


CONSULTA4TIONS     AND THE PARTICIPATORY NATURE THE PROJECT
                                                        OF

28.     The Requesters claim that

        (i)     Bank experts did not carry out consultation programs in advance o f the
                drafting o fthe Project's Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP);

        (ii)    The Requesters received the draft IPDP (and the Environmental Assess-
                ment, or EA)shortly beforethe only consultation meeting;

        (iii)   In December 2003 representatives of all. the Garifuna communities re-
                jected everything that was established inthe IPDP, while the Bank did not
                take into account alternative proposals made by the Garifuna; and

        (iv)    The Project does not consider the local social organization patterns and the
                preference o f a communal land tenure system.

 29.    Management wishes -to clarify the respective roles of Government and the
 Bank under Bank-financed projects. Governments are responsible for preparing pro-
jects, which includes preparation o f background documents (e.g., Social Assessment,
 EA), policy and operational manuals (e.g., IPDP, Process Framework, Project Opera-
 tional Manual), and consultations. The Bmk's role is to appraise these documents and



                                               8

                                                                                 Munxgement Response


processes and, ifthey w e in accordance with Eank policies, including safeguard policies,
endorse them as the basis for Bank financing. After Project Effectiveness, the role o f the
Government i s to implementthe project whersas the Bank supervises projeci implemen-
tation.

30.      Ofraneh has participatedin ten consultationevents to date, includingduring
Project preparation and implementation. Between Januzry 2003 and February 27,
2004 (the Froject's Board Approval date), representatives o f Qfraneh participated in
seven events sponsored by Government4 related to the Property Law, preparation of the
Project, and the IPDP (see Annexes 2.1 to 2.8). Since Project Effectiveness (December 2,
2004), as part of project implementation, the Requesters were invited to seven additional
events, including consultations, workshops, and other Oecision-making sessions, but par-
ticipded inonly three o f these events (see Annexes 2.9 to 2.12).                            

31.      ,4 wide range of Garifuna stakeholders was consulted as part of the partici-
patory SocialAssessment and preparation of the IPDP in July-August 2003. Three
focal groups, approximately 15 structured interviews with key stakeholders, and 30
household questionnaires (as part o f a survey of over 300 people throughout the country)
were conducted in three Garifuna communities inthe Departments o f Atlantida (Sambo
Creek and TornabC) and Gracias a Dios (Batalla). The Social Assessment included the
participation o f municipal authorities, Patronato leaders (described in more detail in
paragraph 40 below), community leaders, individuals, and civil society organizations,
representing-thebroad spectrum of Garifuna stakeholders.

32.      The Bank-financedPAAR project supported Ofraneh in reviewingthe draft
Property Law. InAugust 2003, Qfraneh and other Indigenous Peoples leaders requested
Government to support (through the Bank-financed PAAR project, the precursor o f the
PATH) a consultation process to review the draft Property Law. On August 26, PAAR
staff met with Indigenous Peoples leaders, including one Ofraneh representative, and es-
tablished an ad hoc working group to review the draft Property Law (see Annex 2.3). The
recommendations o f this working group were discussed on October 8,2003, with the par-
ticipation o f seven Ofraneh representatives, under the auspices o f the PAAR project (see
Annex 2.4).                    ...

33.      Project design took into account recommendations made at consultation
events carried out during Project preparation. A two-day workshop organized by
Ofraneh, and financed by the Bank-fbnded PAAR project, took place in San Juan, Tela,
Atlihtida on October 25-26, 2003 with the participztion o f 109 Garifuna representatives
(see Amex 2 to the Request). Seven working groups elaborated their proposals concern-
ing Indigenous Peoples' lands, protected areas, natural resources management, water and

      ~~




  As a follow-on operation to PAAR,PATHpreparationwas carried out by sIaff workingon PAAR at the
time (2003 and2004), andthus manydocumentsannexedto this Responserefer to PAAR as the Govern-
ment's entity incharge of preparingPATH. Also note that inearly 2003, Governmenthadnot decidedyet
on a name for the PATH, so some documentsrefer to the Project as, iEter alia, secondphasePAAR, the
Project for the Integrationofthe NationalCadastral and Registry System(SINNREC), LandAdministration.
 andthe LandReegu!arizcltion andAdministrationProject(PRATH).




                                                    9

soil management, cultural patrimony and participation. The recomrnendEtions made at
that workshop largely related to the contents o f the draft Law (which eventually became
the Property Law. No, 82-2004) under discussion in Hondwas at the time. Management
was supportive of the Government's efforts to enable Garihurra representatives to make
their concerns about the draft Property Law h o w n to the zppropriate authorities (see
Annex 2.6). The event`s seven working groups also made more specific recommenda-
tions. Project design considered all these proposals and incorporated many. For example,
(i) IPDPassignsresourcesfor ongoing consultations on landtenure issues with
    the
Garifuna comiiuniiies; (ii) Projecf considers co-management of protected areas by
                             the
Garifuna communities; (iii) IPDP assigns resources for legal advice and training of
                              the
Indigenous Peoples; and (iv) community participation in the Project i s voluntary. Other
proposals, such as those related to forestry issues, underground natural resources, or the
appcjntment o f Garifunas to high level public office, fell outside the scope o f the project
(see h e x 2 to the Request, pages 2 to 4, Minutes o f San Juan, Tela, Atlhtida work-
shop, October 25-26,2003).

34.     The Project's IPDP includes a broad and participatory consultationframe-
work for indigenous communities. The IPDP allocates government resources for con-
sultations with Indigenous Peoples (including the Garifuna) related to laid issues. Thus,
the IPDP includes a budget with designated funds for consultations, dissemination of ma-
terials and legal advice to indigenous communities. Moreover, the IPDP includes the es-
tablishment o f a consultation framework through which indigenous communities partici-
pate inthe process o f defining land regularizationprocedures. During Project preparation,
Ofraneh participated inthe two rounds o f IPDP consultations (November 26 md Decem-
ber 2, 2003). At the November 26, 2003 event, participants (representing several Indige-
nous Peoples groups and organizations) requested additional time to review the draft
IPDP submitted by Government for their consideration (see Annex 2.7). Government
granted this request and it was agreed that a follow-up consultation event would take
place on December 2, 2003. The minutes o f this second IPDP consultation event state
that "the participatory methodology, and the political willingness to discuss the project
and its specialized documents (the IPDP and environmental assessment) were well re-
ceived by the participants." Also, "the participants agreed to consult with their constitu-
ents to appoint representgtives to a [national consultation board], the Mesa Nacional
Indigena" (see Annex 2.8). Finally, inthe course of Project implementation, Government
decided that instead o f having one national consultation board, two ethnic-based regional
boards were more appropriate. Thus, under the Project there i s one Garifuna Mesa Re-
gional for the Departments of Atlintida and Colon and one Miskito Mesa Regional oper-
 ating inthe Department o f Gracias a Dios.

 35.     Participants at the two IPDP consultationevents did not raise major objec-
 tions to the Project or its design. As the Project draft documents submitted by Govern-
 ment were weli received by the major civil society stdteholders, andno major objections
 had beenraised at the November 26 and December 2,2003 events, Mamgement decided
 that these project documents were acceptable for disclosure, Project Appraisal and Eoard
 Approval of the Project.




                                              I O

                                                                               Management Response


36.      Management nctes that Project design and implementationconsidered ail the
relevmt issues containedin the December 18-19,2003 Sambo Creek document, and
incorporated many of its proposals (see paragraph39 below). This contrasts with the
Requesters' claim that "all the GarifEna communities in Honduras ... presented a firm
rejection sf everything that was established in the IPDP, while proposing several altema-
tives. However: the Eank did not take into account any o f those proposals'' (page 4, para-
graph 1 of the Request). Management notes that although the Sambc Creek document
expresses sgme concerns about the IPDP, it does not reject the Project or the IPDP. In
fact, the objective o f the Sambo Creek meeting was to "become familiar, appropriate the
documents, and provide suggcstions" to the Project`s IPDP aiid EA.

37.      The Requesters misrepresent the contents of the December 2003 Sambo
Creek document, which praises the diagnosis of Garifuna land tenure issues pre-
sented inthe IPDP. The document notes:

         "The excellent analysis o f the issues that affect ethnic communities in
         Honduras with regards to land tenure and the regularization o f ancestral
         lands and the optimal operational directives that guided the drafting o f the
         efivironmental assessment and the PATH in general give hope to the in-
         digenous and Garifuna ccrnmunities o f Honduras that these will be trans-
         lated into a concrete application of the design by Government and the
         World Bank, with regards to the territorial planning issue that represents
         an essential prerequisite for the survival o f ethnic peoples" (Arinex 2 of
         the Request, sixth attackqent, "Aide Memoire, Consultation on the
         PATH, chapter on IPDP, and REPEPIN Program,"' page 18).

38.      Likewise, most of the 12 land tenure issues raised in the Sambo Creek docu-
ment (Annex 2 of the Request,sixth attachment, page 4) are explicitly addressed by
the Project, including: (ij lack of titling o f Garifuna lands; (ii)   lack o f registration o f ex-
isting Garifuna titles; (5)overlapping claims between Garifuna territorial claims and
 others (e.g., municipalities, protected areas, private landholdings, national lands); (iv)
 lack of Government policy to resolve Garifima land issues; and (v) lack o f Garifuna par-
ticipation in the management o f protected areas. Other issues, such as the expansion o f
the agricultural frontier, the coffee crisis, or the impact o f roads, fall outside the scope o f
the Project.

 39.     Many of the proposals mentioned in the December 2003 Sambo Creek docu-
 ment were incorporated in Project design and are currently under implementation.
 The document lists 14 conclusions, 10 o f which are relevant to the Project6(Amex 2 o f
 the Request, sixth attachment, pages 11 and 12). The Project addresses all these issues
 and incorporates most o f these proposals. For example, (i) Project includes safeguard
                                                                    the
 measures to protect the rights of Indigenous Peclples inthe resolution o f lmd tenure con-
 flicts (see paragraphs 55 and 77 below); (3) commmity participation in the Project i s


   The REPEPIN(ar,d FAFIN)projects anaiyzed inthat document refer to another lion-Bank-funded project.
   The other four conclusions refer to the PAPM aiid REPEPINprojects.




                                                     11

Honduras


strictly voluntary; iiii) prior informed consultation with Garifuna communities i s a pre-
requisite before land regularization inethodologies are issued and before field activities
begin; (iv) the consultation framework does not mix different ethnic groups (see para-
grz~h34); (v! the Praject calls for the issuance of communal titles to Garifuna communi-
ties (see paragraphs 73 and 74 below); and (vi) the Project considers co-mmagement
plans (between Gzrifuna communities, NSOs, and/or other entities) for protected areas
(see paragraph 78 below).

40.     Broad participatory mechanisms are an integral element of Project design.
The findings o f the zbove-mentioned lmd tenure studies, the participztory Social
Assessment carried out during Project preparation, the consultation events, and oiher
soilrces resulted in the Project's adoption of broad participatory mechanisms for
Indigenous Peoples at the grassroots level. In particular, the Social AsseSsment
coduded, "Patronatos are the organizational structure which has the most contah with
the population and understands their interests best." Panonatos are important grassroots
organizations, because they are located within communities and their governing boards
are selected by coinmunity members directly. The close proximity o f Patronatos to
communities increases their social accountability, and brings communities closer to
municipalities. Moreover, Patroi.latos have legal personality, allowing them to implement
publicly finmced projects. Patronatos are represented in the Mesa Regional de
Regularizacidn y Resolzlcih de Conflictos Wadabula" (henceforth Mesa Regional) and
Mesas Locales as explained below.7

41.        Management would like to emphasize the voluntary nature of community
participation in the Project. Only those communities u7illing to participate will have
their lands demarcated and titled. Therefore, individual communities can avoid the poten-
tial harm alleged by the Requesters by choosing not to participate inthe Project.

HISTORYTHEGAKiFUNAMESAREGIONAL
           OF

42.      The Mesa Regional includes a broad range of Garifuna stakeholders. Shortly
after Project Effectiveness (December 2004), under the auspices o f the Project,
Government invited representatives o f a wide range o f Garifima communities and
organizations, including Ofraneh, to participate in a meeting to establish an inter-
institutional commission to organize the Mesa Regional, as agreed at the December 2,
2003 consultation meeting (see Annex 2.11). On March 15-17, 2005, 112 Garifuna
persons, including representatives from 25 Garifuna conimvmities, and municipal and
Pntronato authorities, including representatives from the Association of Municipalities o f
Honduras (AMHON), the principal Garifuna Catholic *Church Organization (Pastoral
Garquna),Ofraneh* and Odeco, gathered in Trujillo, Color? to crezte the Mesa Regional

'Bank  staff have met three times with the Garifuna Mesa Regional (April, September, November 2005),
Once with the Santa FC and San Antonio Mesa Locales (September 2005), and Once with the Miskito Mesn
Regional (April 2005j.
8 The personrepresentingOfraneh at the March2005 Mesa Regional meeting i s not one ofthe Rkquesters.
 The leadership of Ofrzneh is under dispute; see paragraph45 beloiii and Annex 3.




                                                     12

de Hegiilarizacidiz y Resolucidn de Cou?flicros.The Mesa Regional established a guiding
principle of non-exclusion to guarantee that ail interested parties have the right to
participate and express opinions and views ahout the Project (see h m 2.12).          ~
Management mdorses this principle.

43.     In contrast with other Garifha groups, the Requesters declined the
invitation to participate in the establishment o f the Garifulna Mesa Regional.
Invitations to the March 2005 meeting o f the Mesa Rzgionai were circulated widely
among Garifuna orgdnizarions and communities, and this same approach has been used
for subsequent meetings. Ofranzh declined to parlicipate. It was at this xeeting that the
eight communities and twelve protected areas were selected by participafits as candidates
for participation indemarcation and titling activities under the Project.

44.  -. To  complement the Mesa Regimnl, Mems Locales prcmate grassroots-level        -

participation by Garifuna communities. Since the creation o f the ]desa Regional, its
members have met on v~riousoccasions to disseminate Project information to selected
communities and discuss the structure and functioning o f the Mesa Regioval (see An-
nexes 2.14, 2.15, 2.16, 2.17, 2.19, 2.20, and 2.21). Tc complement the Mesa Regionai,
Mesas Locales were created as comnwnity-based mechanisms to address operational as-
pects of the Project ai the local level. The iMesas Locales are specific to each community
and work within the framework o f community assemblies to ensure the participation of
all community members.Mesas Locales have the closest ties to the communities and the
responsibility to report to the Mesa Regiozal if the community chooses to participate in
Project activities. InMay 2005, Mesas Locales were created inthe Garifuna communities
of Santa FC and an Antonio, and inJune inthe communities of Sangrelaya, Guadalupe,
and Cocalito.' Also in June 2005, three Mesrx Regiovlal working commissions were cre-
ated for dissemination, training, and monitoring (see Annex 2.16).

45.     Management takes EO position regarding an institutional dispute within
Bfraneh. In May 2005, Management learned of an intemal dispute within Ofraneh. In
December 2003, there was an ordinary assembly in ambo Creek where a new General
Coordinator and Board o f Ofraneh were elected. In March 2005, an extra-ordinary as-
 sembly was held in Punta.Piedra to replace authorities elected in December 2003. This
extra-ordinary session was not recognized by the Coordinador General o f Ofraneh elected
in December 2003. Since then, the legitimacy of the leadership of Ofraneh has been in
dispute (see Annex 3). Currently, the Coordinator General o f Ofraneh elected in Decem-
ber 2003 i s a member of Mesa Regional, while rhe Requesters, \?rho dispte his leader-
 ship, are not. Fdanagement has kept open channels of communication to any
 Garifuna individua! or orgznization with an interest or concern in connection with
 the PATH.

              e is a diversity of o       ~ among the . i~i a r i ~ ~Garifuna stake~
                                                 ~                  ~s     o           ~
               role of the Project in addressing their Iand e'laims. Gover




                                              13

Mesa Regional have extended open invitations to all Garifma communities and organiza-
tions to participate in the consultation framework sponsored by the Project. Some
Garifuna groaps are actively pzrticipating inthe Froject, others have participated sporadi-
ca!!;.,   while stili others have chosen not to be involved.

47.         Managementnotesthat there is broadsupport for the Projectamoogvarious
Garifuna stakeholders,as shown by the numerous minutes of meetings and statements
made by the A h a Regional (see Annexes 2.14 to 2.17 and 2.19 to 2.21). Colmmunity rep-
resentatives at the Mpsa Regional, not Government, selected the eight communities as
well as the alternztes.

48.         Management has been infornied by Government that the next steps inthis consul-
tzttion process include: (i)disseminating Project informtittion with the new Honduran au-
thorTtities;'O (ii) finalizing the hiring o f a lawyer to support the Mesas; and (iii)         corhening
another plenary event for the entire Mesa Regional to review the work o f the three work-
ing commissions mefitioned inparagraph 44 above, including the review o fthe landregu-
larization and conflict resolutionprocedures.

THEHONDURAN FRARlEWOIiKLEGAL

Legal Framework At the Time o f IPDP Preparation
49.         The Requesters claim that:

            (9      Indigenous community representatives expressed their opposition to the
                    draft Law and manifested their dissatisfaction during a consultation work-
                    shop (October 2003) that took place before the Property Law was ap-
                    proved (June 2004);
             (ii) The Bank, despite knowing that the drzft Law would soon be passed,
                    made no mention o f it inProject documents;
             (iii) Indigenouscommunitiesareconfusedbecausetheyfindthemselvesfaced
                    with two different arrangements for conflict resolfition and titling: on the
                    one hand, the IPDP and the PATH Operational Manual; and on the other,
                    the 2004 Property Law; and

             Gv?    Garifuna people oppose both arrangements since they consider them more
                    restrictive and less generous than the Inteinational Labor Organization`s
                    ConventionNo. i69.l1



 10    Hondurasheld generalelectionsonNovember 27,2005, andthe new Government, including municipal
 authorities, was inauguratedon January 27, 2006.
       Garifunapeople claim that the Project is not consistentwith the ILO Convention 169. While this issue
 may be appropriateto roise within thejurisdictional context of other fora, such as Inter-AmericanHurnz?
 Rights tribunals, the World Bank's obligation inthis project is to ensure compliancewith the Worid Bank's
 applicablepolicies, including the OperationalDirective on IndigenousPeoples.As notedelsewhere, it is
 Management'sview that the Projecthas fully complied with this policy.




                                                         14

                                                                      Management Respnse



50.     Being aware o f concerns by some Garifuna groups about the draft Law, the
B a n k welcomed Government's efforts -through activities financed under the PAAR
project - to enable these groups to make their cmcerns known to the appropriate
authorities (see A m e x 2.6).

51.     Management wishes to siarify the relationship between the IPDP - prepared
under the !e@ framework in place in 2003        -and  the Property L a w approved inJune
2CC4. A brief chronology c f key events is as follows:

        (i)     The Project's IPDP, EA, and Process Framework were disclosed on De-
                cernber 8, 2003;
      - (ii)    The Project was approved by the Bank's Board on February 26,2004, and
                the PAD - dated January 22, 2004 - became publicly available tit the
                Bank's infoshop andthe Government's UCP inTegucigalpa;

        (iii)   The Property Law (Ley de Propiedad Decreto No. 82/2004) became e-
                fective on June 29,2004; and

        (iv)    The Project was declared effective on December 2,2004.

52.     Project design anticipated the possibility of a new law by providing mecha-
nisms (see paragraphs 55 and 56 below) for the continuous flexible adaptation of the
Project to the new law. The Property Law i s not explicitly discussed in Project docu-
ments because its approval and contents were uncertain at the time of Project Appraisal
and Board Approval; the draft Law had been under discussion for more than two years
and it was not certainto be approved.

53.      Project preparation identified potential gaps in the Honduran legal frame-
work. Throughout 2003, Management reviewed the existing legal framework (see Annex
12 o f PAD, which includes the legal analysis as part o fthe documentsavailable inProject
files, and introductory paragraphs inthe IPDP). Inparticular, three gaps that needed to be
filled were critical for the Project's success: (i) o f a legally established parcel-based
                                                  lack
property registry (Folio Real); (ii) o f legislation specifically addressing indigenous
                                        lack
and Afro-Honduran land rights, including appropriate consultation frameworks; and (iii)
lack o f operational procedures to deal with demarcation o f protected areas and their sur-
roundings.

54.      Throughout Project preparation, Management carefully considered and
evaluated options for addressing identified potential gaps in the Honduran legal
framework. At the PCD          '? Review Meeting o f April- 17, 2003, the existing legal
framework was discussed; it was agreed after careful consideration that Project
preparation should proceed. At the PAD Decision Meeting on December 9, 2003, the
question o f whether to wait for passage of a new law was discussed again. Followkg
careful consideraticn o f options, Management decided that it was most appropriate to
continue Project preparation of the first phase of the three-phase APL under the existing


   PCD is the equkden; o fthe current PCN.

lega! and institutional framework, while building into the design specific safeguards (see
next paragraph) addressing the above-mentioned gaps. As the Project under preparation
w2s the continuation o f successful pilot activities idnder the Bank-financed PAA4R(e.g.,
develqment o f participatory demarcation methodologies for Indigenous Peoples' lands,
devdopment o f technological platforms Tor parcel-based registration, land regularization
field manuals), an interruption would haw caused significazt damage in terms o f
sustainability o f investments already made.

55.        The Project includes specific safeguards to address the identified potential
gaps in the legal framework. Government and Management agreed on the following
safeguard measures to address the identifiedpotential gaps, anticipate the possibility o f a
new law: and comply with applicable Bank policies. First, before Project Effectiveness,
the Supreme Court c f Honduras would issue a Regulatory Decree (Auto Acordado) au-
thor`;;;zzing a parcel-based property registry in Project areas.l3      Second, specific safeguards
                                                                                                  E

were incorporated into the Credit Agreement and other relevant Project documents to en-
sure that the rights o f indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples were protected. These in-
clude, among others:

           (i)      Section 3.08(b) o f the Credit Agreement obliges the Borrower to carry oct
                    an IPDP acceptab!e to the Bank, which would inter alia ensure: (a) that
                    Indigenous Peoples have adequate access to legal advice and training be-
                    fore decisions are made regarding lands which are in conflict: and (b) that
                    the decision-making mechanisms for conflict resolution on these lands are
                    transparent and include genuine representation of indigenous and Afro-
                    Hondurangroups;

           (ii)     Section 3.11 o f the Credit Agreement established that "no titling or physi-
                    cal demarcation o f lands adjacent to Ethnic Lands will take place unless
                    procedures that adequately protect the rights of indigenous and Afro-
                    Honduran peoples, duly consulted with affected parties in a manner satis-
                    factory to the Association [Bank], and set forth inthe OperationalManual,
                    have beenfollowed;" and

           (iii)    A trigger for PhaseI1ofthe APL was established, requiring "adoption of a
                    legal / regulatory franiework for Indigenous Peoples lands."

 And third, specific safeguards related to protected areas and natural habitats were in-
 cluded (sce paragraphs 76 to 84 below).

 56.       Consideringthe Project Development Objective, Management found the new
 Property Law acceptable, taking into account the above-mentioned safeguards. In
 the period between passage o f the Property Law by the Honduran Congress (June 2004)
 and Project Effectiveness (December 2004), Management assessed the Property Law and
 concluded that the Project's safeguardprovisions were not in conflict with the new law


 l3Since the Property Law approved i!!2004 (before Project Effectiveness) establishes a parcel-based prop-
 erty registry for the whole cou~try,Management decided that issuance of the Regulatory Decree by the
 Supreme Court was no loliger necessary and the Effectiveness Condition was deemed kifiiied.




                                                    16

                                                                                     h4anagr.ii1evlt Response


and the two could be harmonized. The process of harmonization will take time,
considering the need for broad and participatory consultations with Project stzkzholders.
The Project aims to accomplish this harmonizatioii through participatory mechanisms,
such as the MesG Regional and the community-levelMesas Locales, established precisely
for that purpose.

57.       Management cates that the IPDP (and the Project Operational Manual) have
not been updated because the Project's safeguards require comprehensive
consultations before land regularization methodologies are adopted. That is, the
Project's safeguards prevent Government from launching field activities until the Bank
issues its no-objection to the lmd regularization and conflict resoiution procedures, md
the revised prccedures wiI1 not be submitted to the Bad< until broad and meaningful
considtations have been czrried out.                                                                   i

Regulations on Land Regularization
58.       The Requesters raised concerns regarding the process of land regularization for
Indigenous Peoples. They claim specifically that:

          (i)       The IPDP does not take into account the existing legislationon Indigenous
                    Peoples and the legal procedure for collective titling;

          (ii)      No rules have been developed since the issuance o f the IPDP in
                    connection with the demarcation and delimitation of indigenous
                    cdmmunities' lands and that therefore, Indigenous Peoples should follow
                    the procedure contemplated in the existing Afectacidn Rules14addressing
                    their expansion requests andtheir claims to INA;
          (iii) There is confusion regarding coordination between INA 2nd the
                    Indigenous Affairs Unit contemplated inthe IPDF; and

          (iv)      Inany case, issuance ofregulationswould only contributt: to confusionre-
                     garding applicable rules.

59.       Government has not issued regulations to the Property Law related to
Indigenous Peoples' lands to date, as the regulations are currently under
consultation with stakeholders. Thus, they have not been incorporated into the IPDP or
the Project Operational Manual. The relationship between the IPDP and the existinglegal
framework i s addressedinparagraphs 51to 57 above.

60.       A draft document on the procedures for regularization of indigenous
 communities'         lands has been circulated to                  indigenous        communities          for
 c~nsultation.'~     Bank staff clarified the purpose o f this draft document to the Requesters
 at the September 21,2005 meeting inTegucigalpa (see Annexes 4.3 and 4.4). One o f the


 l4These ruies refer to the procedures used by the Agrarian Reform institute to distribute and titie lands for
 agrarian reform purposes.
 l5The draft document "Metodologin para Oeterminar y ?vfeu'lrlas Tiervas a Ser Titdadas a /as Comunida-
 des E`tnicas" is likewise mentioned in the Request.




                                                      17

ilondiias



tasks for the Mesa Regional i s precisely to discuss the document and make specific
recommendations to Govenment. The Project i s currently contracting a lawyer,
agreeable to the Mesa Regional, to assist the Mesa inreviewing the Property Law and the
draft regulations document, inresponseto specific recommendations made duriiig Project
preparation consultation events.

61.     Regarding the rekitionship between the Indigenous Affairs Ucit aid INA, see
Section 3.2 inAnnex 1below.

62.     Management notes a contradiction in the Request: on the one hand, the
Requesters complain about the lack o f regulations to the Property Law and, on the other,
they argue that issuance o f such regulatiom would contribute to confusion. Management
notes that the content o f national laws and regulations i s the responsibi1ity;of the
Go%rnmect of Honduras, and that the Government has pat inplace mechanisms, h c h as
the Project's consultation framework, for civil society to raise conceins on such
regulations.

63.     Management affirms that no activities related to the physical demarcation,
surveying, conflict resolution or titling of any lands in Garifuna regions of
Honduras have taken place under the Project to date. The only activities carried out
by the Project with Garifuna communities in these regions relate to dissemination o f
information and consultations as required by the Bank's OD 4.20. Management
understands that the ongoing consultations will result in land regularization procedures
that Government would subsequently approve as regulations to the Property Law. If the
proposed procedures are also consistent with the relevant Credit Agreement provisions
 and Bank safeguard policies, then Management will endorse the incorporation o f said
procedures into the IPDP and Project Operational Manual. These measures can only
 occur before land regularization activities on the ground affecting Indigenous Peoples
 commence (see paragraph 57 above).

 Arbitration versus Judicial Process
 64.    The Requesters question the inclusion of arbitration in the IPDP as a conflict
 resolution mechanism and the constitutionality of arbitration itself. Intheir view, the
 inclusion o f arbitration in the IPDP conflicts with Articles 110 and 111 of th.e 2004
 Property Law, which allow for ajudicial process; in short, the Requesters claim that the
 inclusion o f arbitration generates confusion among Project stakeholders.

 45.    The arbitration procedures in the IPDP were consistent with national law at
 the time of Project preparation.I6 Arbitration i s a non-judicial process by which two or
 more parties agree to allow an impartial third party to decide on the issue under dispute;
 the decision (award) becomes binding on the disputing parties and is final. On the other
 hand, under the 2004 Property Law, disputes may be resolved through a judicial process
 with the right to appeal to the Supreme Court (Article 111) (see P m e x 7). Management


 16Regardingthe constitutionality of arbitration inHonduras,Managementnotes that this would be an issue
 for Hondurancourts to decide ifand when apertinent case were broughtbefore them.




                                                     !8

                                                                          Management Iiesponse


wishes to clarify that :he IPDP was prepxed at a time when only the ConciliEtion and
Arbittation L a w (Xo. 161-2000) was ineffect, and not the Property Law.

66.     In Management's assesment the conciliation and arbitration methods of
conflict resolutionincludedin the IPDP are consistent with OD 4.20. These methods
provide affected groups with "the effective use o f the legal systellitz defend their rights,"
following a global trend o f incorporating new methods o f conflict resolution that are
considered "efficient,    effective and reliable" (Section I o f the Conciliation and
Arbitration Law) into national legal systems. These methods o f conflict resolution are
widely used in Latin America, including under other Bank-financed land administration
projects, some o f which include coxponents addressing Indigenous Peoples' landrights.

67. :.Government has established a participatory consultation framework (the
above-mentionedMesaRegional) to discuss and provideioputsintothe development
of land regularization procedures and ccjnflict resolution mechanisms under the
Project. Since changesto the iPDP and the Project Operational Manual are subject to the
Bank's no-objection, Management expects that these participatory consultations would
result in proposals to harmonize some o f the Project's features with the new Property
Law. Management also expects that the land regularizgtion activities on the ground
affecting Indigenous Peoples would commence only after the Bank issues its no-
objection, as required by Sections 3.04 (b) (ii),       3.08 (b), and 3.11 of the Credit
Agreement.

Legal Status and Access to Legal System by Garifuna Communities
68.      The Requesters contend that the preparation o f the IPDP violated Bank policy, as
it didnot take into account the "real ability of the indigenous and black peoples to obtain
access to the legal system and use it effectively to defend their rights". They argue that no
consideration was given to the circumstance that the impossibility for the Garifuna to
obtain justice in connection with their territorial claims through the Honduran legal
system has forced them to resort to international courts to address their concerns. As
such, Ofraneh presented a petition to the IACHR in October 2003, denouncing the
violation o f their territorial rights by the Government o f Honduras and asking for the
recognition o ftheir territorial claims.

69.      FindingGarifuna access to the Honduranlegalsystem to be limited,Project
design incorporated appropriate safeguard measures. In compliance with OD 4.20,
Management required that the Project's IPDP include specific provisions - including
budgetary allocations within the Project - for: (i)  capacity building and training for local
 co-munity leaders on nztional laws and regulations pertinent to the Project; and (ii)        a
program o ftraining and certification of conciliators and arbitrators (see IPDP, pages 13 to
 17).

 70.     Two o f the three communities indicated inthe Request as subject to claims before
the IACHR17(Cayos Cochinos and Triunfo de la Cruz) have never been considered for

 17See footnote 3 above.




                                              19

Honduras


physical deiiiarcation and titling under the Project. The third, the Punta Piedra commu-
nity, was initially on a list of potential communities -preparedby the Mesa Regional -to
be incll-rded in the Project; but given that some of its members may be opposed to the
Project, in September 2005, Management informed the previous Honduran Administra-
tion that its iiiclusion should be reconsidered after public discussion meetings at the Mesa
Regional 2nd community level (see Map 1). On Fekiiary 6,2006, Mmagement made the
same recommendation to the new I-londurzn Administration.

71.      Managementtakes no positionwith respect to the ongoing cases beorethe
IACHR. Management respects the rights of all Garifuna commuriiiies to pursue appro-
priate recourses at their disposal. Management ` ~ l i ~likel d point out again that no ac-
                                                           ~ to
tivities related to the physical demarcation, surveying, conflict resolution or titling o f any
lands in Garihiia regions o f Honduras have taken place under the Project to date. The
onl;*activities   carried out with Garifuna communities in these regions relate to dissemi-
                                                                                      F

naiicrn of information and consultations as requiredby the Bank's OD 4.20.

COLLECTIVE VERSUS INDIVIDUALTITLING

72.      Management has considered carefully the issue o f individual versus collective
titling. The Social Assessment addressedthis issue (see paragraph 26 above andpages 32
to 38 o f the Social Assessment) and Management analyzed the legal framework
concerning this issue in particular. The 2004 Property Law devotes an entire chapter to
the regularization o f property for indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples (see Annex 7).
In particular, Article 93 states, "the Property Institute shall follow the procedures
established in the Law to guarantee indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples the full
recognition o f their colrmunal property rights...through communal [emphasis added]
fee-simple titling (titulacidn en domini0 pleno)."

73.      Neither the Property Law nor the Project favors or encourages individual
titling in Garifuna communities. On the contrary, as a result of the legal analyses
carried out during Project preparation, Management concluded that - given the
importance o f this issue and the fact that Garifuna communities may be subject to
influences from outsider%.encouraging individual titling - a special safeguard provision
was necessary for the Project. Specifically, Sections 3.08(b) and 3.11 o f the Credit
Agreement provide for the establishment of procedures that adequately protect the rights
o f Garifuna communities, inchding their right to choose a tenure regime. Provided
communities make this choice inthe context o f a participatory and informed consultation
framework, the Project's safeguard provisions are adequateto comply with OD 4.20.

74.      Management endorses the Government's position to respect the decisions
made by the Mesa Regional and individual communities regarding their preerred
land tenure regime. The minutes o f the March 2005 keeting establishing the Mesa
Regional explicitly state as one o f its objectives "to demarcate the areas titled io Garifuna
communities and proceed with its communal [emphasis added] regularization respecting
the titie as a private communal whole without fragmentation in individual parcels, since
Garifuna lands are its patrimony. There will not be m y cadastral surveying o f [individual
parcels, it is understooq for at least 15 to 20 years in the Garifuna community" (see



                                               23

                                                                      Mainagement Respome



Annex 2,12). Under the Project, community-level consultation bcards (Mesas Locales)
are also being established and Management understands that ultimately individual
communities will decide byhether to partkipate in Praject activities and on their land
tenure preferences.


PROTECTEDAREAS AND GARhUNA TERRITORIAL CLAIMS

75.     Regarding the potential overlap o f protected areas with Garifuna land claims, the
Requesters claim that the Project:

               Does not contemplate the co-management by communities o f protected
               areas;
               Has already given away protected areas to NGOs which do not shake the
                Garifuna "cosmovisidn;"
               I s not demarcating water limits;
                Lacks mitigating measures to offset the presence o f Government
                institutions in protected areas management in favor o f the permanent
                presence o f community menbers. Inaddition, the Requesters mention two
                specific examples: the proposed Sierra Rio Tiilto Forest Reserve, and the
                Punta Izopo National Park (see Map 1); and
                Has not taken into account the importance o f natural habitats to Garifina
                communities.
76.     The Project was designated as a category "B" Project for the purposes of OP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment). Therefore, Management required the Government to
prepare an EA as part o f project preparation. The EA identified the Project's potential
"risks and impacts regarding the natural environment       ...and specific social impacts
(involuntary resettlement, Indigenous Peoples, and cultural property)." Based on the EA,
Management concluded that additional safeguard policies were triggered, namely, OP
4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), and OPN 11.03 (Cultural
Property) and additional compliance measures were needed to mitigate the identified
potential impacts.           ..
                            1




 77.    The Project's Process Framework ensures that protected area demarcation
will proeeed only if and when local communities agree (see page 6, first paragraph of
 Process Framework). Among the potential impacts identifiedin the EA was the possible
 overlap between existing communities (both indigenous and non-indigenous) and
 protected areas. As Project demarcation o f protected areas could lead to the restriction o f
 access to resources within those areas for neighboring communities, Government
 prepared and disclosed a Process Framework inaccordance with OP 4.12.

 78,    The Process Framework and Environmslrtal Management Plan (EMP)
 include provisions for co-managementof protected areas by agencies, NGOs, and
 local communities (see page 7, last paragraph of Process Framework). Likewise, the
 Process Framework has strict provisions for the recognition and demarcation o f land
 areas in favor of indigenous communities where overlaps exist between territorial claims


                                             i i

Honduras


and protected areas. Moreover, to snsure the implementation o f the Process Framework,
Management and Government incorporcted legal covenants into the Credit Agreement tc
this effect (see Sections 3.04 (a) (iii) 3.08 (d) o f the Credit Agreement).
                                        and

79.      Management notes that the Project has not "delivered" protected areas to
NGOs. To c!arify, tclbles 6 through 11 of the EA include a ccmprehensive inveiitory of
existing and proposed protected zeas in six departments o f Honduras, in compliance
with OP 4.04, as   ~ 7 e l l
                          as factual information regarding the orgmizations involved in the
management o f those areas. This inno way ccnstittttes an act o f "establishing in advance
the delivery of territory to outsiders," as the Request claims. Existing protected areas are
those created by Government prior to the Project. Proposed protected areas are those
under consideration by Government and/or other organizations for inclusion in the
Honduran Nztional Protected Areas System (SlDJAPH). These latter areas are no being
procosed nor created by the Project. The listing o f organizations involved in the   \
management o f those areas in Project documents should not be interpreted as a Project
proposal or endorsement of those organizations; rather, the lis? reflects a relationship
between Government andthose organizations working ina given protected area.

80.      Management understands that the need and procedures fclr demarcation o f water
limits o f protected areas will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, depending on the
specific circumstances o f the area inquestion.

81.      Manageffient insisted on the inclusion of specific measures to address
potential conflicts between the OD 4.20 and OP 4.04. In order to ensure compliance
with both OP 4.04, which protects natural habitats; and OD 4.20, which protects
Indigenous Peoples, the Project includes the allowing measures: (i>      the restriction that
only legally established protected areas (with a Decree) would be eligible for demarcation
under the Project; (ii)    no project field activities would take place in or near proposed
protected areas (Section 3.10 o f the Credit Agreement); (iii)no titling or physical
demarcation on lands adjacent to Ethnic Lands would take place unless procedures that
adequately protect the interests o f Indigenous Peoples.. .have been followed (Section 3.11
 o f the Credit Agreement).

 82.     In Management's view, co-management and participatory demarcation of
 protected areas enhance the involvement of indigenous communities vis-a-vis
 government agencies (or other entities) in the management of protected areas.
 Xfmagement recognized the Project's potential impact on cormnunities living in or near
 protected areas stemming from the loss o f access to resources. For this reason, the Project
 includes a Process Framework setting forth the mechanisms for mitigating this potential
 impact, incompliance with OP 4.12.

 83.     Regarding the specific areas mentioned by the Requesters, Management wishes
 to clarify that under the Project, no activities will take place within or near Sierra
 KOTinto Forest Reserve,asitisaproposedprotectedareamdtherefore excluded from
 the Project per Section 3.10 of the Credit A4greement.Regardingthe overlap between the
 Triunfo de la Cruz conmunity land claims 2nd the Punta Izopo National Park,
 Management understands that Punta izopo National Park has been included in the



                                                22

preliminary list of protected areas to be included in the Project (see Annex 2.12).
Management notes that Section 3.11 o f the Credit Agreement affords protection to
affected communities, such as Triunfo de la Cruz, indicating tht "no titling or physical
demarcatior, o f lands adjacefit to Ethnic Lands will take place miess procedtires that
adequately protect the rights of indigenous md Afro-Honduran peoples, duly consulted
with  affected parties in a manner satisfzctory to the Association [Bank],... have been
followed."

84.     Finally, regarding the iniportance of natural habitats to Garifuna communities,
Management recognized that potentially the Praject could negatively affect
important natura! habitats, including areas recognized as protected by traditional
local communities, if said areas were titled erroneously. Consequently, Management
decided that OP 4.04 and QFN 11.03 were triggered and the Project EM$ and
Process Framework include specific activities to mitigate these impacts. These
include: (i) exclusion o f all proposed protected areas from demarcation activities as
            the
described in paragraph 81 above (per Section 3.10 of the Credit Agreement); and (ii) the
inclusion o f chance find procedures in the Process Framework (per Section 3.03 of the
Credit Agreement).

MANAGEMENT      RESPONSIVENESS      TO REQUESTERS'   CONCERNS: AUGUST2005 TO
PRESENT

85.     The detailed complaint submitted to the Bank by the Requesters in August
2005 (see Requesters' Annex 2) focused largely on specific provisions of the
Property Law. For instance, the Requesters claim that "the Property Law 82-2004 goes
against international law standards and violates the Baii's OP 4.10" (page 1, Annex 2 o f
Request). Given that the contents o f national laws are the responsibility o f the
Goverrment o f Honduras, Management sought clarifications fiom the Requesters in
order to ascertain which Froject-specific concerns required Management attention.
Management invited the Requesters to a meeting inTegucigalpa on September 21, 2005,
where the Requesters confirmed that their main concern was the implementation o f the
Property Law (see Annex 4.1). The Project-specific concerns which the Requesters raised
for Management's consideyation were: (i)    more respect and transparency inthe Project's
consultation process; (ii)allowing communities themselves to decide whether to
participate in the Project; a i d (iii)
                                      requesting a meeting with Government to review the
procedures G f the Project's consultative framework (theMesa Regiortal).

86,     In Management`s view, broad and open dialogue with a11 Garifuna
stakeholders is entirely appropriate and indeed essential to address complex land
issues effectively. The signed minutes o f the September 2005 meeting in Tegucigalpa
indicate an agreement for the Bank to sponsor a follow-up meeting with Government 3
well as [emphasis added] other Garifma representatives (see Annex 4.3). Mamgement
confirmed this srgreement ina letter sent to Ofraneh on October 20, 2005 (see Amex 4.4).
Management disagrees with the Requesters' assertion that the presence of other Garifma
representatives constitutes an attempt to disrupt the dialogue aimed at addressing their
concerns. On the contrary, given that oiie o f the Project-specific cmcei-ns expressed hy
the Requesters in the September 2005 meeting with Bank staff was the need to "review


                                              23

the participation mechanisms o f the hfesa Regiorzd and the procedures for selecting
beneficiary communities," broad and open dialogue i s appropriate. Government has also
expressed its preference for supporting the ongoing consultation framework (the Mesa
Regional) that includes all interested Garifclna stakehoiders; the Mesa Regional has also
manifested its right to be included in all discussions related tc its operational modalities
(see Amex 2.21). Management disagrees with the Requesters' characterization o f other
Garifuna stakeholders, including commwity leaders, PatTonato leaders, church leaders,
and representatives of other Garifuna grassroots organizations participting in the Mesa
Regional, as "outsiders" (page 12, paragraph 3 of Request) or as "Garifuna clowns"
(Annex 1 to Request, page 2, paragraph 2'1. In contrast, showing an attitude towards
honesr dialogue, the Mesa Regional continues to invite the Requesters to pziiicipate in
meaningful dialogue about the Project; Management and Government support this
approach.                                                                           f

87.     Management took action to address the Project-specificeoncerns expressed
by the Requestersand notified Ofraneh of these promptly.These include: (i>         inform-
ing Government o f their concerns, and Government (as implementer o f the Project) ex-
pressed its willingness to meet with Ofi-aneh to discuss participation mechanisms at the
Mesa Regionnl; (ii> Management and Government agreed with the proposal that commu-
nities themselves decide whether to participate inthe Project; and (iii) Management clari-
fied to the Requesters that no surveying activities financed under the PATH in Garifuna
communities had occurred to date. In particular, Management clarified to Ofraneh that
the incident mentioned to Bank staff on September 21, 2005 regarding the Punta Piedra
community was not related to the Project (see Annex 4.4).

88.     Managementonce more emphasizes the voluntary nature of communitypar-
ticipation in the Project. Only those communities willing to participate will have their
lands demarcated and titled under the Project. Therefore, individual communities can
avoid the potential harm alleged by the Requesters by choosing not to participate in the
Project.

89.     Following the September 2005 meeting, Eank staff traveled to Honduras in
November 2005 to meet with Government officials, the Mesa Regional and
representatives o f Ofraneh. On November 4, 2005, Ofraneh representatives refused to
meet Bank staff and Government officials in the presence o f the Mesa Regional; this
contradicted the agreement made in the September 2005 meeting and reflected in the
minutes of that meeting. In a statement issued by the Mesa Regional on November 4,
2005, its members reiterated their invitation to the Requesters to join the Mesa Regional
and thus fulfill a commitment the Requesters had made with the Mesa on June 9, 2005
(see Annexes 2.20 and 2.21).

90.      Managementhas consistently maintainedits commitmentto meaningfulcon-
sultations, broad participation and open dialogue with all Garifuna stakeholders.
After the November 2005 mission, Management met internally to consider the impiica-
tions o f multiple Garifuna stakeholders with diverging views o f the Project, and the posi-
tion o f the Government of Honduras with respect to the rcle of the Mesa Regional as the
 appropriate consultation framework for the Project (see Annex 5). Consequently, on No-

                                                                      ManagentenrResponse


vember 18, 2005, Management sent a letter to the Requesters offering once again to
sponsor a meeting betweenthe Requesters, Government, other Garifuna representatives,
and the Bark The ietter reiterated that it is Banlk policy to keep open channels o f com-
munication with civil society, both in our offices in Tegucigalpa and Washington, to
which the Requesters have access to address their concerns about the consultation
mechanisms established for the Prcject or other matters (see Annex 4.9). To date, the Re-
questers have not replied to this invitation.



                         V. MANAGEMENT'SRESPONSE


prov3ed inAnnex I.
91. - T'ne Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed responses, are
                                                                                       t


92.     Management maintains that the Project has caused no harm given that no
activities related to the physical demarcation, surveying, conflict resolution or titling
of any lands ir, Garifuna regions of Honduras have taken place under the Project.
The only activities carried out with Garifuna communities inthese regions relate to dis-
semination of information and consultations as required by the Bank's OD 4.20. Further,
Mmagement affirms that the safeguards included in the Project (e.g., Sections 3.08(b)
and 3.11 of the Credit Agreement, the consultation framework, land regularization and
titling procedures that comply with OD 4.20) are currently working and provide more
protection against potential atomization than the existing legal and institutional frame-
work. Management supports the principle that individual communities should decide
which type of tenure regime they prefer. If communities make this decision as a result o f
a participatory and informed consultation fiamework, as in the case o f PATH, the Pro-
ject's safeguard provisions are adequate to comply with OD 4.20.

93.      Management notes that community participation in the Project is voluntary,
and individual communities are free to choose whether or not to participate in the
Project.

94.      Management notes that, beyond matters related to the Project, the Request
raises issues about the Honduran Property Law, and to a lesser extent, the
Conciliation and Arbitration Law. In this regard, the Requesters conclude that the
solution to their problein involves actions outside the scope of the Project (('measures to
resolve our problem addressed at the national instances (lobbying and political advocacy
work to achieve the an~endmeEtof the Property Law)," (page 13, first paragraph o f
Request).

 95.     Management notes that inclwion of a comprehensive inventory o f existing and
proposed protected areas included in the EA - as required under OD 4.04 - as well as
 factual information regarding the organizations involved in the management o f those
 areas, in no way constitutes an act o f "establishing inadvance the delivery o f territory to
 outsiders."




                                              25

96.       In Management's view, appropriate consultations have taken place during
Project preparation and imp!ementation. Given the diversity o f opinions withiii the
Garifuna community, Management agrees with Government that a non-exclusionary          COII-
cultation framework i s needed ta address these viemls and give voice to all interested
Garifuna stakeholders. In Management`s view, the Mesa Regional pmvides an effective,
ongoing instrument for meaningful consultations, in compliance with QP 4.01 and 03
4.20.

97.       Xanageniem notes that, given the broad support by a significant portion o f
Garifuna stakehclders, suspension o f Project acthities in these areas could be detrimental
to the interests o f these stakehclders, who have invested their time and aspirations inthe
Government's efforts through the PATH lo address some o f their long-standing mdtiple
land tenure conflicts. In Mafiagemefit's view, by addressing some o f the parti `pating
Garhna communities' land claims, the Project will place the communities in a s     Pronger
and more informedposition to defend their landrights.

98.       Regarding the participation inthe Project of the communities cited inthe Request
(Le.. Sangrelaya, Guadalupe, San Antonio, LimSn, Punta Piedra), Management notes that
it has already: (i)   informed the previous Administration in Honduras of the statements
made by members o f these communities; and (ii)recommended to the new
Administration in Honduras that it organize public discussion meetings (at the Mesa
Regional and community levels) to explain once again the Project's objectives and
operational modalities, and that Ofraneh be invitedto these meetings to present its views.
This way, the communities themselves will be able to make an inforined decision as to
whether to participate inthe Project or not. iwanagement will monitor these consultations
closely inthe course o f Project supervision.

99.       Similarly, Management has again notified Government o f the importance of
properly labeling Project documents as either official and approved, or discussion drafts,
and o f the need to enhance the Project's public dissemination activities, making
information more readily accessible to Project beneficiaries and other interested
stakeholders.

100.      In Management'$" view, the Bank has followed the policies and procedures
applicable to the matters raised by the Request, and has taken appropriate actions to
address all of the Project-specific concerns raised by the Requesters intheir August 2005
letter to the Bank and at the September 21, 2005 meeting. The Requesters have not
shown that specific actions directly attributable to the Project, or the action or
inaction of BaEk staff, in violation of Bank policies, have, or threatened to have,
caused them material harm."

 101.     Management reaffirms its commitment to meaningful consultations, broad
participation and open dial6gue that allows all interested parties to express their
views about the Project, and to ensure compliance with all Bank policies. Manage-


 ** See footnote3 above.




                                              26

                                                                      Mmagemen: Respome


ment remains committed to meet with the GovermneEt of Hondurss, the ldesa Regioiial
as well as other Gaifuna groups, and other civil society groups to ensure that the con-
cerns o f all indigeilous and Afro-Honduran peoples are respecred under the PATH. Man-
agement reiterates that it i s Bank policy to keep open channels o f cornmication with
civil society, both in our offices inTegucigalpa and Washington, to which the Requesters
have access tci address their concerns cbout the consultation mechaDisms established fcr
the Project or other matters.




                                              27


                                                                                         ManzgenrentResponse




in connection with indigenous Pespies, Management rotes that the Rzquesters claim vio!ation of OMS 2.34
(:982), 09 4.20 ( I S 9 i ) and OPBF 4.10 (2005). Mal-iagement's response, however, is framed under the
appiicable poiicy on lnaigenous Peopies (OD 4.20 issued in 1991), rather .thanOMS 2.34 .=irOPBP 4.10. The
Project had its PCD Review Meeting on .April 9, 2003 and the PAD Decision Meeting on December 8, 2003.
OlfiS 2.34 (February 1982) was replaced by OD 4.20 in September 17, 1591. OPi5P 4.10 applies to projects for
*whichir PCN Review takes place on or aftei July 2005.
Thz Requesters' statements are addressed in the oider presented in the Reqnest for Inspection, and the
apprcpiiate pages and paragraphs are citel:. Given the flew of the Reqnest, those claims with a stronger
emphasis on the Honduran legal framework,' cor;sulbtions during Project preparation and after Board approva!,
regulations plating fc: land regularization, and pending litigation before the IACHR are grouped u der OD 4.20;
those with a stronger emphasis 05 protected areas are presented under OPBP 4.C: and OPiBP j.04. Finally, a
brief section is included an the 'florid Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information.
Nuies:
 "Adjustable Program Lending (APL)" provides phased support for long-termdeveiopment programs. It involves a series sf
!aans that build on the iessons learned front the previous loan(s) in the series. An APL involves agreement on: (i) the
phased, long-term development program supported by the loan; (ii) sector policies relevant to the phase being supported;
and (iii) priorities for sector investments and recurrent expenditures. Triggers define when to move to the next phase.
Subsequent loans in the series are phasea on the bask of saiisfactory progress in meeting the defined milestones,
benchmarksor triggers.
Under OP 4.12, a "Process Framework" is prepared by Government when Bank-supportedprojects may cause restrictions
in access to naturai resourcesin iegally-designatedparks and protectedareas.The purpose of the Process Frameworkis to
establish a process by which members of potentially affected communities participatein :he design of project components,
determination of measures necessary to achievs reseit!ernent poiicy objectives, and implementation and monitoring of
re!evant projectactivities.


                      Claitn:ksue                                                       Response     -
                                                       OPBP
                                                        0%




fim.                                                  4 2s
~                                                     Paras      Eeingaware of conce:ns by some Garifuna3i-oupsabout
 On October 18, 2003, two moqths beforethe above-     ?Sati   the draft Law, the Bank welcomed Governments effcitc -
 mentioned ijieetjng, 9 consultationworkshap was       14Cl   t h u g   ciivitiesfinanced under the P M R project -to en-
         San Juan, Tela on the draft of what P-vould          able these groups to maketheir concerns kriownto the ap-
        e Decree 84 -2000 PropertyLaw.At khat
 time, the representatives of the commmities came
 out vocally against the issuance of seid Law fer
 ~ a s o n sthat ace made dear by a readingof the
 attached documents that were drafted in the ConsLif-

                                                                                            cess Framewrk were dis-
 experts and institutio




                                                                                            ed effective on December2,




                                                             31

  (i) Section 3 O8tb)of tne Credit Pgreemen! obliges the
      Bcrrower to carry out ar: iPDP acccptabie ic! the
      SanK which Lmiild l:?:eraiia enscire' (a)!hiIqdige-
      nous Peopies have adeqiiaie access to !qai advce
      and trainli.,g before decisions ale made regarding
      lands whlch are rn conflict, and (bf that the decision-
      making mechanisms for conrlici resolution on these
      iands ai?irsnspsrent and irlciude genuine repiesew
      , A 4 of indigenousana Afio-Honkxan groups;
      Section 3.1Iof the Credit .Agreementestablished
      that "no titling or physicai dema
      cent to Ethnic Landswil! take p
      dures that adequa!eiy protect the rights of indigenous
      and Afro-iionduran peoples, du!y co ultedwith af-
             patties in a iniinner satlsfacto~tothe Asso-
              Bank], and set forth inthe Operational M2n-
              e been followed," and
             er for Phase II of the APL was established, re-
                                    / regiiiatory framework far


                                     related io protected areas.
                                     cluded (see paragraphs




that purpose.
             of Lipdatingthe lPDP is addressed in Section

                        Ciaimilssue                                 @I?'                                   Response
                                                                   9PlBP

lapresel?atives :fiat had been inhtsc!'0 !% rneet16?                        2-'
                                                                            tctio"  -riee:,ng (see ,M?er 2 11) On March 15-17, 2005 1'2
were not giver?eupianatoiy rnxem!s At ?ha::#"'e                             Gartfma persons, inclcding rspresentativesfrom 25
Mr Angel Castro, invited as Presdin! cf the Pafro-                          Garifunacommuc:!:es, municipaland Patromtcj akthorities,
cato (icundation) of the Garifunacomzun!!y of Trr-                          gatheied in Tiu:i113, Colonto create the ;&sa Regonal de
unfo de la Cruz refused to sign a dcciment with                             Pegu!anzsaon y Reso;ucibo de Co              cmos The Mesa Re-
vmch the government officials sough! co~s~11sus               OQ            gonal eslabliSkeda gcfdfrigprincipleof non-exclusionto
the aDplicztionof said plam Inthe Ga::funa c m -                            guaran!ee that ail iqterestedpartieshave the nghtto paw!-
muniiies.                                                                   pateand express cptnions andviews about the Project (see
The Presidentof the Patmnafo of TrluTiode la                                Annex 2 I2j
Cruz, realirlng the dangers for the SJWFI!         of his                       Management notes :hat there is broadsupport for !he Pro-
peopleandthe damages that the appfica!loil of the                           ject amng variois Garifuna stakehoidersas shown by !he
arrangementswnternpla?eci;a the Ban!, s Projed                              variocs minutes of rneebngsand statements made by the
              ,lefIthe meeting and decded to iefra:::                       M e s ~Regional (PPP Annexss 2.14 to 2 17 an132 19to 2 21)
             ng furths: Keetings on h e same sun-                           Cornmupity representativesat the Mesa Regional,not Gov-
ject. He was support.ed in his decision bjj all th?                         ernment, selected :he eightcommunitiesas well as !he al-
me3bet-sof the community he representsand,Iater,                            ternates
by all the representativesof seveial cmvwnlties                                 OnApril 20, 2095. in the community of Sangrelaya,the
[Citation: Paee 5. oaras. 1& '21                                            Mess Regianal issced a statementmanifestingGarifuna
                                                                            support for the Project and called on all Garifunacomrnuni-
                                                                            ties and organizations to participatein this process (see An-
                                                                            nex2 14)
                                                                                As detai!ed in parag;raph45 above, Managementtakes PO
                                                                             positionregarding !he insiitu            disputewithin Ofraneh
                                                                                Management and Govern                respectthe right of corn-
                                                                             munitiesto opt out of project activities Managementiqdi-
                                                                             catesthat no activitiesrelatedto the physical demarcation,
                                                                             surveying, or ktling of any !ands'inGarifunaTegions of Hon-
                                                                             duras havetaken place to date. The only activitiescarried
                                                                             out with Garifuiia communitiesin these regions relateto
                                                                             disseminationcf infoimation and consultationsas roquiied
                                                                             by the Bank's OD 4 20
                                                                                 See Section 5 oelow

 2 2 Manaaemenf respons:vef?essio "c?is;'e s
 from Auocst 2005 to dale
 Befcre reachingthe decisionof P:EC.Ci>t.iIG :!xRc-                153           A c$ronslogy of mnrnunications bstween the f\eqLie&, s
 quest, Ofranehand the affeCkd CO~"ilUnlt:6!S?           G x 3     4 20       arid Management02litached (seeAnnex 4) Paragraphs 55
 series of steps designed towards a constrx!ii,e
 dialoguewi!h the institutionsInKdiJedI? the ;X,e21                14a  '    :o 90 above detailthe actionswhich Managementhas ta",si>

                                                                    14;]     10 respcyd to the concerns \toiced by the Reques!e*s              3

 [ .j Foiiowinga series of iiicbtli\gS                                        s w e s of meeti-ys .jarir?gbackto September1205
 &nm bztween Cfraneh and !!-e f                                                  Ti.-
                                                                                   I   $ - I ^
                                                                                       Lr;iail~dCCi;,Dla,,ii subriiitted to the i3anhbb tL5
 from August to November2005 a                                                   I 'G                                                         g+
                                                                              cjczesteis in 4ugiisf 2005 (see Requesters'Annex 2) fcclrsei!
 were set] for the t h : e party ineettqy i/i?k,Gfrawh
 the World Bank and a Gownmen; osieaatioii                                    largely on specific prowtonsof the PiopeCy Law GIVWit?::
                                                        t i i 1.2,            the contents of Patloiial jaws zre the respowbility of the
 Ceiba on Ncvernber4, 2005           -C;'.VEIF,    cr h o                     G2ierrement of kxdlrras,Management sohght cla-ifica!iz z
 Lernbei 4, 2005 at the place selectx! to :art-) 5 ..I
 the meeting,there appeared rep:eser3!ives d '55                              hoi1the Requesters in order to asceertain which Prqect-

 IVesa Regional (Regional Board) a          -                                 spscific cancerns qui1'ed Managemefitat!en+ion The Re
                                                                                                    I
                                             I
 ,s no: recognized by Ofraneh and !he                                         qucsters cmf rTc6.o rnst their rnai:: concern was ihe , ( i y ~ c .

 $e and is alien to the institutions,'RE Sovewren:                             m n k ~ t i cf~the %;ceny Law (see h n e x 4 1) Thp P;=,--&
                                                                                             c

 and the Worid Bank,
 :GS communicating                                                             msnr s cmsmera: 27 $;*ere

 sen! a fax to the Ban                                                           e  fx'wc,rpzpec' sp'yl 'va-sparensy      r rfh? p r y x ! 5x-e..
  51exiiy aiid disagresmectwith !he          w :-ID d B - ~ - J F                   ia113r:
      "szn ::-e ;s:,tb?':                                                               - -
                I         -A x , C i      :..- ? .                                d l   ". 6,2c:s:.-
                                                                                              '2                                          ,h21!---.-.
                                                                                                    4-      ..-
                                                                                                            - Plh?rf?i.i-,j  t:        3
                                                                                                                                       - .


                                                                          3 3

iining that they iackd serlocisi;sss Sasides the                 pzrt!cipate117the PiqFct, aqd
prese?ce of obisidei's,   t l rad lo ze corstrcied as a?         Requesting i!rnee?!ngw4i Gcvernnent to revtawthe
attempi io aiieithe s>iutlon procedure on tbe part ef            procedms 3f rhe ProjjeCt`S consli!t&ve frarliework itlia
the agents ;i;d;ea      H=wever Gfrsrieh engressed                Ucsa Peghi>d).
Its willmgness to haL.:e a f[.iiiher veeting before pre-
sennnr; the inspebim request.The Sarirc, thioiigh              In Management'sview, broad and open diaiogue with dl
     Ben,ar;,,n, in a letter dated November 18, 20C5,       Gaiifuna stakeholders is entirfly appropriate a d indeed
answered tnat the diaiogue on the developrrieri! of         essentialto addless complex !an3 issueseffectively. The
tne Project needed to include the representatives of        signed minutes o f t ~ eSeptember 2035 rneeting in Teguci-
the Mesa Regsnai. Mrs Fviiitarv ?Iiranda, of O b -          galpa indicate an agreement for the Bank io sponsor a fol-
neh's executive board, in a conversation heid with          low-up meeting wjth Government as well as [emphasis
Mr MuAoz on November 4 bnderitnedthe iliegaiity             added] other Garifuria represent
of the set iip of said Board, vvhich has been created       agreement was confirmed by Fvla          e n in a letter sent to
.n spite of rhe disagreement of the com                     Ofraneh on October 20,2005 is
\vas not eleded by the communiIies, is                      disagrees with the Requesiers' assertion th `the presence
                                                            of other Gzrifl;na representatives mnstltute'3m aT:expt to
                                                            disrdpt the dialogue aimed ai: addressing their concerns On
                                                            the contrary, given that one of the Pioject-specifisconcerns
box of the Mesa Regronel cannot be covsidered               expressec!by the Requesters in the September 2005 meei-
                                                            '
other Gariiuna representatives, as they are de-                 was the need to "isview the participation mechanisms of
scribed by Mr BenjaminMcDonald in his ietter of                 Mesa Regionai and the procedures for seiecting benefi-
Wovember 18 2005.                                           ciary communities," broad and open dialogue is appropriate.
                                                            Government nas also expressed its preference for support-
Therefore the Ofraneh, rejecting the represeiiiative-       ing the ongoing consuitation framework (the Mesa Regional?
riess of an tnstitution Involved inthe dialogue with        that includes all interested Garifuna stakeholders. Msnage-
         witneni and with the Bank, considering That        men! disagrees ii/lth the Requesteis' characterization of
         d done what was possible to find a solution                                  ers, including community leaders,
70 the probiems resulting from the tioiiduras Land                                    h leaders, and representatives of
Management Project, made the decision to send
this request.
Considering what has been :ndicaied above !ye may




 or rolu:ion. to channei the titling process in accos-


                                                                    e    iiiforming Government0: their concenx, folofiow-
    cade The execution of the PATH eii6angers the                        irig which Gwernment (as implemer-&r of the
 very surv~valof the                                                     Project) expressed its willingness to meet with
 inof agree to soiutio

     On Novenber 4. 22.35, OfraReh represmatrm rsflrsed
 to m e t Sank staff and Government officials in the presence
 of the .Mesa Regiorlsi This conrrzdcted the agreement made
 in !he Septernbe: 2005 meeting w d reflectad in the minutes
 of that mes?ing.in a statement issued by the Mesa Regional
  on Novsrnber 4, 2009, its members reiterated their invitatimi
 to the Requesters to join the k&sa fieginnal and thus fctfill a
  commitniei?tthe Requeste-s had made with the Mesa on
  June 9, 2305 (seeAnnexes 2.20 and 2 21).
      fdanzgemeni has consistentiy maintained its commitment
 to meaningful consuitaiions, broad parr
        gue with aii Garifuna stakeholders
       5 mission, Management met internsiiy to cbnsider the
       licationsof multipie Garifurrastakeholders with divergmg
          of the Project, and the position of the Gcvernment of
         uras with respect tc :he role of the Mesa ,Regionalas
  thi: appropriate consultation framework for the Project (see
  Annex 5). Consequently, on idovember 18,2005, Manage-
  ment sent a ietter to the Requesters offering once again tc
  sponsor a meeting between the Requesters, Government,
  other Garifuna representatives, arid the Bank. The ietter

                         civil society, both in our offices in iegb-


                        ishedfDr the Fioject or other matters




2,j

[ . j Furthermore, ?heBank has v!o!atedrhe FTGVi-                 Seciioil 1.2 abovs discusses :he legal framewoik at the
sions of OMS 2.34 paragraDh 5 and OD 4 20 92%-           [OD   time cf IPDP preparxicn. It alsc describes the Froject-
glaph 4 5 a) and c) and paragraph 9 of OD                4 20
                                                         paras specificsafegu?rd.sto address potential gaps in tine iegal
                        at the Bank expressed thii it    75a & framework.
                       istance for any development       15c]
                        entails the invasion G? safs-             Government has not issued reguiations to the Property
guarded terriiories or lands (OMS 2.34; paragrriph 5
OD 4.20 psragraph 15a) and c!
 [...]The Indigenos Peoples Development Plan j
no way takes into account the existing legis!atier,
                      2nd the legal procedures %r                                         to 67 above. A draft docum
                      ous Development Plan pro-
vides :hat the legs1framework coi-iteKplates the
issuance of rules lo develop :he !egai frmework for
the piztection of Indigenous Peo?les, additionally to
hstrucfions for the aelimitation and demarcation of            mendationsto Government.
ancesfrz! land holdings (page 3 of ihe IPBP).                     At the time the iFDP was prepared Government intended
 Inthis respectwe clerify that never, since the re-            to operate an IndigenousAffairs Unit ai the Governance and
                                                               Justice Secretariat to oversee the impiementation of Project
      ection with the demarcation ana deiimtation ef           activities re!atedto Indigenous Peoples' lands. However,




                     procedure of Indigenous Peo-
                    e do not understat3d how this




                                Lirit. After z etain was
                                V<heiethat document


                     Cia:-;'
                          :llrllSSC!P                     95:                            Response
                                                         OP'EI;
4. Legal status and access to fega! system by
Garifum c-ammilnities
[.. j an !he other hand, we underlineThai in drafrir.g            Fming Garifuna zccess to the Hmdii8i-i legal system to
                                                         [OD    be Iin%?ed,Project design incorporated appiopnate safe-
the PrOJeCt'SIPDP, w stcount has beer! taken             4,231  guard measures in       pltmce with OD 4 20 Managemen?
tne rs8i ah!bfy of ths indlge,3GllSand black peopres            requlred:hat the Pr     'S iPDF include specific provisions  -
13obtain access to the legal system and use it ef-              inclbdtngbudgetary al!ocationswithin the Project - for (i)
fectively to cefend their rights !do mention is made            capacity bdding and training fw local community leaders on
of any study estabiishing the lwei of iccess of the             national laws and reguiations periiiient io the Project; and (ii)
Garifunz peopk tc the doG7es:ic legal system 5e-                a program of trainiqg and certification of conciliitois and
sides, no consideration was given to the circum-                arbitrators ises IFDP,pages 13 to 37).
stance that the irn~,ossibiliiyfor the Garifuna of ob-
tainmg justice in mr!neciion with their teiritorial               Twcl of the three communities indicated in :he Request as


                                   . In October 2003,
                                   ii7inated in Sa!-nbo
                                   g ?heGarifuna peo-
                                   the Inter-American




        vs. the Scvernrnent of Honduras; I119103
         a Commutiity of Cayos Cochinos \is. the
         rnent of Honduras;906/03 Garifuna Cow-
         of Triunfo ae la Cruz vs the Government of


mission on Human Rights focusing on the admissi-
bility of petition number 9Cij

                                                                            ow
                                                                            OP!BP                            Response

OP 4.19 sia:es that "the Vi's1-ldBack pbys special                                Garifuna ammuni?ies in the Departmentsof AtiBniidz
a!:.sh!ion ?othe social assessine?: ac3 tc :i?s nia-                              (Sambo Creek and TornahP) and Gracias a Dios (8atalla).
utes and the result of the p r c ~ i ~fiia~and in-
                                                 ,   ;                            The Social Assess~eniincludedthe participationof munici-
formed consi;!!ations wtn '15saffecied !r,drg~n~us                                pal authorities.fatfcna:~leaders (ctescribed ir, ncre detail in
communitias,IS a basis TO detmiine if said sspport                                paragisph 311, cmrnunity leaders,indiiJiduak, ana civil so-
exists. The Bank does Gat prsue !he prcmsing of                                   ciety organizations,representingthe broad SPPCti;i;i?of
ihe projectif it is unable to de?ermii;e the existence                            Garifuna stakeholders.
of said support."                                                                   There is a diversity of opinions among ihe various
fCitaiion: Paae 5. oaras. 4 - 5j                                                  Garifuna stakehoiders regardingthe role of the Project h
                                                                                  aciriressing their land ciaims. 1::particular, Government2nd
                                                                                  the Mesa ReGbnarhaveextendedopen iwitations IO all
                   -                                                              Garifunacommunitiesand organizationsto participateinthe
                                                                                  consuiiationfr&nvvork sponsoredby the Projfct; Some
                                                                                  Garifuna.goups are active!y paiticipating in the Project, oth-
                                                                                  ers hsve participatedsporadicaiiy,while stXothers have
                                                                                  chosen not tG beinvolved.
                                                                                     Manapmeninotes.that there is considerableGariiuna
                                                                                  supportforthe Project,as shown by the va,rious minuies of
                                                                                  meetingsand.statementsmade by ihe:Mesa Regional(see
                                                                                  Annexes 2;14:0.2.17 and 2.19 to 2.21). Comkunity repre-
                                                                                  sentatives at the Mesa Regional, not Government,selected
                                                                                  the eight communities as we!!as the alternates.

 6.: A!!eged damage by the Project to the
 Garifuna people                                                                                           rn that the Project harmsthem in
 The damage suifered by the Garifuna peo;le is
:materializedinthecurrentandFotential damage
 entailed by the PATHto pursue the processof vi?-
 dication and recognitionof !he teiritory sf the
 Garifuna people,or in other terms :he ciains relat.
 ing to their territorialrignts.The fur?hel-po!er,t!al
 damsse is rnsterialized ?I the serio:Is risk cf at3:?!-                                eg              mmunities
 zaticn of the community'sCOlleci!Y? title in favc;. cif                                                 the 1D.Ci-r
 inuividualtit!es, conirary lo jhe choice of a p r z f w d
 system of iandtenure ma6e by the w!wle of ike
 Gaiitma people.
 We consider that the acttan and f?kr? !o ac: that
 resu!tfrom all of the above is the Bank's Ccspcnsi5i:-
 ity, the causality link is basedoi! !lie circun?stapce
 that h ~the WB not imple8nentsdsaid pian 1hc7
                d
 communi:ies would not s~ffer2nd.---
 PGSEd i G :he abuvr, GIGI ,.,v.:=u.irrt.,OyGa a
                     -,,=----,' .,..:         wokki iwt bi. ax-
                                        - < -     - - .-._
                                                                ~       ' 2
                                                           i \ J . J t i
 continue purscingtheir claim proces
 icitaiion. Paae 9, Dam. 1 &          a
 I...] alloftheco!?:r:!:r?itm %;le c!?i!neci
        P.!most
 respect fo: their :errito:ie! righis. [ ..] A ~ a x p l ecF
 tne expansionrequestsSkd by it?:B c=r                                es
  settled h i the Zone of Ir:ai?ashG;~s!I.&! :hey re-.
  quested 27,690 Ilectaies and only 8.588 hectares
  viere titled. The /ns:ifl;tz IVacfwa:r?grc?ri'cdecia.-sd
  that not ti!led [to the co8vvl-nitiesjii7iis exilkdins s!j
  0:fQkreany hypo!hesis of ;.egd2:irzt;2!i ,.~;;t':o      :i?p
  !ands ozccpled kji fcre;Sv.e:s snc' r e lacis.         ~ 3 -
  ?:;sed in the environnien?i!r s w e I                   .

  :-,c.:ed v:i!h the r:amFj   ; ) p 8 ~ i \ d 7.:;

The protected Aiea is indka:ed in the Etiviron-          rovidedcommunitiesmake this shoice in the cmiext of a
nental Pzanualof the Honduras Land Managenrent         partiapatoiy an:! infamed constikition framwmrk, the Pio-
Pioject (p~ae25 iabie 7 iiii~~be;  4) 2s. Fmst Re-     ject s safeguard prcvls;or;s are aCi9ijuateto comply wrth 8ZE
serve Sieiia R ~ Tint=, such zone would comprise
                   O                                   4 20
      res of 69,487hectares a m wodd hsve the
      uiional support of the environmenta! NGC)           Manage          1dorses the Government's position to re-
                                                       spect the d         made by :he Mesa Regkytal anci indibid-
peop!e and alien to their interests and world view.    ual cornmu          gaiding thaii preferred iand tenure re-
Besides such area has not jet been !egally iecog-      griiie. The minutes of the March 2305 meeting establishing
rlized as a Protected Zone, no Gecree has beer;        tne Mesa Regions; ex;lic;;iy    state as one of its objectives "io
issaed in that sense.                                  demarcate the areas titled to Garifuna communities and Dro-
                                                       ceed with its comrwnal [emphasis added] regularization
This circumstance underlines the vic!a!!on of its      respectingthe title as a private ccn;munal whole wi:hout
operational policies by the Bar& operatives;any        fragmentationirl in6ivicjbsiparcels, since Garifuna iands are
titling projectthat contemplates :he deiiverj ~f       its parrirnony.There ~ u i \not be any cadastra! surveymg of
                                                                                   i
zones beingclztrred by the Garifma peop!e (since       [individualpaice!s. it is understood] for at k+st 15to 20
                                                               in the Garifma community (See Gnnex 2.12). tinder
                                                                                           "

              Cteimllssue              001                             Response
                                       GPBP

                                            Park has been included in the preliminary list of protected
                                            areas to be included ii! jh~_Project (see Annex 2.12). tulan-
                                            agement notes that Section 3.11of the Credit Agreemen!
                                            affox3s p:stection io affected c~mtnunl?ie~,   such as iriunfo
                                            de la Cruz. indicating :ha1 "no titling c.! physical actnarcation
                                            of lands adjacevt to Ethnic Lands wiii take p!zce unless po-
                                            cedilres that saeql;atei*j protect the rights of indigenous and
                                            Afro-Hcnduisn peoples, duly cvnsu%edwith affect& parks
                                            !na manner satisfactoiy to :he Association [Sank],.. have
                                            bPe? kilowed."
                                               Finally, regarclingthe impoftanci. of natural i?abita!s lo




E. EnvironmentalAssessment OPlBP 4.01
   Natural Habitats QPIBP 4.04
                   -        -




                                                                                          sures that proteded
                                                                                          d when iocal com-



                                                The Process Fram
                                             Pian (EMP) include p
                                             tected areas by agencies,
                                             (see page 7, last paragr
                                             wise, the Process


                                             claims an6 pr~is-cfed   areas.

                                                              Finally,the Project's EA irdudes sunir-ary tables .;.f data
                                                          on ali existing and pqosed protected areas in the %part-
                                                          men?ssiAtkntida and Coi6i7, inciud!ng the institutionjs) in-
                                                          volbe: !n the management oi' those ar68s at (he time the EA
                                                          WBS prepared (Tabies 6-11           agement iwshes to clarify
                                                          that the vMe all potected
                                                          within the ProjeCiarea are h e d in ?heEA - 3s required by
                                                                                              (existing and proposed)

                                                          OP 4,04 -the Prolectwill cary out act&iies only in pro-
                                                          tected areas which have been legally established and se-
                                                          iecied through a participatory process in the zourse of Pro-
                                                          ject impiernsntation

[ .] The 3ema:caiiori of the water lip ts is not being        As noted above, io date nc sctivities - aside from cciiisill-
carried out                                                tations  -reiated to the demarcation of protected aiees 0:
1C:ts;ion Pass 8. para 41                                  indigenoijs community lancis have taken pI cs Where sup-
                                                           po,.ied by the consultation prosess, pzr!icipatory demarca-
                                                                                                        % .
                                                           tion activi!ies wcdd take place in accordance with the melh-
                                                           odoizgy sei fort!? ir, pages6 io 8 of the Frocess Framework
                                                              Management iiiiderstwds that the need and proceouies
                                                           for demarcation cf wa!er limits  cif protected areas will be
                                                           assessedon a case-by-case basis. aepending on the ape-
                                                           cific circtimstances of ?he2 ~ in~westion
                                                                                                  4

[...! Finally, we underiine that the PATH has not             The importance of criticel natural habiiats (both in terms of
t e k q into account the imptancE! of tbe r,a!uisi        their bicdiversi!y value as we!l as their cukura! inpoeance)
l;abitE!s and their inter-rela!ion v.4h the Garifuna      was recognized by Management (see pages 14-15 and 89-
cornrriirnitiesthat 3ccupy seid habitats.                  81 of the PAD) and as such the Credit Agreement includes
jCitation, Paoe ti. para. ?I                               provisions (see Sections 3.09, 3.70 and 3.11) to prevent the
                                                           eiiOnPOUS demarcation cr titling of those lands.These legal
                                                           covenants, as they relate to naturai habitats. are operationab
                                                           ized iri pages E to 9 of the Process Frameivork and pages 5P
                                                           tc 62 of the EMP approved fzr the Project.
                                                              Building upon the commEments indicated above, tiie
                                                           Mesa Regional was estab!ishedin March 2005; its mandate
                                                           includes the issue of proiected areas ana land claims of
                                                           neighboring Garifuna cornrwnities, zs well tis other issues
                                                           to "prevent a negarive impact on the Garifiina peopie." (see
                                                           Annex 2.12).
                                                              Managemer,: maintains rhat no activiiies related to :be
                                           ..'             physical demarcstion, surveying, ior,flid resolution fir ii!Iii;g
                                                           of any lands in Gaiifuna regions of t-londcras have taken
                                                           p!ace under the Project. T5e only sctivities carried out with
                                                           Garifuna cornnui?i!i3s i:?hese regisis reMe b aicsemir:3-
                                                           tioq of infcmnatir\qand ;,onst i ! ~ ~ +as ~ n c
                                                                                                    ~ y5  I.+     the
                                                            Eank's CD 4.20.

.,
 I'
  _..          ,
               ...




         43


                                                           f




Chronology of Eventsfrom Jainuil~y2083 to November 2005




            .
             1'




                          45


Januarr!;-FeSrttary, 2003 .4 serks of c~nsultetiene\'ents are orgnnized to consdt ciy-~ilsociety
                          on the design of a project io imegrate the Nation21Registrj: and
                          Cadastral Syster.!i (SIWREC).Ofraneh participates in the even: held in
                          San Pedro Sula on Jxtuary 30,ZCl03. (Annex 2.2)
                          Ofraneh and other organizations from civi! society meet with PA.4R.s
                          staff to discuss :tie consultation process for the draft c;fProperty Law.
                          An ad hoc working goup is created to receive inputs from civi!
                          socieiy on the law and revise the draft. (Annex 2.3)
October 8,2oc)3
       -                  -4consuitation workshop is organized to revise the drdt of the.       t
                          Property Law based on the progressmade by the x! hoc group.
                          Ofraneh participates in ths event. (Annex 2.4)
Sctober 25-26. 21303      PAAR sponsors a consuitaticn workshoporganized by Ofraneh in
                          San Juan Tela, Atlantida to discussthe draft of the Property Law.
                          (For minutes i7f tnis event: please refer 10 the attachments in Annex I1
                           G f the Re,quest)
November 13,2003           Representatives from Ofraneh meet with member of National
                           Congress to present the resu1:s of the workshop held in San Juan Te!a..
                           (A.nnex 2.6)
November 26,2003           Thz firs roundof consultations for the Indigenor;s Peoples
                           Development Plan (PDF)and the Environmental Assessment (EA) is
                           held in Tegucigalpa. Participants request additional time to analyze
                           the documents. Representatives from Ofraneh participate in the event.
                           (Annex 2.7)
December 1.2003            The second round of consultation for the IFDPand EA are held in
                           Tegucigalpa. Pmicipants endorsed the clocunrents. Representatives
                           from Ofraneh participate in the event. (Annex 2.5)
Jan1;al-y 13, 2005         PATH staff meets with the vice-president of Ofraneh in LaCeiba to
                           disseminate the Project. (Annex 2.9)
Jnnuary 28,2005            PATHstaff meets with representatives from Odecci and Ofraneh
                           (Garjfuna organizations) to'invite them to participats in the  ~ ~ G C of S S
                                                                                                   ~
                           planging and dissemination of the Project. (Annex 2. IO)
February 12,20135          A s a foliow-up to the activities undenaken in January, PATH staff
                           and the Govemrner?tof CoIon invite key stakeholders finciuding
                           Ofr'raneh) to beccme part of a working group session to be held in
                           T-
                            i rujiiio, Colon. OR Febmary 24 with the objective of organizingthe
                           Inter-instirutiond Commissionfor the reguiarizarion and titling of
                           Afro-Honduran Lands in Arlantida :and Colon.
                           PATH staff meets with representatives from Ofraneh io invite themto
                           participate in the working group session io be held in Tmjillo. PATH
                           staff repom that MS.Gregoria Fiores from Bfrmeh decided to no
                           longer pm.icipace in the pIanning and dissemimtion events for the
                           Project because other Garifma stakeholderswere invoived.
                           At the meetinginTmjil'io, a provisional Inter-institutional
                           Commissiorr is creage.d with the objective of organizing the eveat
                            where the 8 co:nmuniiies and i 2 proreced area i o participate     ZR
                                                                                               . w*e
                           PATHp:oj~t are       EObe selected. The provisional commission decides
                            tr?.continue with the p



                                                  j;

                    or"-
                      rranef;a!id ;3dec0. (Ai:ner: 1.I1)
                    A .~,t\shopis held
                       v,q3"..             iilSai;taFe,Coion. \vi$ rspizsfniativesfrom
                    GarifEna:on?munities (includingscrne members f r m OFWJkFH),
                    where the Alcsa Regional 6.. Reg:dnri;acion    J Rrsoiirciot.~  de
                    CGfif7icio.Y i s createdar.d 8 communities and 13 protectedareas fer
                    repiariz&n        are selected. OFK2hTH is inciudzdas part of the
                    Mesa Regions!. ( A n r , 2.12)
                                                ~              .  ,
                    World Bank Represenrativttin %:mhmS         meets with rnembeis of the
                    Mesa Regimal. (Annex 2.17)
                    Ofraneh issues a public s:aremerit against the PA'I'k! project.'The
                    statement characterizes the other Garifma stakeholderspanicipating
                    in the Project as "clowns". (Annex 2.'r 3)
April 23, 2005      Menibers of the Mesa Regienal meet in Sqyelaya, Colon in
                    resportseto Ofraneh's statement. The Me.ya signs rniniites stating their-
                    support fw :he Project and caliingon at! Garifuiias organizationstoE       -
                   join forces to strengthen the framework sponsoredby the Project 2s
                    well as inviticg them to pariicipzk OR it.(Annex 2.13)                      . .
                    The Mesa Regionai includesthe cornmmity of Cocalito in the list oE
                    se!ected conmunities to participate in the Project uponreques of the
                    community's representatives. (Annex 2.14)
                    Mesas Locales are created in S a m Fe and Siin Antonio {Depmment
                    of Colbn).
                    Representatives from OFRANEHmeet with the Mesa Regional in
                    Tmjillo, Colon, and agree to send two represemtivesfrom their
                    organizationto be members of the Mesa. i.4nnex 2.15)
June 9,2005         Three working committeesare orgacizedto a st the Mesa in the
                    areas of training, monitoring. and dissemination to the commilnities.
                    Mesas Locales EF~:createdin Sangrelaya, Gocalito, and Guadatupe
                    (Department of Colbn).(Annex2.16)
                    OfFaneh submits 2 letter to the World Bank against the Project'.
                    (Piease refer to Annex     nof  the Request)
September 22,2005   Bank staff meets wilh membersof the Mesii Regiem! in L a Ceiba,
                    Arianrida. At the meeting,it as agreed that the Prclject wiHI financed
                    a lawyer to assist the comrnr;r?itiesin the i-eguPllurrizatisn process.
                    (Annex 2.19)
Koeernber 4,2005    Replpentatives from Bfraneh are invited to ma with Governmezt
                                                                     ,et
                    officiais, Bank staff, and other Garifmarepresentatives in the context
                    of the Adesa Reyionaf in La Ceiba. .4tiantida, to discuss their concern
                    with the implementationof the project.The represr;:mtives from
                     %ZtAhTRsiiow iotiremeeting,but rehsetoparticipate. (Annex
                     2.20)
                    The Mesa Regimd' issues a special ~ t n u t erecpestii:g the Woild
                     Bank not to meet with the represen:atives f i ~ m  Qfrzneh outside the
                     ranisworkof the Mesa, and invitingOfraneh to appoint their two
                     representativesto the Mesa     3s they had agreed to on June 9, 2085.
                     (Annex 2.2 i)
November i I,3005    Bank letterPO h3esa RegionalGw&ma., as a fo'oliaw-upto Wcvember
                     4,2Oi15 meeting.(Annex2.22)

                                                           Mariageriietit Respotise




                                ANNEX 2.7

                                                       ...



First Round of Consultationfor the IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlanand
                        EnvironmentalAssessment


                            November 26.2003


                UNOFFICIAL ENGLISH TRANSLATION




                                     75


    AIDE hlEMOiRE OF THE IST         CGSFERESCETO REF'IEW' THE INDIGElVOUS
DEVELOPMENTPLANAND THE ENVIRONMENTANALYSIS OF THE HONDUE-AS
                     L4ND ADhlINISTRATIONPROGRAMPATH)

November 26,2003
Hotel Plaza de,lGeneral
2:OO to 6:OO pin

Documents:

    - Indigenousdevelopmentplan
    - Environmentalanalysis

Panicipants:

    -   OPRANEH:Jarson Salvin Benedit, Teresa Reyes
    -   MASTA: .4urelio Ramos Allen, Edy McNab
    - MASTA'Rayaka: RobertoEsteban
    -   ODECO:Yimene Calderbn, Zulma Valencia; Karen Vaigas
    --  LAKIATARA: Edgrtrdo Benitez
        FETRIPH: Aifonso L6pez;EnriqueCarrasco, Marlon Moises Santos
    --  SGYJ: Rodolfo Alvarez
        MOPAWI: Sim6n Greham, Adalbertc Padilla
    -   PROLANSATE:Santiago Flores. Dennis Sierra
    - Fundaci6nVIDA:OrlandoOrtiz
    -   PATH: Henry Merriam; Edgardo Derbes. Diacuy Mesquita: Roman Alyarez, Erasmo
        Padilla, Joaquin Hernandez. Nancy Barahona, Etna Pinel, Zuleyma Zablah.

Development:

The participants consider that there has not been sufficient time from when the document wa\
received and the date of the workshop for an in-depth analysis ot the tachs. accordingly. the)
have requested more time to anaiyze the Indrgenous DevelopmentPlan The workshop tooh place
as follows.

1.  There was discussionwith regardto the 5 days of analysis that were requestedand granted to
    hold a new workshop. which would be defini:ive. setting the date for December 2, 2003.
2. The terms were established under which the IndigenousPlan would be discussed.
3. The document w?s delivered to all those whc had not downloaded it in their email.
4. Among the various points discussed were organiza:ional topics and the,participantsexpressed
    concerns with regard to the participation :hat indigenous peoples would have during the
    implementationof the indigenous plan; accordingly, the PATH agreed ihzt the participatory
    processes would

Honduras                                                                                         I




    be a topic to be acalyzedduring the developmen! of the Second Workshop in the document of
    the Indigenouspian.

Enclosures:
List of attendees duly signed
List of Delivery of per-diems




                                               78

                                                        Management Respotise




                             ANNEX 2.8




Second Roundof Consultationorthe IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlanand
                       Environmental Assessment



                           December2.2003


               UNOFFICIAL ENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                  79


                                                                               itiunagernerit Response



          AIDE ItIEhIOIRE REMiNDER OF THE 2''" ANALYSIS WORKSHOP OFTHE
    INDIGEKOUS DE`C`ELOPhIENTPLANAND ENYIRONILIENTAL ANALYSIS OF THE
                      HONDURASLANDADhiINISTRATIONPROGRAhi

   December2,2003
   Hotel Plazadel General

   Analysis documents:

        --  Indigenous Development Plan
            Environmental Analysis

   Attendees:

            NABLPLA: Arty Brooks
            FETRIXY: Selvin Bladimir Rodriguez,ManiaMagdalenaPe`rez.
           ECOMAC; Luis Evelyn.Lauro Rodn'guez
            lMAST.4: Virginia Mendoza, OrbelinaOrellana
            MASTNRAYAKA: Donald0Allen, Whayting Wrod
            AHJASA: Omar Nuiiez.Oscar Armando Lazo
            WORLD BASK: MBrquezMartinez
           FUDNAPIB: Aidn M.Archaga
           LAKIATARA: Edgardo Benitez
           FETRIPH: Alfonso L6pez. Marlos RosarioDuane, EnriqueCarrasco
           OPRANAH: Jarson Salvin Benedit, Enrique Carrasco
           PRESIDENCY: Lina Martinez
           SGYJ: Rodolfo .4lvarez
           PATH: Henry Merriam; Edgardo Derhes, Diacuy Mesquita; Roman Alvarez. Erasmo
           Padilla,Joaquin Hernandez, Nancy Barahona, EtnaPinel, Zuleyma&blah.

   IndigenousDevelopmentPlan

   Cornrnents

   OFRANEH

   They consider that there has not been enough :ime for an in-depth analysis with regard to the
   tasks; work should be done together.


,  Rodolfo Alvarez: He clarified that the meeting was to get a first glimpse of the studies. He
   acknowledged that there is sti!l a lot to do. There was the anticipation ihat people would get a
   preliminary look at the document, if the goals were worth observations; if the procedures were
   adequate, reminding that a prqject is beingini!iated.




                                                                                                          I




                                                   S i

   Honduras



   ODECO

   Sulma Valencia and Carmen Vargas stated that these were oniy preiiminary observations.


    MASTA

    They stated that "the document has included people's needs, but it has not sufficiently included
    their concerns. There are real probiems that must be resolved and it would be great to have dates.
    to follow up with discussion of effective ways to resolve the problems".


    FETRIPH

    They stated "There should be a good start opening up to the communities, mainly with respect to
    the land. I t should be done jointly and with a consensus. This la* must be made known to the
    public-at-large". The) asked if PATH has the possibility G f financing the a\s.areness cainpaign.
    "We are giving time to define. when we can start with this proposal".

    Rodolfo Alvarez

    Heclarified that it does not involve a law


    MASTA

   There are points of relevance. "Iagree with the plan for acknowledging an overview of the
   communities (communal property). There are also indigenous people who are unable to be
   recognized as individual owners (case of the Ladinos)".

   They asked how the Ladino colonos are going to be treated. What was going to be done? "If we
   are not clear on th-is point. there is no way to resolvethe issue".
   We are not clear if the solutions adopted in these parts are valid for the rest".

   They suggested inviting the delegates from the Gem.an Cooperation and COHDEFOR with
. .regard to the Platan0 river reserve.


   FETRIPH (PETCH)

   "We lived [here] before :he settlers (coioiios),we have always been marginaiized".
   They stated that the decree law of the Plhtana River is very new and the settlers are already
   exploiting the media. "in the settlements they have gone past our rights".
   The decree law does not rnake it possible to grant property rights within the buffer zone "We
   want to hoid on to what belongs to us".

   Mina Honda Tribe

   They commented that they agreed to give individlial titles io tanners on land Delotiging to the
   lribe.

Candelaria Tribe

"The government has committed monumental mistakes. There is a reason for iniirnational
c h ims" .
The government bought land in oUi aricastral areas and hallded it over to peasantsdisplaced of the
Cajon".
The government blackmailed our tribes, a lot of people have been imprisoned and are dead, we
are concerned by these new laws". "DIVIDING THE LANDIS DIVIDING OUR PEOPLE".


PETCH

They spoke of cases of conflict resoli!t:on (Conflict Resolution Committee).


TAHUACA (EdpardoBenitez)                                                   ....

"International funds, there is another type of interest. It has a relationship with the PueblaPanama
Plan. Projects that at the end of 15 years of the IPU'A-FHIS-UNDPhave left more problems [than
before]".

"It is really this proposal, something that will truly benefit us: this i s a law, it i s a project: the
federations shculd bring their technicians and politicians; they should bring their specialized
resources. There is always a card up their sleeve. the commissions don't work. the indigenous
peopies are always responsible; though you don't always have to see it from my negative
standpoint, we should give space to the federations so they can bring their best human resources".
Don Edgardo Benitez, stated having problems with the federation with regard to poor investment
of funds (but he is a technician), but the Tahuaca have an excellent organization like the Lencas.


ODECO

Karen said that only actions are indicated in the document with regard to the land and stated that
to formulate a plan. the participation of the communities i s necessary.

"The plan itself has good things, what concernb us is the fact of the indigenous and Afro-
Honduran' participation, how they are going to intervene. The term of the capital markets
concerns us and the role of the World Bank. The communities are maiiire to interpret qnd in all
the poor peoples, there is a good deal of allusion to the information. And we are concernedby the
land tenure regimes".

He also stated that the Afro-Honduran terms should be homogenized (non-black).

Moreover. he stated that the positive and negative impacts should be evaluated. "We are
concerned by the qualification by the statgs of occupancy certificates; who will be the owners of
the land; Idon't be!ieve in the c&tificaies, they cre a trap of the State".

"Protected Areas. for what or for whom. Reguializ;j:ion of rights. What righ~:`People want
land".

They stated that they did not apee uith'theterm "Ethnic Groups", it should be "Ethnic Entities".

Honduras




Part I1

Environmental Analysis Document

OFRANEH

"Idon't see aplanfor developingnaturalresources,it isnecessaryto knowwhat it isbefore
beginning".

CONCLUSIONS:

    1. The participatory methodology and the political willingness tu disseminate the project
       and its specialized studies (environmental and indigenous) were well perceived by the
       participants.
   2. The content of the.studies, include great changes in policies and procedures. which
       requires that the represeniatives of the federations discuss them thoroughly at the
       grassroots level and time for understanding it better. This issue will be address during
       project implementation,through component I,which includes institutional strengthening,
       training, and localdissemination,and the generation of policiesand norms.
   3. There is good disposition to initiate the project and implement the proposal. providing
       confidence and access to the processeswill improve this disposition.
   4. The representatives agreed to consult with their grassroots to appoint members to the
       indigenousnational forum (mesa nacional iridigenn)

                                                               Managemen: Response




                                ANNEX 2.9




Aide Memoire of Meetifig Between the Vice-president of Ofraneh and PATH Staff



                              January 13,2005


                 UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                      85

                                                                               Mmagemetit Response




                 LANDADMINISTPATIONPROGRAMOF HONDURAS
                                             (PATH)

                COMMUNITYPARTICIPATIONAND ETHNICAFFAIRS.
                                      AYUDA MEMORIA
                           SOCIALIZATION VISIT TO OFRAF&H


LaCeiba, February 13,2005

PARTICPANTS
Meetingheldin the office of the HonduranBiack FraeernaiOrganization(BFRANEIEHjwith Mr.
Alfredo L6pez in his capacity as Vice-president; Ms.Nidia Arguljo and Jorge Cacho consultants
of the Honduras Land Administration Program(PATH).
                                                                         .,..
DEVELOPMEW.
Mr.Alfredo L6pez startedthe conversation onthe proposal of San Juan, Tela; regardingthe
PropertyLaw, he said it did not fulfill the expectations of the,people, and pointedto some articles
that where the acknowledgement of ownership by third parties is unclear; there are 2 articles that
wony him and some actions have already been taken. The organizationis generally accusedof
issuingcomplaints or of other things.

He statedthat there are many limitations in the property law and there are articles that are fata!

Alfredo LCIpez asked that agreementswhich have been set down must be fulfilled to see if there is
a willingness to do things.

Regardingour request to make ajoint effort, he stated that things go back while which results in
                                                                             i!
people not beingtrustedand now we want things to look like we're best friends?A dialog should
be started so we can do away with the mistrust and dc! somethingthat wil! generate trust.

                                                                 Mariagement Respouse




                                          -?<

                                 ANNEX 2.11
                                                             ..



Invitation and minutesof working group session to integrate the provisionalInter-
Institutional Commissionfor the demarcationand titling of Garifuna communities




                              February 24,2005


                  UNOFFICIAL ENGLISHTMNSLATIOK


                                                                               Management Response




-  Secretariatof State in the Ministry of Governanceand Justice
   Republicof Honduras, Central America


                                                                                                      i

   Invitation




   You are hereby invitedto a working group meeting in order to set up the Inter-institutional
   Commission for thz Regularizationand Titling of Land in the Afro-Hbndurancommunities in the
   departments of Col6n and Atlantida and to discuss matters relating to the management of
   opportunities for poverty reduction.The meeting will be attended by the technical staff of the
   PATH project that is executed by the Ministry of Govenance and Justicg.

   Date:   Thursday, February 24,2005
   Time: 2:OO p.m.
   Place: Office of the Governor, Department of Colon



   Sincerelyyours,


   (Signed) Juan Gomez MelCndez
   Governor, Departmentof Col6n




                                                 97

Horidiiras



Minutesof the meeting

The foilowing representatives of the HondurariLand Administration Program and community
leaders representingthe Afro-Honduranpeople met in the halls of the Office of the Governor at
2:OO p.m.on Thursday, February 242LW5: community of Cristalesand Rio Xegro, members of
the cornrnunity of Rio Esteban,Centro Independientepara el Desapllode Honduias(CTDH),
 municipality of Santa Fe, Organizaci6n de DesarolloEtnicoComunitx-io (ODECOj, hernational
Committee for the Development of Peoples(CISP), Pop01Nah Turn, Office of the Governorof
Col6n. Centrode Promoci6nde       13Salud y Asistencia Familiar (CEPROSAF),Inter-nunicipal
Technical Unit, Solidarity international. Mancomunmidadde Municipios Ganfunas de Honduras
 (M.4MUGAH).San AlonsoTechnical Center. In introducingthe Honduran LandAdministration
 Program, the technical staff discussedthe scope and objectivesof the programfor the
 regularizationof land ownership in the Garifunaand Miskito communitiesunder the property
 law, for which a provisional committee was formed to plan the fiist Workshop of Dissemination
 and Selection of Afro-Honduran Communities.to be held from 15 to 17 March.
                                                                      . ..,
The following committee members were chosen:

Omar Loredo                       Community of Cristalesand Rio Negro
Nancy Figueroa                    ODECO
Juan Alberto Castillo             Uti SiIhlAMUGAH
ThelmaGotay                       CEPROSAF
Juana Olivia Gonzilez             Office of the Mayor of Santa Fe
Evangelista Garcia                Community of Rio Esteban
NelsonLenin Gonzilez              CIDH
Juan Gomez                        Office of the Governor

Wilfred0 Cacho of the Associationof Professionals of Sangrelaya (.APROSA) and Teofilo Iacayo      _-

of the Iseri Lidawamari Movementwill alsojoin. upon recommendationby the Assembly.

The committee will be responsible for preparingthe logistic aspects of the first Assembly
(invitations, preparationof an agenda, budget).The Assembly will expand and approve the
membership of the committeeat that time.

There being no further business, the meetingwas adjournedat 4: 12 p.m. Signed and approved in
the city of Trujillo.

(Signed)
Omar Loredo                              Nancy Figueroa
Juan Albeno Casti!lo                     Thelma Gotay
Juana Olivia Gonzalez                    Evange1ista Garcia
Nelson Lenin Gonzilez                    Juan G6mez Melhdez




                                                98

OfficeOP the Governor
Departmentof Colon
Trujillo

List of participants

Event            Venue: Office of the Governor, Trujillo Chair: M'r. Juan G6mez




(See origitiaffor names, etc.)




                                                                                   I




                                              99

Hondiiras




Community Participationand ethnic affairs

Date: February 24               Place: Tmjillo, C o b           Time: 2:OO p.m.

No.              Full name     1Comrnmity         Organization
                                                  andfor
                                                  institution;
                                                  Fax andor e-  +
                                                                7
                                                  mail




                                                                     ...



HONDURANLANDADMINISTRATIONPROGR4M (PA4TH)

Community participationand ethnic affairs

Date: February 24               Place: Trujillo, C o b          Time: 2:00 p.m.

                                                  Organization    Title
                                                  ancl'or
=fq=                                               institution;
                                                   Fax andor e-
                                                   mail

                                                                 I




(See origiiialfor names m d other irlfnrmatioti. )

                                                                    Management Response




                                    ANNEX 2.12


                                                               ." '




Minutesof the Creation of theMesa Regional de Regularizacidn y Resolucidn de Conjlictos
de Atkintidu y Coldn and PreliminarySelection of 8 Communitiesand 12 ProtectedAreas



                                 March 15-17.2005


                      UNOFFICIAL ENGLISH TRANSLATION




                                         101


                                                                              . .
                                   Aide hIemoire

We, Leaders of the Garifun:: communities,municipal authorities,
Governor, representativesof the Association of Mun~cipalitiesof Honduras [AMHON],
representatives of hlL4MUGA,the Garifma Catholic Pastoral Diocese Commission.
representatives of OFRANEH and of the Community DevelopmentOrganization of
Honduras [ODECO!. meeting at the Guaymuras
Training Center Lvithinthe framework of the Workshop on the Selection of Afro-
HonduranCommunitiesand ProtectedAreas organized by the Land Administration
Program of Honduras with the participationof representatives of the following
communities:

                       I,hlunicipalDistrictofEsparta
       1 . Cayo Venado
       2. NuevoGo
                                                             ...
11. Municipal District of Santa Fe                         .


       3. Santa Fe
       4. Guadalupe
       5. San Antonio

               111. Municipa! Districtof Juan FranciscoBulnes
       6. L a Fe
       7. Buena Vista
       8. Batalla

                       IV. Municipal District of Limon
       9. El Limon
        IO. Valleciro

V. Municipal District of Santa Rosa de Aguan
        I1. SantaRosadeApan

VI. Municipal District of lriona
        12. Iriona VEJO
        13. Punta Piedra
        14. Sangrelaya
        15. Cocalito

VII. Municipal District of Balfate
        16. Rio Esteban

VIII. Municipal District of Trujillo
        17. Rio Negro
        18. Cristales

IX. Municipal District of Tela
        19.Triunfo de la Cmz
       70. La Ensenada
       21. Miami
       22. Rio Tinto



                                      IO?

Honduras



       X.   Municipal District of La Ceiba
               23. Corozal
               24. LaCeiba

       XI.   Municipal District of La Masica
              25. La Masica                                                                          I




       Following a presentation and discussion about the processesof landregularizationand
       Titling, an agreernent was reached to leave the title simply as Workshop Meeting.
       Furthermore,emphasis was-piacedon replarization and titling with the component of
       production, which peimits the economic strengthening of the communities subject to the
       process of regularization.Later. agreement was reached to support the organizing
       committee of the event in order to initiate the process in coordinationwith PATH,
       and with the represestation of the communitiesbenefitingfrom the process.

       Finally. the working offices were integrated to select the 8 communities to be regularized
       by the Land Administration Program of Honduras and which are listed hereunder.

       /signatures illegible]

       SAN ANTONIO MLWICIPAL DISTRICT OF SANTA E-COLON

       PUNTA PIEDRA MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF IRIONA COLON

       CRISTALES Y RIO NEGROhlUNICIPAL DISTRICT OFTRUJILLO COLON

       LIMON MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF LIMON-COLON

       SANGRELAYA MUNICIPAL DISTRICTOF IRIONA COLON

       RIOTINT0 MUNICIPAL DISTRICT OFTEL-ATLANTIDA

       SANTA FEMUNICIPAL DISTRICT OF SANTA E-COLON

                                                                            Mniiagenienf Response

                                                                                          . ,
    GUADALUPEILIUNICLPALDISTRICT OF SANTA ET-COLON

    The session ended at 7:10prnon March 15,2005.


    THE FOLLOWINGAUTHORITIES AND LEADERS ATTENDING THE
    WORKSHOP SIGNEDTHIS DOCUMENT

    [Most of the handbt*ritienetrrries appearirig here arid017tl:e,follobiing trvopages are
    illegible]

NAME               1IVILLAGE                  1 PosITIoh-                1 SIGNATURE
                                              I

Honduras


                 DEFICIENCIESOF IRREMEDIABLEPROCEDURES

       Any action or meetingofthe mesa regional that is carried out with the objective o f
       exercisingits own functionswithout formally guaranteeingthe right of participation or
       expressionof its members, will be invalid andtherefore without effect.

    OBJECTIVESAND MANDATESOF THE PLENARYINRELATIONTO THE
       MESA REGIONAL AND PATH

                                                                         Page 3 of 9




                                            106

                                      AIDE iCIErvZOrRE
         ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MESA RECIOIVAL OF REGULARIZATION AND
      CONFLICT RESOLUTIONAND SELECTIONOF 12 PROTECTED AREAS

        We, leadersof the Gan'funa communities, municipal authorities, Governor,
representatives of the Associationof Municipalities of Honduws[AMHON], representatives of
MAMUGA. the Gan'funa Catholic Pastora! Diocese Commission,' representativesof OFRANEH
and of the Community Development Orgafiizationof Honduras [ODECO], meetingat the
Guaymuras Center within the framework of the Workshop on the Selectionof Afro-Honduran
Communitiesand Protected Areas organized by the Land Administration Program of I-Ionduras
PATHwith the participationof represenrativesof the following communities:

                                I.MunicipalDistrictofEsparia
                1. Cayo Venado
                2. Nuevo Go
                                                                   ...1
        11. Municipal District of Santa Fe
                3. Santa Fe
                4. Guadalupe
                5. San Antonio

                       111. Municipal District ofJuan Francisco Bulnes
                6. LaFe
                7. Buena Vista
                8. Batalla

                                IV. MunicipalDistrictof Limon
                9. El Limon
                10. Vallecito

        V. Municipal District of Santa Rosa de Aguan
                1 1. Santa Rosa de .4guan

        Vi. Municipal District of Iriona
                12. lriona Viejc
                13. Punta Piedra
                1.1. Sangrelap
                15. Cocaiito

        VII. Municipai District of Balfate
                16. Rio Esteban

        VIII. Municipal District of Trujilio
                17. Rio Negro
                IS. Cristales

        IX. Municipa: Districtof Tela                                                        I

                19. Triunfo de la Cniz
                20. La Ensenada
                21. Miami
                22. RiaTinto



                                               i07

Hondirras



                                          AIDE hlEMOIRE
         ESTABLISHMENTOFTHE MESA REGIO,V,4L OF P?GlXARlZATIGNAND
       CONFLICT RESOLUTION AND SELECTIONOF 12 PROTECTEDAREAS

X.    MunicipalDistrict of La Ceiba
               23. Corozal
                 24. LaCeiba
XI.    Municipal Districtof La Masica
                25. LaMasica

        Following a presentationand discussion about the processes of land Regularizationand
        Titling, an agreement was reachedto establish the MESA REGlOlVlL OF
        REGULARIZATION              ANI) CONFLICT RESOLUTION OF ATLANTIDA               Y
        COLON, which is structured in the following manner:

                 0  The 6 membersof the regional organizing committee.
                          i. JuanAlbertoCastillo
                          ii. Kancy Figueroa
                          iii. JuanG6mez
                          iv. Omar Loredo
                          v. Juan OIivia Gonzdez
                          vi. Telma Gotay
                          vii. Evangelista Garcia
                            ...
                          VII!. Nelson Lenin Gonzrilez

                 0  1 representativeof each pcitronato of the 8 communities selected.
                    1 representative of each landcommittee (or its equivalent)of the 8
                    communitiesselected.
                 0  OFRANEH
                 0  ODECO
                 0  Garifiina Catholic Pastoral Diocese Commission
        Each representative wiii act as a permanent member, and because of the importance of
the issues to be handled,each representative will name a substitute to the Mesa who will repiace
him in the event of the absence of the representative.
        The commsnlties seiected that are part of the Mew Reginrial are:

        1. San Antonio Municipal District of Santa         5 . Sangrelaya Municipal District of
       .   Fe-Colon                                           iriona-Colon
        2. Punta Piedra Municipa! District of Iriona       6. Rio Tinto Municipal District of
            Colon                                            Tela-Atlhtida
        3. Cristales Y Rio Negro Municipal District of 7. Santa Fe Municipa! District of
            Trujillo-Colon                                    Santa Fe-Colon
        4. Lim6n Municipal District of Lim6n-Colon         8. Guadslupe Municipal District of
                                                           Santa Fe-Colon

        Finally, the working groups were incorporatedto select the 12 protected areas to be
delimitatedby PATH:

                 1. Janeth K.
                 2. h n t a i z ~ p o
                 3. Texipx

                  1.CapBlanco
                  5. Punta Piedra
                  6. Rzserva De Betulia
                  7. Farallones De Limon
                  8. Laguna De Zambuco
                  9. Corredor De Payas 0 Poyas
                  IO. Laguka De Guaimoreto, Capiro and Calentura.
                  1 1. Bana De Calderas .4 Cabo Camar6n
                  12. Microcuenca Del Rio Juana Leandri

         By authorizing the establishment of the aforementioned Mesa Regionai, the plena?
establishes a series of o!$ectives, mandates and goals that this Mesa must always take into
account, seek to faithfully fu!fill and carry out as stipulzed hereinafrei:

                       GUIDING PRINCIPLES OFTHEMESA REGIONAL

         In interpreting and applying the provisions of this agreemini, tne following principles
 must be taken into consideration:

         1. Ethnic and Cultural Diversity. This i s the principle under which the activities of the
 Mesa Regional will be performed in compliance with the lifestyle of the Gm'funa peoples. and
 will take into consideration its cuitural. economic and environmental distinctiveness, as well as
the criteria of comprehensiveness, interculturality, linguistic diversity and flexibility.

         2. Autonomy. This signifies the nght of the Garifuna Peoples to make autonomous
decisions under the guidelines established in L O Convention 169.

         3. Will of Majority. This must be applied so that decisions reflect the will of the
majority attending the respective ordinary or extraordinq meetings, and are consistent with
justice and the well-being of the Garifuna peoples.

         4. Principleof Non-Exclusion. This guarantees the +ght OFparticipation and
expression of opinions of all parties involved in this Program.

         5. Efficiency. This signifies the best social and economic use of administrative.
technical and financial resources available for the development of thc work o f the Mesa Reginncl,
and so that the resources and benefits of PATH are used and offered in an adequate, opportune
and sufficient manner.

         6. Participation. This refers to the involvement of the Mesa Regional through its
representatives in activities of control, management and inspection of the components of the
Programin its entirety.

         7. Correction of Procedures. Deficiencies in procedures that are correctable may be
remedied with the objective of guaranteeing the correct application of processes and the rights of
members of the Mesa Regional

Hondiira;



                   DEFICIEXCIES OF IKWhlEDIABLE PROCEDURES

        Any action or meeting of the tiresa regionnl that i s carried out with the objective of
        exercising its own functions without formally guaranieeing the right of participation or
        expression of its members, wi!! be invalid and therebe without effect.

     OBJECTIbTS AND iLIAND.4TESOF THE PLEKARE'INRELATIONTO THE
        MESA REGI0,VAL AND PATH


        1 . The nzem re,qiotial is created with the objective of coordinating the processof
        regularization and conflict resolution in the 8 communities selected for that purpose.

        2. As part of its activities, the mesu regional must include monitoring and planning with
        government entities and internationa! agencies with the purpose of identifyingand
        receiving financial and human resources within the framework,.of land tenure that may
        enable the following problems to be solved.

                a. Financing of title clearance
                b. Financing of productive projects
                c. Financing of health projects
                d. Financing of educationprojects
                e. Financing of environmental projects
                f. Financing to strengthen:nsti:utions

        3. In AtlintIda and Colon the Mesa Regional must coordinate the delimitation process of
        the protected areas, and must handle the issues of the protected arras together
       with the issues of the nearby Garifuna communities in order to prevent any
         negative impact upon Gm'funa Peoples.

       4. PATH will join the Mesa as an additional member in order to assist with
       regularization and conflict resolution in the Gan'funa communities selected.

       5. PATH will assist the Mesa Regioriul in its operations, training and planning with
       various local, regional and central Government authorities. as well as with various
       international agencies.

       6. Delimitate the areas titled to the Garifuna communities and proceed with the
       communal regularization while respectingthe title as a private communal area
       without dividing ir into individual parcels,as the Gm'hna lands are our heritage. Withsut
       proceedingto an actual cadastralsurvey of the Gm'funa community in at least i5 io 20
       years.

       7. Tfie Mesa must cieate operationa! proceduresfor its operations. and this process. as
       well as various processes that they [sic] carry out. must be duly validated at their given
       time by the communities of the Garifuna Peop!es and, based on this consultation, carry
       out the adjustments and alterations !hat the people consider appropriate.

       5. The prclcess must be followed up so that every member is ful!y au`are of same

This meetingconcludes at 1:00 PM on Wzdnesday, March 17, 2005.

                                                    klarmgemerit Response




THE FOLLOWING AUTHORITIES AND LEADERSA'ITENDING THE WORKSHOF
SIGNEP THIS DOCUMENT.




                                              ....

Honduras



                                           AIDE hlEIMOIRE
         ESTABLISHMENTOF THEMESA REGIONAL OF REGULARIZATIONAND
      CONFLICT RESOLUTIOFU'AND SELECTIONOF 12 PROTECTEDAREAS

        [Most of the handrsritten entries appearing here and on thefollowing six pages are
       illegible. Thejrst r n v pages of names and signatures are both identified as "page 5 of
       9". The last page. page 9 of 9, has no entries. 1

NAME                  1COMMrnTTY                I POSIT!ON               [ SIGNATURE
                      I                         I                        I




                                               !!:!

                                                      Management Response




                      ANNEX 2.14




Minutes of the Mesa Regional's Meeting in Sangrelaya, Col6n




                      April 29,2005


        UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION


                                       SPECI4L MINUTES

        MEETLVG AT THE COMMUhYTY CENTER OF SANGRELAYA ON
        FRJDAY, APRIL 29,2005,THE MEMBERS OFTHE MESA RECIOiVAL
        AND COMMUNITY           LEADERSrNTHE FRAMEWORK OF THE
        REGULARIZATIONAND CONFLICT RESOLUTIONPROCESS OF
        THE HONDURAS LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM (PATH)
        INV E W OF RECENTEVEhTSTHAT HAVETAKEN PLACE EX
        RELATION TO THIS PROCESS.AGREE UPONTHE FOLLOWING,

[ink stamp of OFRANEH, Office of Coordination. La Ceiba, Xt!antida. illegible signature]

         1. To continue with thr strengthening of the regularization and conflict resolution
        process involvingGarifunacommunitiesin Honduras.
                                                                         ."
                                                                          I
        2. That the slogans and pronouncements issuedagainst PATH should not be
        taken into considerationby the authorities.Since the community issue is being
        discussed and examined within the Mesa Regiorial with the participationof
        community leaders in order to satisf} these legitimate demands.

        3. We encourage Garifunaorganizations to unite their efforts in order to
        strengthen the comprehensivedevelopment, consideringPATH as a facilitating
        instrument.

        4. We invite those outside this processto become involved and increase our
        human capital.

        5. PATH has been granted a vote of confidence by the Garifuna through
        the mesa of regularizationand conflict resolution of Col6n and Atiantida. and
        for this reason we insist that it continues respectingand working towards the
        fulfillment of the agreementsand guiding principles of the mesa regional that
        guarantee the communities' demands and exigencies. Otherwise. the communities
        reserve the right to continue assisting the said process.

        In witness whereof, we sign this document.

        /Most of the handbr.ritteneniries appearing here and oti thefoilowing tbropages are
        illegible. Thesepages arefollowed by the trawlation of the heading that appears on the
         last 3 pages that nlso carp illegible handN'ritteti enti-irs]

      j NAME                      COXlhJUhIn                 1POSITION            ISIGNATURE     1
                                ~

        HONDURAS LANDADMINISTRATlON PROGIWhl (PATH)
           CommunityParticipationand Ethic Affairs Department




-NO .   Name   ID Card      Representing Position      Place of  Signature
                            Organization               Origin                     .
                                                                                  f




                                                                              it

                                                               Maringement Response




                                ANNEX 2.15




Minutesof the MeetingBetween Members of the Mesa Regional and Representativesfrom
                                  Ofraneh



                                June 9,2005


                    UNOFFICIAL ENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                      119


                                                                      Matlogemetit Hespotise



 AGREEhlENTOF THE hEETINC HELDBETFTEESTHEiZIESA REGlOA'AL
             AND OFKANEH [Honduran Black Fraternal Organization]

Meeting in the Citj of Trujiilo Colon on June 9,2005 withiii the framework of the fourth
meetingof the Mesa Regional de Regularim-idn y Resblucidn de Coiflictns de Atldntida
v Caldn and the Honduran Black FraternalOrganization. OFRANEH.

Following a series of studies concerningprocesses recently undertakenpertainingto land
issues and the various legalizationmodels that have been imp1emen:ed.

Concerningthe Land AdministrationProgram(PATHj it has been agreed as fol!ows:

        1. We do not oppose the Land Administration Program(PATH), and agree to
        propose to our board of directors to join the RegionalOffice with one
        owner and one deputy.                                    ,..

        2. We acknowledgethat the work that the Mesa Regional has performedshould
        continue.withthis process to bejoined by the members appointedby the current
        Board of OFRANEH.

        3. To review the document,Methodology for Determinirig and Measuring Land
        to be Titled in the Ethnic Communi8 presented by the members of this
        organization once they havejoined. Nevertheless,this will not prevent discussion
        of the document concerningwhat has been achievedhy the Mesu Regiorial thus
        far.

        4. We express our commitrnsnt to continue the struggle for the defense of
        Garifuna lands in union with the RegionalOffice for Regularization.Conflict
        Resolutionand Titling of Atlantida and Colon.


In witness whereof, we sign this document on the ninthday of the month of June of the
year Two Thousand Five.

[all signatures illegible]

Angel Amilcar Colon Quevado                           Basiiia Figueroa
OFRANEH                                               Boardof Trustees of Cocaiito

Nancy Figueroa                                        Albcrto Castiiio
Secretary, Regional Office                            Si, RegionalOffice

                                                                                    1
                                                                                                I

    Honduras



    [ink stamp iliegible]

    ..,.OiiviaGonzalez                         LauraAgapito....
*   Mayor of Municipal District of Santa Fe           GarifunaPastoral
                                               DioceseCoordinator

    Luis Barrios Lino                          NelsonLenin Gonzalez
    Member, OFRANEH                            CIDH [IndependentCenter for the
                                               Development of Honduras]

    Vicente Loredo                             Gilma Lamberte
    Patronato,Santa Fe                         Travesia Yduth Program,
                                               OFRANEH

    Wilfred0 Guerrero                          Luis Barrios..,
    Coordinator, Defenseof the Land            OFRANEH
    Village of San Juan, OFRANEH

    Alfred Lopez                               Augustin Guenero
    Financial Coordinator                      Director of Registry,Limor!

    Luis Fernandez                             Celso Cacho Alvarez
    Coordinator, Land and Tenitory             Coordinator,Defense of the Land,
                                               Sangrelaya

    Aiejandro Fernandez                        Cesar Garcia Maria, Defense of the
    Patronato,Village of San Antonio           Land and Nat. Rec. of Travesia,
                                               OFRANEH .

    Olegario Lopez                             Zacaria Fernandez Montero
    Deputy Assistant, Departmentof             Spiritual Affairs, OFRANEH
    Gracias a Dios

    Carlos Barbareno                           Mario Martinez
    Vice President,Boardof Trustees of         President,Boardof Trustees
    Guadalupe                                  Sangre!aya


 '  Albert0 Laiin Chimilio                     Lilian Carol Rivas
    Councilman, Municipality of Trujillo       CommunicationsCoordinator,
                                               OFRANEH

                                                               Management Response



Cesar Garcia Mariano                        RicardoOmar Loredo
Defenseof the Land and Natiofial RPC        President-Elect.Village
of Travesia, OFRANEH                        of Cristalesy Rio Negro

Zacarias BernandezMontero                   Ansula Bemudez
Spiritual Affairs, OFRANEH                  Garifuna Pastoral

I!bin Bermudez                              [iilegible]
President,Boardof Trustees, Limon           Coordinator. C D H

Celso Aiberto.. ..                          EmrininoArribia Colon
Councilman.Municipal District of Sank Fe    President,The Elder!y
                                            Village of Tocamacho

Maribel Mejia Diego                         MariaTeresa.Garcia
Member, Patronato, Rio Tinto                Auditor, Patronato, Guadalupe.

MagdalenaMartinez                           Maria EIena Fernandez
Secretary, Patronato,RioTinto               Secretary, Patronato of
                                            Village of Guadalupe

Judith Bemandez
Health Committee, Village of Rio Tinto




                                        I??


                                                                 Marlagemerit Respotise




                                   ANNEX 2.16




List of ParticipantsIntegratingthe Working Commissions of the Mesa Regional and the
  Three Mesas Locales inthe Communities of Guadaiupe,Cocaiito, and Sangrelaya



                                   June 9,2005


                      UNOFFICIAL ENGLISH TRANSLATIOX




                                        125


                                                                         Manugenietit .r(cspotise



                CREATION OF THE ILIES.4S LOCALES INTHE GARiFCNA AREA

   Mesas Locales were created as an instance where thz community participates and discuss their
   territorial issues.
   These hihas Locales are integrated hy leaders from different community organizations, the
   grassroots and other representative members of the community.
                                                                                                     i
   Mesa Local Cornunidadde Cocalito
   President:              Marcelino Doimo
   Vice President:         Sotero Meji.a
   Secretary:              Feliza Norales
   Treasuier:              Martha Fiperoa
   Fiscal:                 Virgilia Velasquez
   IChairperson:           Lucas Martinez
   I1Chairperson:          Alejandro Miguel
   111Chairperson:         Sandro Rivas
   N Chairperson:          Cesar Aquino                           ."'




   Mesa Local Cornunidadde Sangrelaya, Iriona, Colon.
  .President:              Justin0Fernrindez
   Vicepresident:          FranciscoOrtiz'Dolmo
   Secretary:              RosalidiaGonzfilez Velrisquez
   Treasurer:              Sandrahvarez Martinez.
   Fiscal:                 Aparicio Bernardez Casildo
   IChairperson:           Zen6n Dolmo Alvarez
   I1Chairperson:          Santos Sofia Bulnes Guzman.

'  111Chairperson:         Nelly Velasquez Batiz
   IV Chairperson:         EusebioCenteno Alvarez
   V Chairperson:          BenitaMartinez
   V IChairperson:         Jorge Thomas Castillo.    ,



   Mesa Local Cornunidadde Guadalupe.Santa Fe, Colon.
    I.CarlosBarbareno
   2. PerfectoGuillen
   3. Venancio Caballero
 , 4. Ciria Cayeiano
   5. SelmaCeciiio M. David
   6. MariaTeresa Garcia
   7. Celso Albert0 Guillen
   8. Banola Bernardez
   9.EmeregildoSosa
    IO. Manuel Martinez.
    1 I.Ignacio Mejia.

Honduras



 CREATION OF THE FOLLOWlNCW'ORKING COhI;LIISSIONSTO STRENGTHEN
                              THE MESA REGIONAL

TRAINING COiCIhlISSION
Members:
   1.  Vicente Loredo,              (PatronatoSta Fe)
   2. Telrna Gotay,                 (CEPROSAF).
   3. Juana Olivia Gonzdez          (AlcaldesaMcpio de Santa Fe)
   4. MariaTeresa Garcia.           (Patronato. Guadalupe)
   5. Carlos Barcelona,             (Patronato Guadalupe
   6. Maria Elena Femindez.         (Patronato Guadalupe)
   7. Nancy Vic:oria Figueroa.       (ODECO)
   8. Lauro Agapito Alvarez.        (Comisi6nDiocesana)


MONITORING COMMISSION                                         ...
Members:
   I. OlegarioL6pez
   2. Albeno Latin Chimilio
   3. Lauro Agapito Alvarez Dolmo
   4. Nancy Figueroa
   5. Lenin Gonzdlez.
   6. Juana Olivia GonzBlez.'




DISSEMINATION COMMISSION
Members:
   1.  Amilcar Colon        Presidentede OFRANEH
   2. Celso Cacho           GrupoCampesino
   3. Lauro Agapito         Pastoral Garifuna

                                                       Mariagewwtr Response




                          ANNEX 2.19




Minutesof the MeetingBetweenthe Mesa Regional and World Bank Staff




                       September 22,2005


             UNOFFICIAL ENGLISHTRANSLATIQN




                               I45


                                                                              hlanagenient Respnrise



                                 SECOND CONVERSATION
        Mesa Regional of Land Regularization in Carifuna Communities U'orld Bank
                                                                             -

Date: September 22. 2005
Place: MeetingRoom of the Collegeof Lawyers, L a Ceiba, Atlinticia

PROPOSEDAGENDA

I.Self-Introduction
3. Welcome to World Bank Mission
   Messrs. Jorge Mufioz and FernandoGaleana
5. Presentationof the process of selecting the eight Afro-Honduran communities
6. Agreements

Participants: Representatives of Mesa Regional for Reg~darizationand Resolution of Conflicts
in Atlantida and Colon. PATH, and World Bank staff members              *.'

     1 .   Juan G6mez                                     Political Governor of Col6n
     2. ErasmoPadilla                                     PATH Technical Coordinator
     3. Rodolfo Alvarez                                   PATWCoordinator P.C.A.E.Area
     4. Jorge Mufioz                                      World Bank PATHManager
     5. FernandoGaleana                                   World Bank Operations Assistant
     6. Alberto Castillo Ord6iiez                         Regional Bureau
     7. Albeno Lalin Chimilio                             Regional Bureau/ Municipal
                                                          Councilman Trujillo
     8. JosC Galdamez                                     Foresr Project - UCP
     9. Jorge Cacho                                       Afro-Honduran Liaison
     10. Carlos BarbarenoBarcelona                        Vice President Guadalupe Parronaro
     1 1 . Alejandro FernAndez                            President San Antonio Patrotinto
     12. Maribel Mejia                                    Member RioTinto Parronaro
     13. Juiian Bernardes                                 Rio Tinto Community Leader
     14. Olegario Lopez Rochez                            Member of the National Congress
                                                          for the Liberai Party  ,
     15. Angel Amilcar Quevedo                            PresidentOFRANEH
     16. Nancy Figueroa                                   Secretary .&lesa Regional
     17. Nelson Lenin GonzAlez                            MonitoringCommission
     18.. Adela Gonzalez                                  PATWCommunityLiaison
     19. Nidia Arguijo                                    PATWDissemination Manager


The discussion began with a general report on the process used iu organize the Mesa Regional
and to select eighr Gaiifuna communities and 12 protectedareas.

In this regard, the Mesa informed that PATH technical staff \vent to the city of TruJi!!o and
visited the different Garifuna communities of Atlsntida. Cc!5n, and Gracias a Dios to invite them
to a communiry meeting that would address at least two objectives: ciie was to select eight
Guifiina communities to be regularized and :he other to establish a Mesi; Regional for the
Regularization and Resolution of Conflicts, composed of the various, most representative
gassroots organizations.

Honduras


                                                                                              . .
Next. after majo:'effi\Eh '.+ere mude, 2 meeting WBS held in Tmji!lo \vi[!!   about 112 persons, at
which the comminities of Sangrelaya. hnta Piedra, Limcin, Cristales and Rio Negro. Santa Fe,
San Antonio, Guadalupe and Rio Tinto were selected. These communities were selected
following a consultation prr?csssand prior meetings in the communities.

The Mesu emphasized that this meeting was quite strong and many discussions were presentedon
the land problem faced by the Garifuna communities, the same problem that, to date, after 207
years of Garifuna presence in Hondilras ha5 not be resolved or has only been partially resolved.
Therefore the PATH was seen as a possibility for solving this problem.

Later, the Mesa Regicitznl was creakd. at that time composed of eight institutions: CID, ODECO.
OFRANEH.hlAMUGAH, Solidaiidud Internacional (SI), the Municipal Government of Tiujillo,
the community of Cristales and Rio Negro. among others. To strengthen this Mesa. the meeting
suggested that the presidents of parrmaws and land commissions in each of the eight selected
communities also join.

Next, the World Bank mission presenteda series of questions to the Mesn Regional.,on the basis
of which the follo\ring points were explained:

     1 .The communities were selected through working groups who, using a methodology,
        expressed the different problems of each community and then based on prioritization and
        negotiation agreed on which communities to select and for what type cf work. In this
        regard. the Mesa Reyiona! explained that some communities have more problems and are
        more difficult than others, and that for this process to continue an effort was made to staR
        with the less conflictive ones or those whose leaders were able'to negotiate. In summary.
        the work was carried out by four g~oups.each of which selected two communities, thus
        adding up to eight.

    2. Once each group selected its communities, they were presentedat a plenary meeting and
        were validated as pan of the meeting's agreement.

    3. There was no resentment hy any community that was not selected, because it i s a process
        and the aim is to begin with. eight communities and then expand to others. What was
        explained at the meeting is that a process would be carried ou! with these first eight
        communities,to gain experienceand then continue with others.

    3. Later, the Mesa Regional for Regularization and Resolution of Conflicts was formed,
        composed of the abovementioned organizations, presidents of patrfinaros and land
        committees with their iespective alternates t:,         represent them in their absence.

        After the first stagz. other meetings were held to form the monitoring committee that wili
        be in charge of carrying out various concrete actions aimed at strengthening the Mesa and
        monitoring the replarization process. This committee is composed of seven people who
        preparedai! initial work that has been submitted for approval.

    5. The compos~tioriof the stakeholders who participated in the first Trujillo meeting
                      . .

        included leaders of the different grassroots community organizations, NGOS, presidents
        of Patrotiatos. land cornmibsions, etc. Each community sent two to four people, from a
        total of 26 communities invited.      BS well as   the insti!utions that work in Gan'f'una
        communities and the Departmental Governor.

        6. The cxnrnunitli of Cocdito in Sangrelaya was not sc!ected in the first list but was
            included when the first community rne?ting was held in Sangrclayrt, at the request of
            members of the Mesa.

        7. To date, and as first step in dissemination to the communities, communication has been
            through the leaders who represented each communiiy, acting as informants. This process
            i s one of the Mesu's principal priorities and concerns.     ,

   The Mesa members emphasized that they are in this process because they believe in it and
    although they have doubts abcut the program they will not gs to the extreme of saying they do
    not want the program. They reiterated that the communities need the program. but there are
    certain aspects that need to be analyzed with the relevant technicians and then transmit reliable
    information to the communities. I f the analysis by experts is counterproductive to their
    expectations, then they will take their cu.n stand on the matter.

    With regard to doubts about the operation of the process, the Mesn expressed that perhaps there
   are not so many doubts but that the major problem is logistics.`to reach the, grassroots
   organizations and explain to them how the project is going. In this time they have been imbued
    with various responsibilities but lack the logistics to bring the information to the communities.

    Another doubt is the concerns and fears in the communities regarding the implementation of
    Chapter Three, Article 100 of the Property Law and amendments to this law, from hhich is
    extracted the Forced Expropriation Law.

   These elements. in association with Bahia de Tela project. among others. haw increased
   uncenainty to such a degree that some communities believe that their lands can be expropria:ed to
    favor third parties who have illegally invaded the lands that historically beiong to the Garifuna
    peoples.

    However, it was acknowledged that these situations can be overcome through dissemination and
    by defining the methodology to be used in the process. which should be subject to analysis by this
    group of lawyers. This activity is par: of the action plan that the monitoring commission
    presented to PATH and to date no official response has been given because many concrete
   actions depend on it. Otherwise. it will be difficult tcj begin this dissemination process and clear

, 'up all their doubts.

    I r was pointed out that for some Garifuna organizations land i s an asset and paradoxically they
   currently constitute the enemies not only of the PATH but also cf the Mesu's members. It is
   regrettable that for this reason they are risking their necks as leaders and it is not fzir that, by
   defending this process. they must gain more enemies.

   Thus. Iappeal to the intelligence and good wi!l of the PATH and the Wor!d Bank so that the plan
   they presentedcan immediately be made operat:ona!.

   The World Bank represent:.tives explained that under the PATH project, establishedunder the
   Credit Agreement of August 18, 2003 betweenthe Government of Honduras and the World Bank,
   there are provisiccs to protect the rights of indigenoils and Cran'funa populations. Specifica!ly,
   Section 3.1i of the Agreement states that in the project's areas of influence no lands adjacent to
    indigenous lands shall be physically dernzrcated or titled uriless procedures are followed to ensure
   the rights of indigenous peoples who are duly consulted together with the partic:<affected, in a
    manner satisfxtcry :o the World Bank and ini,-orpora:zd in the project`s Operational Manual.

 Hondriras




 In addition, they explained that the documents dealing with procedures to regularize iands and
 resolve conflicts, circulated b> the UCP,art. drzfts sub-iectto discussion, and therefore cannot yet
 be considered official and have not been incorporxed in the project's Operationalhlanual.

  In this regard, it is important that the methodology be decided as soon as possible so that no field
  activities are carried out until these mechanisms are detailed and approved by the government and
  with the Bank's consent.

  At the same time, the mission infcirmed that the Government of Honduras has made a request
  through the World Bank to the Government of Japan for a USS1.9 million grant to support the
  efforts of consultation, participation, legal counseling, and training of its 0rganiza:ions.
  Unfortunately, due to bureaucracy within the Government of Japan, this request has not been
  approved. In three to six months it will be possible to hire lawyers to advise not only the Meso
  Repiotzal but also the communities on a case-hy-casebasis, once field work begins.

  AMILCAR COLON                                                          ..,,                           . .
  Further to what Olegario mentioned about these documents having created the crisis of this
  process, he recalled that meetings were originally held with OFRWEH and the administration
  before he was appointed. Unfortunately, these authorities did not transmit the information to the
  grassroots level because they did not reach concrete agreements during the preliminary
  negotiations. Now thai the program has begun. they have been obliged to gather ail the
 documents and a commission was formed. for which responsibilities must be assigned and
 experts must be appointed to analyze these documents.

 ALBERT0 CASTILLO
 He expressed that one of the proposals is that the people were worried about the ti:ie clearing
 (sarzeamienro) of Garifuna communities. There is a loud cry about this and it would be good if the
 Bank can consider it under this program because the biggest problem the cornmunities have is
 that they are being occupied by other people.

  In addition, he indiccted that the Mesa is a little annoyed... The Mesa i s annoyed with the
 program ...we are extremely annoyed and we want to emphasize this... We are annoyed because
 three months ago we submitted a proposal that it asked us for, and as of today, September 22, we
 have had no official reply. A proposal to make the Mesa operational, to disseminate the program,
.to be able to act.

 In summary, he suggested t w things: that the Bank consider the title clearing (scrnrayziento) of
 the communities and thzi the peopie have greater participation not on!y in validating but also in
 preparing the instrments.

 RODOLFOAL'C'AREZ
 He acknowledged iha! there is a structural reality and an operational reality. In this regard. he
 reminded [those present] that the first one to k!!them and admit to them that there was an
 operational problem was he, and that the transparency and acknowledgment of these errors has
 been part of the trust that has existed.

 With regard to their suggestions. he reminded them that poin! three of the Tru!il!o meeting
 Ininutes stater 2s one of PATH'Scommitments its support in seeking title clearing (sanea,.?ziento)
 ,projects when these exist in the country. a.s well as ducatioii, infrastructure, and health projects.
 as well as the hiring of Gan'funa staff.

                                                                              i%larzagemetitRespowe




jORGE hIUfiOZ
He indicated that it is verj impoflant for the Mzsa to keep in mizd that the PATHis not ar! entity
but rather a financial instrument of the Government of Honduras to resclve land problems. and
like this instrument there are others such as the one Albert0 mentioned. Therefore, it is very
important no: to confuse them. He reminded them of the commitment assumed by the
Government of Honduraswith the World Bank, which is applied to the PATH. As an example,
the other leaders of OFRANEH have formally complained to the Bank that something like this
was happening.However, it was investigatedand i t turned out not to be this project.

OLEGARIO LOPEZ
He proposed that the minutes of this meeting be signed by the World Bank representatives as
witnesses of what has been proposed, and the matter of the ratification of non-expropriation [of
funds] and other commitments that the Bank has assumed with the Government and peopie of
Hondurasis also implicit.

Therefore, he proposed that several commitmentsbe reachedat the erld'of the meetin,g:

 1.      Because there is no official response to the plan submitted to the PATH, see what things
        can and cannot be done under the framework of the PATH'Slimitations.

2.      Carry out dissemination,prepare radio spots, and visit the fifteen Gan'funa communities
        to make themaware of the project.

3.      Analyze the documents as to why actions were not implemented, unless there is
        something that arises from the world view of the black peoples of Honduras.

4.      Do not wait for the Japanese funds to amve for hiring the experls who will support the
        analysis of the documents because this was one of the agreements reached in Tmjillo.

JORGE MUfiOZ
He'expressedthat it would be better to discuss with the PATH the issue of how many resources
exist, because he does not handle the details on this. However, there i s the possibility of hiring a
lawyer, and the important thing is to continue moving forward in defining the methodology which
should be in accordance with the laws and other procedures established under the legal
framework of the Government of Honduras. What is important i s to comply with the
requirementsof and commitmentsto the Bank.

Inthis regard, Mt.Mufioz asked what were the three most important things that need td be done
right now.

AMILCAR COLON
    I- A lawyershouldbehiredtointerprettheofficiaidocuments
    2-      The resolutionof this commissionshould be submittedto the full Mesu Regional
    3-      Once appioved by the Mesa, go io the grassroots and begin disseminating the
            informaticn.

JORGEMUNOZ
He proposed that :he architect, Mr. Padi!la, together with PATHstaff, make a detaiied assessment
of the resourcesavailable for six incnths, and basedon this prioritize thz costs of expem, the type
of analysis that can be performed, and how long it v.4fl take. Also, analyze whether the

disseniinatiori can begin iilat least onz con;;-iiunltJ'and then iii others. vihile reachkg early 2Oiitj
when more resources will be available&

ERASMO PADILLA
He expressedhi5 satisfaction with the meetingand said that the team did not feel offended by any
just complaint that has heen made, because the Mesn's principa! objective is to present concerns
and in the end come up with a proposal. The representativesare here to S U F ~ Othe~ Mesa in this
land problem which is becoming increasingly complex.

In this regard, he expressed his willingness tu validatz the Mew aid urged them not to disregard
the efforts it is making. Instead, work should be done to consolidate it and to better organize so it
can carry out periodic and systematic meetings and that these should be transparent.

 With regard to the four proposed requests, he asked that the Mesa be the one to propose which of
 its trusted experts it wants to be hired and not to seek someone from outside, and he suggested
 revisingthe proposal for disseminationand to begin with small contributions.
                                                                           ." `

 For his part. he offered the technical support of the PATH to bring together criteria, strerigthening
with tools such as the Property Law and its articles, revising and implementing them together
with the Mesa.

JORCE Mug02
To finalize, he emphasized the Bank's willingness to support the regularization process in the
Garifuna communities. i t is aware of their struggle and therefore the Bank is supporting the
Government of Honduras in meeting its expectations. One recommendation thar he made both to
the PATH staff and the Mesa is not tc raise false expectations in the people and before beginning
dissemination to be sure what the project can and cannot do in the short term because there wil!
be budget restrictions.




                                                                                                            I

                                                              Managemenr Response
c




                                 ANNEX 2.20



                                                         .I`



     Minutes of the Meeting Betweenthe Mesa Regional and World Bank Staff



                               November 4,2005


                    UNOFFICIAL ENGLISH TRANSLATION




                                      I53


    Aide-hlemoire    -Meetingwith     the M.odd Bank, hlonitoring Commission of the 6arifuna
                                      Mesa Regional and PATH


  The meeting began at 9:OO a.m. in the meetingroom of the Hotel Italia in the city of L a Ceibc!on
  November 1,2005 with the following participants:
  Monitoring Commission of the Garifuna Mesa Regional:.Angel Amilcar Colon. Lauro
  Agapito L6pez. Olegario Lopez. Alberto Lslin Chimilo, Nancy Figueroa.
  Commission of the Garifuna Mesa Regional: Edy McNab, Aurelio Ramos.
  World Bank Representatives: jorgt. Muiioz, Fernando Galeana.
  PATH Staff Members: Eiasmo Padilia, Rodolfo Alvarez, Jorge Cacho, Nidia Arpuijo, Mipel
  Ordoiiez, Mauio Pino, Adela Conzalez. DenidseryJuiirez.

  The discussiontook place as follows:

  Mr. Lauro Agapito Alvarez, member of The Mesa, gave the opening prayer and welcomed the
  participants.                                                         ..*,




  Jorge Mufioz, World Bank representative:Thank you for your kind wishes. Irepresent the World
  Bank. The objective of our visit is to hold discussions'with you, as a formal mechanism of
  representativesof Garlfunacommunities,on the key subject of this visit. We are the financiers of
  this project and we wish to see what progress has been made since the meeting in L a Ceiba this
  past September 22, especially on the hiring of a lawyer and other matters, on OFRANEH's
  complaint to the World Bank. Iwill tell you that we have specific procedures to address these
  complaints. There is a [World Bank] Board which.establishes these procedures, in particular with
  regard to the supervision and evaluation of our projects. The procedures require participatory
  mechanisms and this Mesu is a mechanism that the World Bank recognizes.One of the [Bank's]
  policies is participation and consultation.In the case of OFRANEH's complaint. we are obliged
  to hear them and this in no way signifies that we have entered into an agreement with them. I
  regret and it hurts me very much that you think SO. The World Bank will not take any decision
  until exhausting all possible options.I'd like to know if you have any questionon this.

  Amiicar Colon,Mesa membei:There is a space to settle and discuss land problemsand the hfesa
  kthe mechanism to do this. I t hurts me that they use land problems for their modic,s LiL'cIidi. We
  are aware of the Bank's policies and safeguards to ensure the rights of black peoples. We cannot

, permit the seesawing by some Garifuna organizations which utilize the land issue tor personal
  gain.

  Alberto Lalin, Mesa member: The Mesa is open to all those brothers and sisters who wax to be
  pan of it. Our desire is to have them among us so they can support  UF with their experiences.

  Lauro Alvarez, Meso member: Ireiteratemy qeetings. We have been transparent and Ibelievea
  timeiine should be prepared, iisting the times that we have tried to meet with the bro!hers and
  sisters of OFRANEH, and i t has not been possib!e. I t is necessary te set a precedent with date5
  and everything so there is evidence of what i s happening. 1 was one of those who expressed
  opposition at the first meeting held in Trujillo when the PATH was disseminated, but now Iam
  here because Ibelieve in the programand Iam a tireless fighter and Ihave been fighting fo: feny
  years heiping to establish rnany organizations.

 ,Jorge Muiioz, World Bank representative: The issue of complicity does not exist and this
  saddens me a lot becausethey ;re attackingthe Worid Eank. Xno:her letter should be prepared to

   Honduras



   document that this     ISthe space for them in the program ti) express all their concerns. ILIJT-I
   satisfied. We need each other. the country needs the World Bank, the government need. the

.  people.
   I t i s important that we show the importance of the Mesa. Let's make this commitment. all three
   parties, so we can support one another. Iwill send a letterjust like I've been asked, expressingthe
   World Bank's full support to the Mesa Rt.giot:al.

   Issue: Damagecaused by tropical storm Beta

   Olegario Lopez, Mesa member:- There is an emergency committee. Don Juan G6mez
   (Departmental Governor of Col6n) understands the communities' condirions but we are going to
   have to run the risk olirselves for our brothers and sisters. The first thins is to bring food an3
   medicines and then rehzbilitate !he dam-ged infrastmctiure.We wan1to know if there is any hope.

   Jorge Muiioz. World Bank representative: First, I want to express'my sadness about this
   situation. Iam going to do everything possible. Some [actions] will be through the government. 1
   will speak: with Arq. Merriarn. 1 want you to understand that this i5'not part of our mandate.      , ,
   addressing emergencies.Iam saying this in order not to raise false expectations.

   Issue: OFRANEHparticipationin the meeting

   Angel Amilcar Colbn, Mesa member: A billletin should be preparedto let the others know about
   OFRANEH's withdrawal, and 1 feel that it was due to my presence (he refers to invitees to the
   meeting, members of OFRANEH, who did not want to be presentj. We could have met but
   unfortunately they withdrew.

   OIegario L6pez. Mesa member: As long as there is communication, the opening will be there.
   We shouldn't become enemies of oiir OFRANEH brothers and sisters. It is necessary to make use
   of the ancestral methods of understandingthat we know. Let's move forward with the process.

   Edy McNab. Indigenous liaison: Whai Isay to the World Bank is that we in La Mosquitia are
   very happy that you allow this space. The method works and it i s possible when everyone is
   involved. One should never disregard the importance of new community leaders.

   The meeting ended with the following agreements and resolutions:

          1. Preparation of a letter expressingthe opening of the Mesa Rqional and the reason for the
             present meeting.
          2. The World bank will not meet with any organization if the Gan'funa Mesa Regional i s
             not present.
          3. The World Eank will send a letter expressingits support to the Mesc Regicwal.
          4. Mr. Jorpe Muiioz. World Bank representatives, agrees to seek aid for the communities
             affected by tropical storm Beta through the government and other institutions.
          5. The World Bank will send a repon on a workshop it i s sponsoring in CA [Central
             America) on land issues.

                                                               Mariagemenr Response




                                   ANNEX 3.1




Notification from Ofraneh Interdicting Mr.Angel Amilcar ColQnfrom Acting as the
                      Organization's Genera1 Coordinator



                                  March 4.2005


                   UNOFFICIAL ENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                       I67


                                                                             Managemen! Response




Q F W E H
HonduranBlack FraternityOrganization
Barrio L a Merced, ContiguoB Clinicas la Fe,CasaNo. 1'74'7,L a Ceiba,
Departamento de Atlrintida, Aparlado Posial 34I

Telefax: 00(504)443.35.80,Tel: 443.24.92
E-mail:ofraneh@laceiba.com
Honduras, Centra! America

NOTIFICATION

To all Government and Non-GovernmentInstitutions, may this serve to advise the following:

That the director members and advisors of the organization OFRANEH, the HonduranBlack
Fraternal Organization,elected at assembly in Sambo Creek, Municipaiity of L a Ceiba,
Department of ktlantida, held from 18 to 21 December 2003,

Having convened to discuss and analyze as the sole point the arbitrary attitudeassumed by Mr.
Angel ~milchrCoIbn,

Agree the following in representationof our organization, and as authorised by the assembly of
director members and the advisory team:

As of this date to divest hlr. Angel Amilcar Colbn of his authority 10 represent or carry out
whatever management task in the name of our organization. until a further assembly is held, from
which emerge new authorizations.

Signed and sealedin the City of L a Ceiba, this fourth day of March in the year two thousand and
five.

(Signed)
Alfredo Lopez
Elsie C6rdova
Miriam Miranda
RoxanaAivarez
Gregoria Flores




                                                 !69


                                                                 Managernen?Response




                                  ANNEX 3.2

                                                            .I,




Press release from OFRaNEH signed by Mr.Angel Arnilcar C o l h declaring nul1the call
                       for an assembly to elect a new Board




                                 March 23,2005


                     UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                        171


                                                                                 Mariagemerii Hespoxse




                     HONDURAN BLACK FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION
                                              OFRANEH
L a Merced District, next to L a Fe Clinics, No. 1717, La Ceiba, Province of AtlBntida, PO Box
342 Telefax: (504)443-3580
ofraneh@laceiba.com



                                       . Pressrelease

The HonduranBlack FraternalOrganization(OFRANEH) hereby proclaims to the whole
population of Hondurasin general, and to the Afro-Honduran co~mufii:iesin particular, that:

I,A special assembly of the organization. designatedas ErasmoZunigaSambula, will be heldon
April 7, 8, and 9 in the Garifunacommunity of Cnstales, Trujillo, Depqment of Col6n.

2. The assembly convened by the advisers in the community of Punta Piedra, municipality of
Lriona, is null and void, since it violates the statutes, which clearly establishthat only the general
coordinator,or where appropriate the general counsel, may convene the assembly.

3. The Garifuna communitiesof Honduras must remainalert and vigilant concerningtheir
organizationand, with a view to ensuringthe transparency that should guide the actions of
OFRANEH, we are proposing, in the framework of the assembly in Cristales,Trujillo, that the
organizationshould be subjected to a structural and administrative evaluation; these actions are
essential in order to deal with the situation in the country, in which the black communiry should
be an important actor.

4. With regard to the demonstration convened by Miriam Merced Miranda and Gregoria Flores
and their followers, if the participantstake irresponsibledecisiom, the general coordinatcr of
OFRANEH will be forced to bring GregoriaFloresbefore the courts offusrice,since she is
attemptingto avoid beingsubjectedto the people's evaluation.

5. We call on ali the leaders of Afro-Honduranassociations in the country to draw closer and
heed this new step beingtaken by ORANEH, which'should extol and legitimately represent the
interests of all the blacks of Honduras and in :his way avoid becominga haven for opportunists.

Done in the city of Ceiba on March 23, 2005.

(Signed Angel Amilcar Colon Quevzdo
General Coordinator
OFRANEH




                                                    173


                                        Manapemeat Rejpnrise




               ANNEX 4.1
                                    _..




Letter from the World Bank to OFRANEH




           September 14,2005


UNOFFICIALENGLISHTMNSL.4TION




                   175


                                                                                           Matlagernetit Kesponse



The World Bznk                                                    !8I8 tiStreet N.%'.           (202) 473-iWO
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRLTCTIONAND DEVELOPMEUT              Washing~on.D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
  TRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                              U.S.A.                        Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                  September 14,2005


            Gregoria Flores
            Coordinator
            Honduran Black People's Fraternal Organization La Ceiba, Hondyras

            Dear Ms.Flores:

                                Hotidwas Larid Administration Program (Credit 3858-HOj

                     We appreciate your correspondence from August 15,2005, which we received on August
            26 of this yea:, with relation to the application of the Operational Directive 4.20 and Bank
            Procedure 4.10 in the context of the Honduras Land Administration Project (PATHI. We are
            undertaking a detailed review of your letter and we will reply in more detail at the earliest
            possible time. In the meantime, we invite you to meet with officials from the World Bank during
            their next project supervision mission, so that we are able to understznd in more detail the
            concerns stated in your letter. The mission. lead by Mr.Jorge Munoz, will be in Tegucigalpa from
            September 19 - 23. Therefore, we'd appreciate if you would communicate with our office in
            Tegucigalpa at 239-455 1. and indicate possible dates and times that would be convenieat for you.
           .so that we can agree on a meeting with the Bank mission.

                                                           Sincerely,


                                                     McDona!d Benjamin
                                                        Sector Manager
                                                     Social Development
                                               La!in America and the Ce,bbean




            Cc:      Mr.Adrian Fozzard, World Bank Representative in Honduras




                                                              177


                                          Manngenzent Respotise




               ANNEX4.4
                                     ....




Letter from the World Bank to 0FRAIViEi-i



           September20,2005


UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION




                   191


                                                                                           Manugernrnt Respotrse

                                                                                                          . _
The World Rank                                                  !S!S H SLrzzr S.\L'.            (202) 373-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRL`CTIOX ASD DEVELOP~IENT         W%fiir!gIGn. D.C. 30433         Cable Address: INTEAFRAD
 TEKNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT hSSOClATlON                            U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                    October 20, 2005


        Gregoria Flores
        Miriam Miranda
        Honduran Black People's Fraternal Orginizgion. OFRANEH
        La Ceiba. Honduras

        Dear Ms.Flores and Miranda:

                                 Honduras Lurid Administration Program (Credit 3S58-HO)
                                                                                      ,..,

        As follow-up to my letter on September 12. Iam writing to inform you about the actions faken in relation to
        the Honduras Land Administration Project (PATH). We are pleasedthat the meeting on September 21 in
       Tegucigalpa betweenrepresentativesfrom OFRXNEH and World Bank was positive. This allowed us to
       better understandyour concerns with respect to the Property Law and the project, and gave us the
       opportunity to explain in detai! the existing provisions in the project to comply with the World Bank's
        safeguards policies.

        In the meeting, Iunderstand that the representativesfrom OFRANEH clarified that their main concern is
        with certain provision of the Property Law, in particular. Art. 97. We understandthat your organization has
       taken concrete actions in relation to this subject by means of the presentation on proposalsto modify the
       Law given for the consideration of the National Congress on July 2005.

       With relation to the PATH project itse!f, in the meeting the representativesfrom the World Bank clarified
       that provisions exist in the PATH project to guarantee compliance with the safegiard policy related to
       Indigenous Peoples.Specifically, it was mentionedthat Section 3. I1 of the Development Credit Agreement
       establishesthat in the project area, there will be no physical demarcation or titling in lands adjacent to
       ethnic lands unless proceduresthat adequately protect the rights of indigenous peoples, duly consulted with
       affected parties in manner sa:isfactory IO the World Bank, and set forth in the Project's Operational
                           ;1
       Manual.

       Furthermore, the representativesfrom OFRANEH made three specific suggestions on the irnplemeutation
       of the projectx
            (i)     that the respect and transparency of the socialization process i s increased;
            (ii)    that the communities themseives will decide if whether they want to participate or no: in
                    PATH. through their proceduresfor internal decision making;
            (iii) that the Government of Honduras is requestedfGi a tri-partite meeting(Government,
                    represenlativesfrom OFRAVEH and other representativesentities of the Sarifuna
                    communities, and Wcrld Bank`s staff) to revise the project's implementation modalities (e.g.,
                    the pasicipation mechanisms in the !Mesa RegrGAd or the selection of communities).

       Inrelation to your concerns. Iani pleasedto inform you that we have discussed these concerns with
       officials from :he Government of Honduras and they have taken the following czncrete measures.First,
       they have confirmed :heir willingness io dialogue with you with respect tc the mechanismof participation
       in the Meso Regiotiul.Foithis mxtsr, a tri-partite meeting in L z Ceiba for October 1 1 or 13 was proposed.



                                                             193

     Hondurus



However. we receivedyour news that you were not ab!e to meet during those dates. You proposed October
25 as an alternative. but unfonunately the World Bank Task Tearn Leader for the project has other
commitmentson this date. Therefore, we'd like to propose a meetingfor Friday November9. at 1 1:00 a.m..          ,
when Iwill be in L a Ceiba, Honduras.Please confirm if such date and hour are feasible for you.

Second, the Governmentof Honduras, like ourselves, fully agree that the communities should be
appropriately consulted to protect their interests before carrying out ariy activity under the project that could
harmthem. This is consistent \+ithSection 3.1 1 in the Development Credit Agreement.

Third, the Mesa Rrziorial meeting heldon September 22, attended by two World Bank staff. proposed that
in order for the Government of Hondurasto better understandthe scope of the Property Law afid the
operative mechanism for the implementationof the project, the project shall finance the hiring of a lawyer
(to be suggestzd by the mesa regional itsztf and sslected accordingto the procurernent proceduresagreed
upon in the DevelopmentCredit Agreement 3858 for the PATH project)to directly support and advice the
Mesa Regionnl. The Worid Bank fully supports this request, which has already been receivedpositively by
the Government.I t is sxpected that this hiring will take place shortly.     .

Fourth, with respect to the concern manifested by OFRANEHon September 21 about the actions of some
officials on August 2005 in the community of PuntaPiedra in the Department of Colon, demandingto make
land measures(without havingpreviously communicatedwith the comnxmity), we'd like to inform you that
we have been informed that these officials were not from the PATH project.but that they worked for a
project not financedby the World Bank.

Finally, with respect to the official documentation about the implementationof the project, we haLe made
the recommendationto Gokernment to ensure that documents that are circulated and discussed with the
project's participants.The official documents are the DevelopmentCredit Agreement m d the Operational
Manual approved on Nobember 2004. It bears noting-and to avoid misunderstdndings in the future - the
document "h-lethodologqto Determineand Measure the Lands to be Titled to the Ethnic Communitie>".
which was a draft elaborated by the UCP, that had yet to be beendiscussed with &heMesa Regional, neither
approvedby the Government of Honduras nor the Bank is not an official document of the project.

We will be waiting your confirmation to attend the proposedmeetingon November4 in L a Ceiba.

Without further due. my regards,




             d                               McDonald Benjamin
                                               Sector Manager
                                              Social Deveiopment
                                       Latin America ar,d the Caribbean




Arq. Henry Me,+am, National Coordinaror,HondurasLandAdministration Project, Project Coordinztion
Unit
Mr.Adrian Fozzard. World Bank Representativein Honduras

c                                               Mariagement Response




                         ANNEX 4.6




          Letter from the World Bank to OFRANEH




                       October 27,2005


          UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION




     a




                             199


                                                                                             Management Resporlse



The World Bank                                                    18i8 H Street N.'A'.            (207i473-iocf(i
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTiONAND DEVELOPMENT              Washington. D.C. 203.7?         Cable Addiejs: iNTBAFRAD
  TERNATiONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCiAT!ON                             U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEI'AS



                                                                                      October 27. 2005


           Executive Committee
           HonduranBlack People's Fraternal Organization
           LaCeiba. Honduras

            Dear members of the ExecutiveCommittee:

                                 Honduras Land Administration Program (Credi?3858-HOj

            IwouldliketothankyouforcorrespondenceofOctober25,2005withcespecttotheHonduras
            Land Administration Project (PATH). As McDonaid Benjamin is away on mission, Iam taking
            the liberty to reply to you as World Bank Task Team Leader.

            First, Iwish to clarify that it was not the intentof the World Bank in the letter from October 20 to
            suggest that our discussion have been only with respect to Art. 97 of the Property Law. In this
            regard, in responseto your specific concern about the implementationof the project -
            summarized in the minutes of our meetingon September 21 - we have informed the Government
            of Hondurasabout all of your concerns (not only those regardingthe Law). The Government has
            confirmed its predispositionto meet with you and the Bank with regards to the participation
            mechanisms in the h4esa Kegionul. Furthermore,we fully agree with your suggesiionto properly
            consult Garifunacommunitiesbefore carrying any field activities under the project in order to
            protect [heir interests.

            The World Bank is open to understandin more detail your concerns. The field activities for
            demarcationand titling financed by !he project have not yet begun in the Garifuna areas. The
            main ifi:ention of the consultations that are currentiy taking place through the Mesa Regionai is
            precise!y to gather suggestions about how to safeguard the interests of Garifuna.comrnunities. If
            you have other concerns. we would like to know thesz and what specific suggestions yoii have to
            improve project implementation.Our invitation to meet together with representatives of the
            Government.Mi..McDonald Benjamin and myself in L a Ceiba, on Friday November4, at 1 1 :OO
            AM, remains open. Pleaseconfirm your assistanceto the meeting.
                      -+
                                                           Sincere!y,

                                                        Jorge A. ~v"luiloz
                            Task Team Leader. tionduras Land Administration Project (PATH)
                                           Latin Amcrica md the CaribbeanRegion

            Mr. McDona!d Benjamin,           Manager, Socia! Development, Latin America and the Caribbean
            Mr. Adrian Fozzard.              Worid Bank Representative :n Honduras




                                                              201


c                                          Management Response




                    ANNEX 4.9

                                       .".




     Letter from the World Bankto OFRANEH




                 November 18,2005


     UNOFFICIALENGLISHTRANSLATION




                                                           .




                        213


  Members of the
  HonduranBlack People's FraternalOrganization,OFR.4NEH
  La Ceiba, Honduras

  Dear OFRANEH co!!eagues:

                      Hotrdurm Land Adminimntion Program (Credir 3858-HO)

  Through this letter, Iwish to send you a cordial greeting while apologizing for not having been
  able tojoin you personally in La Ceiba this past Friday. November 4, due to a postponement of
  the missionto Hondurasdue to Humcane Beta. as well as due to the fact that 1did not receive
  your letter on time to confirm such meeting.Iwould like to take this opportunity to indicate our
  support with the Garifunacommunitiesaffectedby the recent hurricaneand our best wishes for a
  quick recovery.

  Likewise, Iwould like to thank you for your correspondence of November 8,2005, in connection
  with an upcoming meetingregardingthe Honduras LandAdministrati0.nProject (PATH).Again.
  we are confirming our willingness to meet with you to understand in greater detail your concern
` with regards to the projeci. We believethat, in order for the dialogue regardingthe project to be
  as productiveas possible, this shouid be open to all interested parties.The Government of
  Honduras, as the executingentity for project implementation. has established a mechanism for
  consultationand participation (theMesa Regiotznl) to discuss and resolve differences in opinion
 .about the project. We consider importantthat said mechanismbe strengthened taking into account
  the opinion of all interested parties, and forthis reason we are prepared to request a meeting
  betweenrepresentativesfrom the Governmentof Honduras,OFRANEH, other Garifuna
  representatives, and the World Bank,.in the consultationframework estabjished for the project,
  the Mesa Regional.

  We'd like to reiterate thatIS the World Bank's policy to maintain open all communication
  channels with civil society, via our office in Tegucigalpa BS well as our office in Washington, to
  attend to your concerns regardingthe consultationmechanisms establishedfor the project or ottfer
  considera%ons.Piease speak with the Task TeamLeader of the PATH project inthe World Bank,
  Mr.JorgeA. Munoz, regardingany concerns or suggestions thzt you have, which will be full)
  consideredby the Bank.

                                                Sincerely,

                                          McDonald Benjamin
                                              Sector Manager
                                           Social Development
                                    Latin America and the Caribbean

Honduras




Arq. Henry Memam, NationalCoordinator,Honduras Land Administration Project, Project
                   CoordinationUnit
Mr.Adrian Fozzard. World Bank Representative in Hondilras




                                                           _.,




                                                           .  ,
                                      216

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 34485

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GARIFUNAS ETHNIC POPULATION BY MUNICIPALITY:
                                      HONDURAS                                                 87                                                                                                           86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREDOMINANTLY GARIFUNAS
           LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GARIFUNAS & ENGLISH SPEAKING
              GARIFUNA COMMUNITIES AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AFRO-DESCENDANTS

                                RELATED SITES                                                                                            Caribbean Sea                                                                                                                                                                PECH & GARIFUNAS & ENGLISH SPEAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AFRO-DESCENDANTS

                               Request for Inspection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PREDOMINANTLY ENGLISH SPEAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AFRO-DESCENDANTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIVIDUAL GARIFUNA COMMUNITIES
       Cristales       COMMUNITIES PRELIMINARILY SELECTED BY MESA REGIONAL
                       FOR CONSIDERATION UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Isla de                                                                                MAIN ROADS
       Cusuma          COMMUNITIES REFERRED TO IN ANNEX 13 OF THE REQUEST                                                                                                        Santa                                                    Guanaja                                                                                SECONDARY ROADS
                       OFRANEH OFFICE                                                                                                                 meters                     Elena
                                                                                                                                                   200                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guanaja
                       COMMUNITIES WHICH HAVE A CASE PENDING BEFORE THE
                       INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS                                                                                                                         I. Barbareta                                                                                                                            AIRFIELDS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PORTS
                                                                                                                                                               Jose Santos Guardiola
                       EXISTING PROTECTED AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CORAL REEFS
                                                                                                                                                       Isla de Roatn
                       PROPOSED PROTECTED AREAS                                                                                                 Roatn                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES

                                                                                                                              Cohoon                                                                                                                                                                                             DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

   * This community was included in April 29, 2005.                                                                            Ridge     ISLAS DE LA BAHA                                                                                   200 meters                                                                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (shown only in predominantly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Garifuna Municipalities)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                Isla de Utila
                                                                                                    Utila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cristales                                                                                                                                          85
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Punta Castilla               Laguna de Guaimorado
                                                                                                      Turtle Harbour                                                                                                          Proposed Protected Area                            Limn                                                      Cocalito*     Batalla
   16           Rio Tinto                                                                            Wildlife Refuge                                                                         Puerto Castilla
                                                                                                      and Marine Reserve           Cayos Cochinos                                                                                                                                               Vallecito                          Sangrelaya
                                                                                                                                 Biological Reserve   Cayos                      Guadalupe
                        Jeannette Kawas National Park                                                                                                                                          Santa Fe Trujillo
                                Punta Sal                                                                                                             Cochinos                                                                                                                                                        Punta Piedra
                                                                                                                                                Cayos                                                                                                                                                                                    Iriona             Tocamacho
                                                       Punta Izopo                                                                              Cochinos
                                                       Municipal Decree                                                                                           Laguna Cacao                                                                  Col. del Agun
                                      Baha de Tela                          Cuero y Salado                                                                     Proposed Protected                                      Capiro y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Capiro                                                                                                                             Sico
                                                                             Wildlife Refuge                                                                          Area                               Rio Negro      CalenturaCalentura
                           Laguna                                                                                                                                                                                       National Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        National Park
                          Quemada           Tela                                                                                                     Nueva Armenia
                                                       Triunfo de la Cruz                               La Ceiba                     Sambo
                                                                                                                                     Creek                                                  San Antonio                                           Corocito
                                                                                                                                                                   Balfate                                                                                                                                                          Cusuma

                                                                                                                                         Jutiapa

                                                        A T L  N T I D A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sierra Ro Tinto                laya
                                                                                                                                                                         Utila                       Rio Agun                            C O L  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sico       Proposed Forest              Pau
                         Mezapa                                                                   Pico Bonito
                                                                                                  Pico Bonito                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rio
                                                                                                  National Park
                                                                                                  National Park                                                                 Sonaguera                                                                                                      Rio
                                                                                                                                             Nombre de Dios
               Toyos                                                                                                                        Proposed Protected
                                                                                                                                                   Area
                                                               Texiguat
                                                                exiguat
                                                              Protected
                                                              Protected                                                                                                              Sava
                                                                 AreaArea



              90            86           82            78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ro Pltano
18                                                      JAMAICA                                                                                                                                                                                       Sierra de Agalta                                                                          Biosphere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Reserve
MEXICO            BELIZE  Area of map                                                                                                                                                                                                                     National Park


       GUATEMALA

                  HONDURAS                  C a r i b b e a n            Y O R O
14                                                             14                                                                                                               O L A N C H O
        EL SALVADOR                               S e a                                                                                                                                                                                                0       5       10       15      20       25 Kilometers
                          NICARAGUA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0            5             10           15              20         25 Miles

      P A C I F I C
10                               COSTA                         10
                                  RICA         PANAMA                                                                                                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
       O C E A N                                                                        Yoro                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                          COLOMBIA                             87                                                                                                            86                                                                                                                                                   85
              90            86           82

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FEBRUARY 1, 2006

