                                                     47776
InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
        International Development Association


                    HONDURAS
      LANDADMINISTRATION PROJECT
              (CREDITNO.3858-HO)


                  ProgressReport
 Implementationof Management'sAction Plan in
                   Responseto the
      InspectionPanelInvestigationReport




                   March9,2009


                                           HONDURAS
                         LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
                                   (CREDIT NO. 3858-HO)

                                         ProgressReport
                      Implementationof Management's Action Plan


                                             CoNTENTs
ExecutiveSummary.................................................................................      .i

Introduction.,....................................................................................... ,l

Project Background................................................................................    .2

Status of the Implementationof Management's Action Plan................................               .5

Next Steps.,........................................................................................ ,l1



Annexes
Annex 1.       Implementationof CommunicationsStrategy inPilot Indigenous
               Communities

                     ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AFE-COHDEFOR  Administracidn Forestal del Estado- CorporacidnHondurefia de
              Desarrollo Forestal (HonduranAgency for Forest Development)
AMHON         Asociacidn de Municipios de Honduras (Honduran Associationof
              Municipalities)
APL           Adaptable ProgramLoan
BP            Bank Procedures
CONPAH        Confederacidn de PueblosAutdctonos de Honduras ( Honduran
              ConfederationofAutochthonousPeoples)
DCA           DevelopmentCredit Agreement
EA            Environmental Assessment
GEF           Global Environment Facility
FONAC         Foro Nacional de Convergencia (National Forum for Inclusive Dialogue)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
ICF           Instituto de Conservacidn Forestal (Forestry Conservation Institute)
ICR           ImplementationCompletion and Results Report
IDA           International DevelopmentAssociation
IHAH          Znstituto HondureAo deAntropologia e Historia (Honduran Institute of
              Anthropology and History)
IHT           Instituto HondureAo de Turismo (HonduranTourism Institute)
ILO           International Labor Organization
INA           ZnstitutoNacionalAgrario (National Agrarian Institute)
IP            Instituto de la Propiedad (Property Institute)
IPDP          IndigenousPeoples DevelopmentPlan
IPN           InspectionPanel
IPR           IndependentProcurement Review
MASTA         Mosquitia Asla Takanka(Unity of the Mosquitia)
NGO           NongovernmentalOrganization
OD            OperationalDirective
ODECO         Organizacidn de Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario (Organization for Ethno-
              Community Development)
OFRANEH       Organizacidn Fraternal Negra HondureAa (Honduran Black Fraternal
              Organization)
OMS           OperationalManual Statement
OP            OperationalPolicy
PAAR          Proyecto de Administracidn de Areas Rurales (World Bank-finan ed Rural
              Land Management Project)
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PATH          Programa de Administracidn de Tierras de Honduras (Honduras ,and
              Administration Program)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PDO           Project Development Objective
SDR           Special DrawingRights
                              - -
SERNA         Skcretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente (Ministry of Environment and
              Natural Resources)
SGJ           Secretaria de Gobernacidn y Justicia (Ministry of Interior)
SINAP         SistemaNacional deAdministracidn de la Propiedad (National Property
              Administration System)

                                   EXECUTIVE     SUMMARY


        This Progress Report addresses the implementation of the Management Action
Plan endorsed by the Executive Directors following the October 4, 2007 Board
discussion o f the Inspection Panel's investigation o f the Honduras Land Administration
Project (Credit 3858-HO, US$25 million equivalent). The Project, approved in February
2004, is the first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) aimed to modernize the
property rights system through institutional strengthening and land surveying, titling and
registration activities. In line with the latter, the Project includes a small pilot effort to
delimitate and title the lands of selected Garifuna and Miskito communities living in
Honduras' Caribbean Coast. The investigation responded to the request submitted in
January 2006 by the Honduran Black Fraternal Organization (Organizacidn Fraternal
Negra HondureAa or OFRANEH) alleging that the Bank had not taken into consideration
the rights and interests ofthe Garifuna people inthe design, appraisal and implementation
of the Project, and as a result their land rights and collective tenure traditions were under
threat.

        All activities agreed inthe Action Planhave been completed, and this document i s
the last specific report on its implementation. The Project will close in October 2009 and.
the ImplementationCompletion and Results Report (ICR) will include lessons learned on
Project implementation and any additional information needed on the Action Plan. The
second phase o f the Program will likely be submitted to the Board for consideration in
July 2009, and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) will also include any relevant
follow up information.

        In its investigation report, the Panel concluded that the Bank was broadly in
compliance with the policies applicable to the project but that there were instances of
non-compliance related to OD 4.20              (Indigenous Peoples) and OP/BP           13.05
(Supervision). Specifically, the Panel considered that project safeguards were inadequate
to protect Indigenous Peoples' land rights; project consultations mechanisms did not
respond to concerns raised by some organizations and lacked representativeness and
support, in addition to being insufficiently supervised; the Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) did not include all available consultative mechanisms;
indigenous communities were not receiving clear information on land conflict resolution
mechanisms; and that the project was not adequately adjusted to the new legal
circumstances brought about by the Property Law, which was passed five months after
Project approval.

        In line with the Action Plan, the Project has been intensively supervised. A
project restructuring was approved in September 2007 to align it with the institutional
framework created by the new Property Law, and implementation progress is currently
moderately satisfactory. The Bank team has regularly met with pilot indigenous
communities and organizations, including OFRANEH, and a Communications Strategy
has been implemented to inform these communities about the Project, and particularly
about conflict resolution mechanisms. The Project consultative framework has been

strengthened with the activation o f the Inter-Sectoral Commission as a central forum to
coordinate policy and strategy related to the land rights o f indigenous and Afro-Honduran
communities. The two regional committees (mesas regionales) complementing the role
o f the Commission have remained active, and pilot communities are supportive of the
Project. A local consultant was hired to review all relevant aspects o f the new legal
framework. The Operations Manual and IPDP have been updated to ensure consistency
with the new institutional and legal framework, and procedures for delimitation and
titling,o f indigenous peoples' lands have been discussed with the Government and
reflected inthe relevant Project documents.

        No titling o f Garifuna communities' land will take place before the end of the
Project. Going forward, Management will continue to encourage Government to promote
consensus on - and to make the relevant local legal framework more responsive to - the
interests and tenure traditions o f indigenous peoples. At the same time, Management will
continue to help Government address the concerns o f indigenous communities, through
inter alia, policy dialogue, knowledge exchange, analytical activities, and initiatives that
promote their culture and sustainable development. In this respect, the second phase o f
the Program will likely include support for Miskito communities, none o f which has thus
far managed to obtain titles to their lands while facing increased development pressure
and the advance o f the agricultural frontier.




                                              ..
                                              11

    ProgressReportto the Boardof ExecutiveDirectorson the Implementationof
Management'sAction Planin Responseto the InspectionPanelInvestigationReport
                            on the HondurasLandAdministration Project

Introduction

1.        On January 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel (hereafter referred to as "the Panel")
registered a Request for Inspection, IPN request RQ06/1 ("the Request"), concerning the
Honduras Land Administration Project (Programa de Administracidn de Tierras de
Honduras or PATH, "the Project") partially financed by the International Development
Association (IDA)' through Credit 3858-HO. The Request had been submitted by the
Honduran Black Fraternal Organization (Organizacidn Fraternal Negra Hondureiia or
OFRANEH) on behalf o f the Garifuna population of Honduras. In the Request,
OFRANEH alleged that the Bank had not taken into consideration the rights and interests
of the Garifuna people in the design, appraisal and implementation of the Project, and
that as a result, land titling and other procedures under the Project would ultimately cause
the loss of their rights over parts of their Ethnic Lands,2 as well as the demise o f
collective property in favor o f individual property. Specifically, OFRANEH claimed that
the Bank had violated OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, OP/BP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment, OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats and OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision.

2.        The Bank's Board of Executive Directors authorized the investigationon May 30,
2006. On June 12, 2007, the Panel submittedto the Board its report outlining the findings
o f the investigation on the Project (Investigation Report No.39933-HN). The Panel
concluded that the Bank was broadly in compliance with the policies applicable to the
project but that there were instances o f non-compliance related to OD 4.20 and OP/BP
13.05, as it considered that (i)Project safeguards were inadequate to protect indigenous
peoples' land rights; (ii)         Project consultation mechanisms were not adjusted to concerns
raised and lacked representativeness and support due to the non-participation of key
Garifuna organizations, namely OFRANEH and the Organization for Ethno-Community
Development (Organizacidn de Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario or ODECO); (iii)The
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) did not paid adequate attention to the
Inter-Sectoral Commission as a consultative mechanism; (iv) There was lack o f clarity on
and weak dissemination o f information on land conflict resolution mechanisms available
to indigenous communities; (v) The Project was not adequately adjusted to changed legal
circumstances; and (vi) There was insufficient supervision of Project consultation
mechanisms. In addition, the Panel made a number of observations in order to assist in
the implementation of the Project. These observations concerned the consultation with
Garifuna communities during Project implementation, the rights o f Garifuna communities
in relation to protected areas, and the legal framework for protecting Garifuna people's
rights under the Project.

' Since IDA is part of the World Bank Group, the terms "Bank" and "IDA" are used interchangeably throughout this
*ProgressReport.
  Following the International Labor Organization (ILO) 169 Convention, of which Honduras is a signatory. Ethnic
Lands are defined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for the Project as: "those lands that have been
ancestrally and historically settled by Amerindian groups and/or Afro-Honduran communities for their use and that
constitute their habitat on which they undertake their traditional productive and cultural practices."

3.        On August 3, 2007, Management submitted its Report and Recommendations in
Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report (Management Report INSP/39933-
HN), which included Management's proposed Action Plan ("the Action Plan") for
addressing the Panel's findings.

4.        On October 4, 2007, the Board discussed both the Inspection Panel and the
Management reports, endorsed the proposed Action Plan, and requested Management to
report back on its implementation progress. The present report has been prepared in
response to this Boardrequest.

Project Background

5.        Project Description. The Project was approved by the Bank's Board on February
26, 2004 and became effective on December 2, 2004. Current Credit closing date is
October 30, 2009. The total Project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$38.9 million, to
be financed through an IDA Credit of SDR16.9 million (US$25 million equivalent), a
Nordic Development Fund Credit of EUR6 million (US$7.9 million equivalent), and a
contribution from the Republic of Honduras (The Borrower) (US$6.0 million). As of
February 2009, the IDA Credit has been largely disb~rsed.~

6.        The Project is the first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to help
modernize land administration inH~nduras.~                   The specific Project Development Objective
(PDO) is to establish and operate an integrated and decentralized land administration
system, composed o f public and private entities, which provides users in the Project area
with accurate information on urban and rural land parcels and effective land
administration services in a timely and cost-effective manner. Three components support
the achievement of the PDO: (i)at the national level, development of the policy
framework and institutional strengthening to support the establishment and operation of
the National Property Administration System (SisternaNacional de Administracidn de la
Propiedad or SINAP) (US$10.9 million); (ii)                    in specific areas of the country, systematic
land regularization, titling, and registration (US$22.7 million);'                               and (iii)Project
management, monitoring and evaluation (US$5.3 million).

7.       Approximately five percent o f Project resources are allocated to the pilot efforts
for delimitation and titling of Ethnic Lands under Component 2. The Panel Inspection
Investigation relates to the sub-set of these activities focused on pilot Garifuna
communities. Currently, seven Garifuna communities, located in the departments of
Atlkntida and Colon, are included in the Projecta6The remaining resources are aimed at
pilot Miskito communities inthe department of Gracias a Dios.



  Remaining funds include: those still in the Project's Special Account, which was initially established with US$2,5
million; expected counterpart funds of Lp.24 million (US$1.3 million); and all the funds from NDF, which are
financing an international contract for surveying and aerial photography that will be completed by December 2009 (the
closing date of NDF's Credit).
  A second phase is under preparation, with a likely Board date of July 2009 (see Paragraph 18).
  Regularization is the process through which a land parcel'sphysical location and tenure status are analyzed and
formalized through document review and on-site verification
  There were eight pilot communities initially, but one community decided not to continue participating in the Project.


                                                           2

8.        Project Status. After significant delays from late 2005 to early 2007,7 Project
performance has improved, especially in the last 18 months. The Project was
restructured, transferring it from the Ministry o f Interior (Secretaria de Gobernacidn y
Justicia, or SGJ) to the Property Institute(Instituto de la Propiedad, or IP),' and currently
implementation progress is rated moderately satisfactory. Major advances are evident in
regularization in rural and urban areas, benefitting approximately 210,000 families;
development of SINAP and modernization o f property registries which has reduced
registry transaction time and costs; demarcation o f protected areas; and strengthening o f
fiduciary oversight and of the Project Coordination Unit's (PCU) fiduciary capacity. This
last advance reflects implementation o f an Action Plang agreed with the Borrower to
respond to fiduciary weaknesses that resulted in an INT investigation in November
2006.10Currently, both financial management and procurement under the Project are
rated moderately satisfactory.

9.        Update on Regularizationin Ethnic Lands. No ethnic lands have thus far been
titled under the Project. As noted in the Management Report, delimitation and titling
could not be started until the Regularization Manual for Ethnic Lands had received the
Bank's no objection and the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) had been
updated. Following a participatory preparation process of over 15 months, the final draft
Manual was submitted to the Bank in March 2008. The IPDP was updated following six
months of consultations that were prolonged by a concerted effort to engage OFRANEH
in the process as well as a national emergency in October 2008 due to heavy rains and
floods. In January 2009, the Bank gave its no objection to the Manual and the updated
IPDP. Soon afterward, preparatory activities for delimitation of lands in pilot Miskito
communities were started. Responding to a request from the pilot Garifuna communities,
preparation activities for a detailed diagnostic of their current tenure situation are also
underway. However, no titling o f Garifuna communities' lands will take place before the
endof the Project.

10.       Public awareness and social mobilization activities, including implementation of
the Communications Strategy (see Annex 1 for details), have continued and the regional
and local committees (Mesas Regionales and Mesas Locales) have remained active.                                     ''

'This period includedthe Presidentialelectionsof December 2005 and the Governmenttransition in 2006.
 Project restructuringwas approvedby the Regional Vice-president on September 24, 2007. The restructuring updated
project implementation arrangements to reflect the current national legal and institutional framework, and modified
selected outputs related to Component 2 (details of the restructuring are included in Report No. 41915-HN -
RestructuringProject Paper). The Credit amendment reflecting the restructuringwas signed by the Country Director on
October 4, 2007 and counter-signedby the Borrower on October23, 2007.
  The Action Plan has included, inter alia, (i) reorganization o f the PCU's Fiduciary Unit; (ii) contracting of new
personnel, with Bank's no objection, for financial management and procurement (both, the new Coordinator for the
Fiduciary Unit and the Sr. ProcurementOfficer, as well as the rest of the fiduciary staff, have been found by the Bank
Team to have the experience and capacity to work in the implementation of a Bank-financed project); (iii) revising
administrative processes (including financial management and procurement) to reflect organizational and procedural
changes; and (iv) improved internal controls.
IoThe INT investigation looked at fraudulent practices in 2004 and 2005, when the Project was under a different
Implementing Agency and PCU. INT identified several instances of misprocurement which led to the cancellation o f
Credit funds totaling US$750,500.20equivalent. The IndependentProcurementReview (IPR) carried out in May-June
2008 did not find any major issues relatedto procurementunder the Project.
" There are two Mesas Regionales under the project, one Mesa Regional Garijiuna and one Mesa Regional Miskita.
The Mesa Regional Garijiuna is open to a broad range of Garifuna stakeholders including Patronatos, church groups


                                                         3

These mesas complement other Project consultative mechanisms such as the Inter-
Sectoral Commissionfor Protecting Land Rights of Garllfuna and Miskito Communities`2
and bilateral dialogue with interested organizations. ODECO and the Unity of Mosquitia
(Mosquitia Asla Takanka or MASTA), the umbrella organization of the Miskitos, are
participating in the Mesas Regionales and are supportive of the Project. ODECO and
MASTA have also been participating in the Inter-Sectoral Commission, which was
activated by the Government to strengthen the consultation framework of the Project. The
Communications Strategy, which was revised as part of the Action Plan, has helped to
promote a more educational approach on Project activities, benefits and processes, and to
inform pilot communities about conflict resolution mechanisms.

11.       The Bank team has met several times with OFRANEH during the implementation
of the Management Action Plan. These meetings have provided a better understanding of
the organization's concerns regarding the Project and the needs of the Garifuna
communities more generally. Despite a concerted engagement effort, difficulties continue
in the interaction between OFRANEH and the Government. OFRANEH remains
concerned with the potential impact of project activities on Garifuna communities,
particularly given that it considers that several articles of the 2004 Property Law dealing
with regularization in Ethnic Lands (included in Chapter 3 of Title V) do not fully
support the land rights of indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples. Moreover, OFRANEH
does not agree with the need to have the Mesa Regional Garfuna as part of the Project's
consultative framework. In light o f these concerns, OFRANEH has declined invitations
to participate in the Mesa Regional and in the Project-related meetings of the Inter-
Sectoral Commission. OFRANEH also declined to participate in the formal review and
comment process for the Regularization Manual for Ethnic Lands and updated IPDP.

12.       Both the Bank and the Government have a good working relationship with
MASTA and the Mesa Regional Miskita. While most of the Garifuna communities had
titles to their lands before the Project started, Miskito communities have not managed to
obtain titles to any o f their lands. These lands, at the same time, are coming under
increasing pressure due to the expansion of the agricultural frontier and agribusiness
interests. In this respect, for Miskito communities the Project represents a historic
opportunity not only to protect their land rights but also their culture.




and others. In addition, Mesas Locales have been established to promote grassroots-level participation by individual
pilot communities. In Honduras, the Patronato is a local social organizationthat can officially and legally represent a
given community, and is comprisedby members o f the same community.
12The Inter-SectoralCommission, chaired by the National Agrarian Institute (Instituto Nacional Agrario or INA) was
established by a Presidential Decree in 2001 as a consultative mechanism at the central level. It is made up of
Government entities and of indigenous and Afro-Honduran organizations. Government agencies include IP, SGJ. the
Forestry Conservation Institute (Instituto de Conservacidn Forestal or ICF), the Honduran Institute of Anthropology
and History (Instituto HondureAo de Antropologia e Historia or IHAH) and the Honduran Tourism Institute (Institufo
HondureAo de Turismo or IHT). Indigenous and Afro-Honduran organizations include OFRANEH, ODECO and
MASTA. The Honduran Confederation of Autochthonous Peoples (Confederacidn de Pueblos Autdctonos de
Honduras, or CONPAH), an umbrella organization o f indigenous peoples organizations in the country, and the
Association of Honduran Municipalities (Asociacibn de Municipios de Honduras, or AMHON) were invited and
accepted to join the Commissionas a member and an observer, respectively.OFRANEH participated in the meetingo f
the Inter-SectoralCommission o f July 12, 2007, soon after the Commissionwas activated by the Government, but has
declined to participate afterwards.


                                                         4

13.      Encouraged by the Bank, the Government plans to undertake an awareness-
building and discussion strategy regarding Chapter 3, Title V of the 2004 Property Law
and its eventual regulation. l3Implementation of this strategy should help to address
OFRANEH's          and other organizations'            concerns regarding the Property Law.
Management will support Government efforts in this respect, helping to promote a
trusting environment where indigenous and Afro-Honduran organizations and relevant
government agencies can have a productive dialogue. Moreover, as Project consultations
proceed, additional suggestions for Project implementation will be given proper
consideration. The Project's consultative framework for the second phase will reflect
lessons learned during the first phase and the views of target beneficiaries.

14.      In general, reputational and implementation risks remain substantial due to
several factors: determining the level o f representativeness of indigenous and Afro-
Honduran organizations i s            a major challenge, especially because of internal
disagreements and diverging interests across communities; powerful interests influence
the level of political will and often exacerbate internal rivalries; and, importantly, the
Borrower faces fiscal and capacity constraints to meet the aspirations and demands of
indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities.

Status of the Implementationof Management'sAction Plan

15.      The Action Planhas been implementedwith full Government support. Progress to
date i s detailed inTable 1below.

                                                Table 1
                 Status of the Implementationof Management'sAction Plan

 Relevant ODI OP                         reed Action
   1                  ~                  s               --~
I.OD4.20     -INDICE    OUS PEOPLES
a. Nature of Project     1. Continue enforcing the legal            The project is being implementedin
Safeguards to           framework for the Project(including         conformity with its legal framework.
Protect Indigenous      DCA and other instrumentssuch as            Currently all legal covenants are in
Peoples' Land           Operations Manual and IPDP).                compliance.This compliance is
Rights                                                              regularly monitored through intensive
                                                                    supervision.The supervision budget for
                                                                    the Projectreflectsthis commitment: In
                                                                    FY08, Project supervision cost was
                                                                    US$298,935(BB) and US$77,750
                                                                    (BB-FAO); in FY09, it has so far
                                                                    totaled US$138,258 (BB) and
                                                                    US$31,000 (BB-FAO).Overall, for
                                                                    FY09 Management provided initially
                                                                    30 percent of resources over the regular
                                                                    supervisionbudget, and will continue
                                                                    to provide resources to ensure adequate
                                                                    Project supervision.



l3To help promotethe consultationprocess,Government (throughIP and the PCU)has signed a cooperation agreement
with the NationalForumfor InclusiveDialogue(ForoNacionalde Convergencia, or FONAC).


                                                     5

                             Agreed Acriori

                2. Take prompt action, under the DCA,
                -----                                     Management has met this commitment
                        I     _-_I--   .-_I_-



                should events threaten compliancewith     through intensive supervisionand close
                Project safeguards or other legal         follow up, with a ProjectTeam
                covenants.                                including an EnvironmentalSpecialist
                                                          and two Social Scientists.Emerging
                                                          issueshave been promptly identified
                                                          and addressed.No major events
                                                          threateningcompliancewith Project
                                                          safeguards or other legal covenants
                                                          have materializedduring the
                                                          implementationof the Action Plan.
                                                          Currently, all legal covenants are under
                                                          compliance.

                1. Facilitate evaluationand clarification The Inter-SectoralCommission,
Consultation    of the respectiverolesof the Inter-       integratedby government agencies and
Mechanisms      Sectoral Commissionand the Mesa           indigenousand Afro-Honduran
                Regional Garquna as complementary         organizations,has met nine times
                Projectconsultationmechanisms.            during the implementationof the
                                                          Action Plan, most recently in Februarq
                                                          2009. The Commissionhas made good
                                                          progress discussing project
                                                          implementationconcerns and clarifying
                                                          its role inrelation to the Mesas.
                                                          Specifically, it is broadly agreed that (i)
                                                          the Commissionhas a mandateto
                                                          protectthe landrights of indigenous
                                                          and Afro-descendantpeoples at the
                                                          national level by, inter alia, promoting
                                                          policy dialogue and helping coordinate
                                                          land programs, projects and initiatives;
                                                          and (ii) the Mesas Kegionales are
                                                          specific local consultative mechanisms
                                                          established under the Projectto
                                                          facilitate participation of pilot
                                                          communities in Projectactivities.This
                                                          understandinghas beenreflectedin
                                                          relevant Projectdocuments.




                                              6

2. Ensurethat the roles and    , ,  , , , , ,, .


responsibilitiesof the Inter-Sectoral           and responsibilitiesof the Commission
Commissionand the Mesa Regional                 and the Mesas, the Bank team has
Garfina, as complementaryProject                attended three meetings of the Inter-
consultationmechanisms, are clarified           Sectoral Commission.The Bank Team
and consistent with applicable Bank             has also met with the Mesas Regionales
safeguard policies                              Garifunaand Miskita during missions.
                                                The Bankteam has also helped
                                                Governmentreview the Statutes o f the
                                                Mesas and the PresidentialDecree that
                                                createdthe Commission.Through this
                                                process, it has been clarified that,
                                                consistent with Bank policy, the Mesas
                                                constituteone of the broad-based
                                                consultationmechanisms under the
                                                Project, complementingthe mesas
                                                locales establishedat the community
                                                level and bilateral engagement of
                                                interested organizations.
3. Evaluate and issue a no objection to         The RegularizationManual for Ethnic
the RegularizationManual for Ethnic             Lands was officially submittedto the
Lands, submittedby the Inter-Sectoral           Bank by the Inter-SectoralCommission
Commission                                      in November 2008. The draft Manual,
                                                which followed a consultationprocess
                                                started in October 2006, had been
                                                finalized in March 2008. To ensure
                                                consistency, the Bank decided to wait
                                                until the IPDP had beenupdated to
                                                give its no objectionto the Manual.
                                                After reviewing both documents, the no
                                                objectionswere issued in January 2009.
4. Ensure, ifthe RegularizationManual           The Borrower updated the Operations
for Ethnic Lands and related conflict-          Manual, which receivedthe Bank's no
resolutionmechanisms are approved,              objection in January 2009. The IPDP
that Government will: (i)revise the             was updated through a six-month
Project's Operations Manual and IPDP            consultationprocess from May to
incorporatingthe approved procedures;           November2008, and receivedno
and (ii) implementthe Communications            objection in Januai-j 2009. At the same
Strategy to inform potential Project            time, the Borrower has been
beneficiaries about the approved                implementinga Communications
procedures and the associated support           Strategy in pilot Garifuna and Miskito
mechanisms availableto them through             communities (see Annex 1 for details).
the Project.
5. Ensurethat semi-annual supervision           Duringthe implementationo f the
will include meetings with members o f          Action Plan, the Bank team has
the Inter-SectoralCommission.                   participatedin three meetings of the
                                                Inter-SectoralCommission.The Bank
                                                team has also met separately during
                                                missionswith the Minister of INA,
                                                who chairs the Commission, and with
                                                MASTA, ODECO and OFRANEH, the
                                                indigenousand Afro-Honduran
                                                organizationsthat are members of the
                                                Commission.


                             7

                                                                                ._._-         .       -
                                                                                      I -.....
  Relevant OD / OP-                                                   Implcnieiitatiori Yrogresc
                                                                            February 2009
                      1. Update IPDP and Operations manual    The Operations Manual has been         II_




 Inter-Sectoral       to reflect the existence of the Inter-  revised,and the IPDP updated to
 Commission in        Sectoral Commission.                     ensure consistency with the new
                                                               institutionalAega1framework, including
                                                              the existence of the Inter-Sectoral
                                                               Commission.The updated IPDP is
                                                              posted inthe webpage of the Project,
                                                               and copies have been sent to the Mesus
                                                               Regionales, all members of the Inter-
                                                               Sectoral Commission, and to the
                                                               Project office inPuertoLempira.

                       1 . Support. with Government, meetings  The Inter-SectoralCommission has mct
 resolution           ofthe Inter-SectoralCommissionto         and discussedProject implementation
 Mechanisms           discuss Project implementation,          and conflict-resolution mechanisms.
                      consistent with the DCA and applicable   The mechanisms are reflected in the
                      Bankpolicies. Inparticular,the Inter-    updated IPDP and the Regularization
                      Sectoral Commissionis expected to        Manual for Ethnic Lands.
                      discuss different conflict-resolution
                      mechanisms available under current
                      Honduranlegislation and propose
                      specific actions inthe context of the
                      Project
                      2. Closely supervise the complementary The Bank team has closely folloMed up
                      roles o f the Inter-SectoralCommission   the activities of the Inter-Sectoral
                      and Mesa RegionalGarifuna inrelation     Commissionand the Mesus Regionales
                      to conflict-resolution                   Garifuna and Miskita Since no
                                                               delimitation activities have taken place
                                                               in the pilot Garifuna communities, and
                                                               these have only recently started in the
                                                               pilot Miskito communities, the need for
                                                               usingthe conflict resolution
                                                               mechanisms has not yet emerged.
                      3. Ensurethat the findings of the legal  The legal analysis mentionedunder
                      analysis mentionedunder Project          Project Supervisionbelow and
                      Supervisionbelow and agreements          agreements reachedwithin the Inter-
                      reachedwithin the Inter-Sectoral         Sectoral Commissionguided the
                      Commissionwill guide the                 updatingof the IPDP and Operations
                      development of an updated IPDP and       Manual.The updated IPDP describe
                      Operations Manual with respect to        the conflict-resolution mechanisms
                      Project-sponsoredregularizationof        availableto the indigenous and Afro-
                      Ethnic Lands.                            descendant communities accordingto
                                                               the current legal framework. This
                                                               section was prepared with assistance
                                                               from a local legal expert.

i2. OPJBP 13.05 PR!
                -                                                                          ll__lll "I



 a. Supervision of                          ed supervision by  Five specializedmissions including a
 Project consultation Senior Social Scientist at least twice   qualified Social Scientist have taken
 Mechanisms           annually.                                place during the implementation o f the
                                                               Action Plan: September 2007; January
                                                               (Mid-term Project Review), July, and
                                                               August-September2008; and January
                                                               2009.

                                                                                                 _II-I__-




                                                                                           "---_ - --"
                                                             A full-time local Social Scientist was
                    Scientist in the Honduras Country        hired and is providing close follow up
                    Office devoted exclusively to            on IndigenousPeoples issues and
                    IndigenousPeoples issues                 Project consultations.
                    3. Closely supervise activities carried  See above. Continuouscommitment
                    out by the Inter-SectoralCommission      beingmet through intensive
                    and the Mesa Regional Garifuna.          supervision and close management
                                                             follow up.

                    4. Review Governmentefforts to           The Bank team has reviewed
                    promote community participation in       Government efforts to promote
                    Project-relatedactivities.               community participation in Project-
                                                             related activities. The local Social
                                                             Scientist has closely followed up
                                                             community participation under the
                                                             Projectthrough, inter alia, attending
                                                             community meetings and field visits.
                    1.a. Hire a Honduranlawyer to review     A local lawyer was hired to conduct the
Adjusted to         all relevant aspects of new legal        review. A consultation workshop to
Changes in Legal    framework inHonduras, especiallyas it    discuss findings with government took
Framework for       relates to indigenouspeoples' land       place inMarch 2008. A first draft
consistency with OD rights                                   report was prepared inAugust 2008, a
4.20                                                         reviseddraft finalized in October 2008,
                                                             and a Final Report submittedto the
                                                             Bank inJanuary 2009. Usingthe
                                                             review as a basis, an Institutional
                                                             Analysis was also carried out to help
                                                             clarify roles of the various agencies
                                                              dealing with land rights in Honduras

                    1.b. Review with Government the           Procedures for regularizationof Ethnic
                    procedures for regularizationof Ethnic    Lands have been discussedwith
                    Lands, to ensure they are compatible      Governmentand reflectedin the
                    with relevant Bank safeguards            Manual for Regularizationof Ethnic
                                                             Lands. The Manual receivedthe
                                                             Bank's no objection in January 2009.
                    1.c. Work with Government to update      The Operations Manual has been
                   the Operations Manual and IPDP and, if revised.The IPDP has also been
                    necessary,encourage Government to        updated to ensure consistency with the
                    issue regulations or by other means,      institutional/legal framework.
                    reduce ambiguities, minimize             Management has encouraged
                    inconsistencies, and in general make the Governmentto promote further
                   relevant local legal framework one        consensus on the legal framework for
                   which allows for regularizationof         regularizationof ethnic lands.
                    Ethnic Lands through consultative and     Specifically, the Government plans to
                    conflict-resolution processesthat fairly undertake an awareness-buildingand
                   take the interests of indigenousand       discussionstrategy regardingChapter
                   Afro-Honduran peoples into account, in     3, Title V of the 2004 Property Law
                    a manner which i s compatible with       and its eventual regulation.
                   relevant Bank safeguards.




                                                 9

                                                                                                 --
                                                                                          1-1 "-
                                 Agreed Action                              entrttion Progress
                                                                            --
                                                                            bruary 2001)
                   I-
                    2. Ifnecessary,further restructure and  A projectrestructuring was approved
                    alignthe Project with the new legal     in September 2007 to align it with the
                    framework, includingreachingan           institutionalframework createdby the
                    agreementwith Government on             new law. Indemnificationof third
                    possible measuresrelatedto the          parties who hold annullable titles in
                    indemnificationofthird parties who      Ethnic Lands has not yet been required
                    hold annullable titles inEthnic Lands.  underthe Project. Shouldit become
                                                            necessary,however, the Bank will
                                                            renew its discussionswith the
                                                             Governmentto seek agreementon
                                                            possible measures,


3, OTHER RELEVA T ACTIONS 'r0ENHANCE PROJEC 'The              IMPACT
a. Communications   1. Supervise implementation of                Communications Strategy was
Strategy            Communications Strategyto inform        revised with advice from the
                    beneficiary communities about the        Communications Specialist, the Social
                    Project.                                 Scientist, and the Local Indigenous
                                                             Peoples Specialist.Strategy
                                                             implementation has been intensivel)
                                                             supervised. The Communications
                                                             Specialist supervised implementation
                                                             inSeptemberandNovember2007;
                                                             January, June, September and
                                                            November 2008; and January 2009.
                                                             Periodic teleconferencesare also
                                                             carried out to ensure close follow up.
                                                             At the same time, the Mesas
                                                             Regionales Garifuna and Miskita have
                                                            been actively involvedin the validation
                                                            processof the strategy and of
                                                             communicationmaterials. (SeeAnnex
                                                             1 for details)
b. Implementation   1. Conduct semi-annual specialized       Five specialized missions including an
o f Process         supervision by an Environmental          EnvironmentalSpecialist have taken
Framework;          Specialist to ensure compliance with the place: September2007; January (Mid-
Designation of More Process Framework                       term Project Review), May, and
Protected Areas                                              September 2008; and January 2009.
                                                             The Process Framework itself has not
                                                            been applied yet given that Project
                                                             activitieshave not been found to result
                                                             in any restrictionof access.
                    2. Ensurethat Government preparesan      The MPA was preparedand received
                    acceptableManual for ProtectedAreas     no objectionfrom the Bank in March
                    (MPA). Demarcationof ProtectedAreas 2008. Demarcation of protectedareas is
                    will not start until Bank gives no      underway.
                    objectionto this Manual.
                    3 , Ensurethat ProtectedAreas targeted  The MPA includes community
                   under the Projectbenefit from the         consultation and participation
                    support of local communities.           processes.The demarcation process has
                                                            beenclosely supervised by the Bank.




                                                 10

Next Steps

 16.       Management has implemented all items in the Action Plan. The Credit has been
now largely disbursed and the Project is being implemented moderately satisfactorily.                               '
Intensive supervision will continue until the Project closes in October 2009, and during
the next phase, which is likely to be presentedfor the Bank Board's consideration inJuly
2009. Under the Project, management remains committed to maximizing opportunities
for the participation o f pilot communities, in accordance with principles established in
Bank safeguards (in particular the policy on Indigenous Peoples); and providing the
support necessary for the Inter-Sectoral Commission to serve as a central Project
consultation forum.

 17.       Going forward, Management will continue to encourage Government to promote
consensus on - and to make the relevant local legal framework more responsive to - the
interests and tenure traditions of indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples. At the same
time, management will continue to help Government address the concerns of the
indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities through policy dialogue, knowledge
exchange, analytical activities, and initiatives that promote their culture and sustainable
development.l4

18.        The Program's second phase i s likely to continue supporting the strengthening of
land rights o f indigenous peoples. If included, delimitation and titling would focus on
Miskito communities, none of which have managed to obtain titles to their lands. These
communities are supportive o f the Project and the Government has confirmed its interest
in working with them to ensure that their land rights are adequately recognized. In
addition, pilot communities during the second phase would receive technical assistance
and capacity building, which would include, inter alia, education on property rights,
strengthening o f local organizations, legal advice and small productive projects.

19.        Management is concluding reporting on the implementation of the Action Plan,
but will continue to follow up on its key issues. The Project's Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR) will include lessons learned and any additional
information needed on the Action Plan. When the second phase of the Program is
presented for the Board's consideration, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) will
discuss the progress on outcomes of the first phase, and will also include, as needed,
follow-up information on relevant activities related to the Action Plan.




l4Examples of these activities include, inter alia, (i) the Regional Workshop of Land Programs held in August 2008 in
Peten, Guatemala, where agencies across Central America exchanged experience and knowledge, including on the
efforts to regularize Ethnic Lands; (ii) the ongoing policy work on land policy and programs in Central America,
including an analysis on the regional experience on recognizing indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples' land rights:
and (iii) implementation of an Norwegian Trust Fund (NTF) proposal to promote sustainable community tourism in
indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities in the Caribbeanregions of Hondurasand Nicaragua.


                                                            11


                                          Annex 1
   Implementationof CommunicationsStrategy in PilotIndigenousCommunities


Backgroundon CommunicationsStrategy

1.     A Communications Strategy was prepared in early 2007, overseen by a
Communications Specialist from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and inconsultation
with Government and local beneficiaries. This strategy included: (i)distribution of
posters and calendars informing potential beneficiaries about the project; (ii)distribution
of pamphlets and brochures with key messages on the Project; and (iii)    bil1,boardsabout
the project placed strategically in project areas. A specific set of these activities were
targeted to pilot Indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities.

2.     The Strategy was revised between August and October o f 2007 to promote a more
educational approach on Project activities, benefits and processes, and to align it better
with the Project's communication needs and challenges. Moreover, as part of the
implementation of the Management Action Plan, a Bank mission visited the project in
November 2007 and worked with the project's Communication and Ethnic Affairs
Coordinators on an Action Planthat started being implementedinDecember 2007.

Implementation of Communications Strategy for Pilot Indigenous and Afro-
HonduranCommunities

3.     Implementation o f the communication strategy in pilot indigenous and Afro-
Honduran communities has included two main types o f activities: radio programs and
printedmaterials.

4.     Radio programs. Broadcasting of the radio programs started in December 2007.
They include a one-hour weekly live program on Saturdays and 45-second radio spots
throughout the week announcing the program on Winanka Radio, for Miskito
Communities, and on Radio Catdlica for Garifuna communities, with an additional 30-
minute summary of the program broadcast on Radio Catdlica during the week. The
programs are conducted by a local communication facilitator, based on scripts prepared
by the Project's Communication Coordinator. They include as much as possible `voices
from the communities,' either through the participation o f interviewees (e.g. members of
the local or regional Mesas, leaders of local communities, etc.), or through call-ins from
the audience. Project staff and the Minister o f INA have also participated in the programs
to explain certain aspects o f the Project (e.g. the community titling model in the
Moskitia). Facilitators regularly report to the Communication Coordinator through audio
recordings of the weekly programs, as well as monthly reports on the programs
conducted and topics discussed, participation of interviewees in the programs, and the
types o f questions and comments received through call-ins from the audience. Programs
are conducted in Spanish and in the local languages, to maximize reach and
understanding of the contents.




                                             12

5.      Radio programs have been presenting and exploring a variety o f topics related to
the project, its activities, processes and relevant institutions. These have included, for
example, the steps o f the titling process, the Regularization Manual for Ethnic Lands, the
various institutions involved and their role (e.g. Inter-Sectoral Commission, Mesas
Regionales), the conflict resolution mechanisms, project activities in the framework of
the UN Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries,
environmental education on the benefits and limitations posed by the Protected Areas
within the pilot Indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities, definition o f key concepts
o f the Project and the process, as well as gender equity aspects.

6.      The Bank has seen evidence o f the positive impact o f the programs and the
importance they have gained among local communities. Given limited communications
infrastructure in the region, programs are used as a means o f communication among local
representatives (e.g. to call for meetings o f the Mesas Regionales); they have also
contributed to further clarify certain project activities (e.g. the scope o f the Diagnostic
Study to be carried out in pilot Garifuna communities). Additionally, inviting the
communities to call-in gives them a channel to communicate with the project and to voice
their concerns, and request clarifications regarding land tenure issues. The questions and
concerns are taken as inputsto improve the clarity and quality o f future program scripts.

7.      Printed materials. Printed materials complement the radio programs by focusing
on two main aspects: (i)the Project and the activities to be carried out in the short-term in
the pilot communities, the steps o f the process and how they will benefit the
communities, and additional sources o f information on the project inthe area (e.g. contact
o f the Mesa Regional, P A T H or INA, as well as information about the schedule and radio
frequency o f the radio programs); and (ii)   the conflict resolution mechanisms, the types
o f conflicts that can be resolved through them, and the relevant institutions in each
particular case. Given their more permanent character, the messages relayed through
printed materials must focus on confirmed activities or processes, Therefore, the
preparation o f the brochure about the conflict resolution mechanisms was in stand-by
until the updated Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) and the Regularization
Manual for Ethnic Lands, which include a description o f these mechanisms, had been
validated through consultations. Materials have been printed in both Spanish and the
local languages. They also integrate a gender perspective.

8.      Printed materials have been subject to a thorough review process within the Bank
(including the Communications Specialist, as well as the Social, Indigenous Peoples and
Gender Specialists), and a validation process among Indigenous and Afro-Honduran
representatives (including the Mesas Regionales). Printed materials related to the project
and its activities are disseminated in the communities in coordination with the local
organizations and representatives. See examples below.




                                              13

Bank Supervisionof the CommunicationStrategy

9.     The Bank has closely supervised the implementation of the strategy through
missions (September and November, 2007; January, June, September and November,
2008; and January 2009) and regular audio-conferences with the Communication and
Ethnic Affairs Coordinators. The Bank's Communications Specialist, incollaboration
with the Social, Indigenous Peoples, and Gender Specialists, has been providing
continuous advice and guidance on the definition of the contents of the radio
programs and printed materials, as well as on the dissemination mechanisms for the
materials.

10.    Progress has been generally satisfactory. Preparation of the printedmaterials
advanced adequately although relatively slowly due to the need to ensure that they
were finalized through a participatory process. This process has specifically ensured
the adequacy of the language, effectiveness of the contents and ownership of the
strategy.  Overall,  the extended preparation        and  implementation     o f the
Communications Strategy has contributed to strengthening the relationship between
the Project and membersof the Mesas and o f the pilot communities in general.

Follow-upActions

11.    The Bank's Communications Specialist has supervised the planning of the
2009 Project budget to ensure that the Communications Strategy i s fully implemented
inthe pilot communities, includingcomplementary printedmaterials and activities.




                                           14

