                               Documentof
                              The World Bank

                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                    48702



                             PROJECTPAPER


                         ONRESTRUCTURINGTHE


              HONDURAS: LANDADMINISTRATION PROJECT




                             September 13,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


                         Honduras LandAdministrationProject
                         ProposedRestructuringand Extension
                                ProjectPaper DataSheet



Date: September 13,2007                        Team Leader:    EnriquePantoja
Country: Honduras                              Sector Manager: EthelSennhauser
Project Name: LandAdministration Project Country Director: Jane Armitage
Project ID:PO55991                             Environmental Category: B




Does the restructuredProject require any exceptions to Bank policies?    No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                             n/a
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?             d a




RevisedProject development objective/outcomes: n/a
Does the restructured Project trigger any new safeguardpolicies?       L No
                                  Financinp Plan (US$m)
                   Source                     I   Local    I  Foreigfl   I   Total


Others


                        HondurasLandAdministrationProject
                        ProposedRestructuringandExtension
                                    Contents


I. IntroductoryStatement

11.    BackgroundandReasonsfor Extension

111.   Proposedchanges

IV.    Analysis

V.     ExpectedOutcomes

VI.    BenefitsandRisks


List of Annexes:

Annex 1-OverviewofOutputIndicatorAdjustments                 9
Annex 2 -ProjectResults: OutcomeandOutputIndicators          13

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective September 13,2007)
                          Currency Unit = US$
                                US$1.OO     = HonduranLempira 19.15
                   1Honduran Lempira = US$O.OS
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1      - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Loan
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
GOH    Government o f Honduras
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IP     Property Institute (Instituto de la Propiedad)
NDF    Nordic Development Fund
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PDO    Project Development Objective
SGJ    Ministryo fInterior(Secretaria de Gobernacihy Justicia)
SEFIN  MinistryofFinance (Secretaria de Finanzasy CrCdito Publico)
SINAP  NationalProperty Administration System (Sistema Nacionalde la Administracih
       de la Propiedad)
SINIT  National Territorial Information System (Sistema Nacionalde Informacih
       Territorial)     '
SINREC Integrated RegistryCadastre System (Sistema Integrado de Registro y Catastro)
SURE   UnifiedRegistries System (Sistema Unificado de Registros)
UNDP   UnitedNations Development Program




                         Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                      Country Director:         Jane Armitage
                        Sector Manager:         EthelSennhauser
                     Task Team Leader:          Enrique Pantoja


                                  HondurasLandAdministration Project
                                    ProjectRestructuringand Extension
                                                   ProjectPaper


I. IntroductoryStatement

1.        This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Regional Vice President to introduce the
changes described below in the Honduras Land Administration Project (the Project,
P055991) and amend the Project's Development Credit Agreement (Credit 3858-HO) and
Implementation Letter. The Project i s the first phase o f an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
to help modernize land administration in the Republic o f Honduras (the Borrower), and
this would be the Project's first restructuring and closing date extension.' The proposed
restructuring falls under the category o f "second order restructuring" since it does not
involve revising the Project Development Objective (PDO) or associated outcome targets.
Moreover, the proposed changes do not raise the environmental category o f the Project, do
not trigger any new safeguard policies, and do not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

2.        The proposed modifications include: (i)                  changing implementation arrangements,
including changing the project's implementing agency; (ii)replacing references to the
SINREC agreement in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with references to the
Property Institute and its functions under the 2004 Property Law;2 (iii)eliminating the
option, included in the DCA, o f having an external procurement agent to manage selected
international bids and contracts financed by the Credit, and introducing the use o f updated
ProcurementKonsultant Selection Guidelines; (iv) adjusting selected output indicators for
systematic land regularization, titling and registration (Component 2 o f the Project); (v)
clarifying that no activities requiringresettlement will be financed under the Project; and (vi)
extendingthe Credit Closing Date for 16 months. The proposedrestructuring and extension
would provide appropriate arrangements and sufficient time for successful project
implementation and achievement o f the Project Development Objective (PDO), as well as a
solid foundation to continue into the next phase o f the APL.

3.        This restructuring proposal was developed while a full Inspection Panel
Investigation on the Project was underway. The Panel Inspection Investigation Report was
issued on June 12,2007, and the Management Response and Recommendation finalized on
August 3, 2007, taking into consideration the changes included in the restructuring
proposal. As detailed below, the proposedrestructuring focuses on key changes on Project
implementation arrangements and output targets needed to facilitate project performance


  A minor amendment was processed in December 2004 to increase the authorized allocation o f the Project's Special
Account.
'The   SINREC (Sistema Integrado de Registro y Catastro) Agreement was signed between the executive branch
(responsible at the time for cadastre administration), the judicial branch (responsible then for real estate registry), and
civil society representatives, whereby the two branches committed themselves to integrate the cadastre and registry, and
coordinate landadministration activities inthe country. Under the Property Law, the Property Institute i s responsible for
both cadastre and registry in an integrated manner.

                                                       2



improvement and ensure PDO achievement. The Bank's Board will discuss the Panel's
Report and Management Response on October 4,2007.

11.      Backgroundand Reasons for Restructuringand Extension

4.       Background. Total project costs were estimated at US$38.9 million at appraisal, to
be financed by an International Development Association (the Association) Credit .of SDR
16.9 million (US$25 million equivalent), a Nordic Development Fund (NDF) Credit o f
EUR6.0 million (US$7.9 million equivalent), and Borrower's counterpart funding. The
Credit from the Association was approvedby the Bank's Board on February 26, 2004, and
became effective on December 2, 2004, with a closing date o f April 30,2008. As o f June
30, 2007, the undisbursed amount o f the Credit was US$5.50 million equivalent. In
addition, all the funds from NDFremained undisbursed.

5.       Project Design and Scope: As stated in the DCA, the PDO is to establish and
operate (as part o f the broader program) an integrated and decentralized land
administration system, composed o f public and private entities, which provides users inthe
Project Area with accurate information on urban and rural land parcels and effective land
administration services (e.g., purchases, mortgages, cadastral and registry certifications) in
a timely and cost-effective manner. Three components support the achievement o f the
PDO: (i)   development of the policy framework and institutional strengthening to support
the establishment and operation o f SINAP (National Property Administration System); (ii)
systematic land regularization, titling, and registration in the Project Area; and (iii)                  project
management, monitoring and evaluation. Component 1 has a national scope and supports
increased transparency and improved governance o f the Borrower's main land
administration institutions. Component 2 is directly benefiting the population living inthe
areas targeted by the Project through massive land regularization and registration.
Component 3 covers the costs associated with project management and the monitoring and
evaluation o f activities.

6.       Project Performance to Date: The Project is inthe RVP's and Corporate risk lists.
After an initial satisfactory period, the Project has faced delays resulting in a Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating for Implementation Progress (IP) and a Moderately Satisfactory
rating for PDO achievement for several months3 Several output targets related to
Component 2 are lagging behind. IP and PDO ratings are mainly due to: (i)                          insufficient
allocation o f counterpart funds, which affected the disbursement o f the Credit and the
ability o f the implementing agency to execute the Project at the expected rate; (ii)slow
down and political interference due to the elections period followed by the government
transition after the 2006 elections; (iii)weak operational leadership, largely due to the
failure o f the Borrower to appoint a permanent Project Coordinator (the Project operated
with an interim Coordinator from July 2006 until March 2007); (iv) weak fiduciary
oversight resulting in several instances o f lack o f compliance with procurement and


 The baseline ratings correspond to the ISR no. 4 datedDecember 13, 2005, and the updated ratings reflect the latest
ISR, datedApril 20,2007. The Projectratingswere downgradedfor the first time inthe ISRno. 5 ofJune 24,2006.

                                                         3



financial management guidelines, as evidencedby several fiduciary reviews undertakenby
the A~sociation;~and (v) ineffective inter-institutional coordination. Disbursementsslowed
down significantly after a satisfactory pace in FY05, but recently picked up, amounting to
US$l.94 millioninFY07.

7.       On January 10, 2007, the Association issued a Notice o f Threatened Suspensiono f
Disbursement in response to the non-compliance with several covenants of the DCA
largely as a result o f the above problems, in addition to the Borrower's signing of a
Memorandum o f Understanding apparently dissolving the consultation mechanism for
Garifhas (an Afro-Honduran group) targeted by the Project. Previously, in March 2006
the Boardapprovedafull InspectionPanelInvestigation into the Project, largely inrelation
to regularization in ethnic lands, and particularly among Garifha communities. The Panel
assessed whether the Bank complied with the following operational policies and
procedures: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.0 l), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04),
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20); and Project Supervision (OP/BP 13.05). The Panel's
Report, issued on June 12, 2007, and the Management Response, completed on August 3,
2007, will be discussedby the Bank's Boardlater inthe year.

8.       Reasonsfor Project Restructuringand Extension: The main focus o f the proposed
restructuring i s on ensuringthat the original project outcome targets are achieved. While
maintaining the same PDO, the proposed restructuring responds to the urgent need to
update project implementation arrangements in order to reflect the current national legal
and institutionalframework, and to modify selectedoutputs under Component 2. Since the
Project's Board approval, the legal and institutional framework regulating land property
rights inHonduras has changed substantially. At the time of Project preparation, cadastre
administration was under the responsibility o f the Borrower's executive branch (its
Ministryof Interior -Secretariade Gobernacibn y Justicia, or SGJ) while the Borrower's
judicial branch was responsible for the real estate registry. Therefore, the SGJ was
selected as implementing agency and an agreement between SGJ and the Borrower's
judicial branch was established (the SINREC Agreement). The Property Law
(Congressional Decree 82-2004), published in the Official Gazette on June 29, 2004,
established a new legal regime for land administration, and created a new entity, the
Property Institute (Instituto de la Propiedad or IP), to oversee land administration in the
country inan integrated manner, including cadastre administration and real estate registry.
As a result, the Borrower is now requestingthat SGJbe replaced with IP as implementing
agency for the Project.

9.       Simultaneously, several output targets related to Component 2 need to be adjusted
in light of more precise estimates of baseline data, implementation capacity and
constraints, and remaining Project funds. During the supervision missions conducted

  Lack of compliance included, inter alia, use of funds from the Special Account to finance expenditures related to
counterpart funding, anddelaysin submissionoffinancial auditreportsandFMRs.In responseto this, threereviewshave
been conducted: a post-reviewby Bank staff and an independent procurementreviewby an internationalconsultant, for
which findings and recommendations are available, and an investigationby the Department of Institutional Integrity
(INT) that is still pendingcompletion.

                                                           4



between December 2006 and February 2007, the Task Team refinedwith the Borrower the
details o f the proposed restructuring. On March 20, 2007, the Association received a
formal request from the Borrower to restructure the Project, and on August 27, 2007, a
request to extendthe Credit Closing Date. As reflected inthe Borrower's Action Plan, the
extension would help ensure (i) completion o f key activities that suffered delays and
                                           the
whose implementation cannot be accelerated for technical andor logistical reasons (e.g.,
aerial photography, surveying, and social mobilization); and (ii)                       the fulfillment o f the
original triggers to continue into the next phase o f the APL.'

10.       The Project i s ready to undergo the restructuring. The Borrower has recently taken
actions that have effectively provided the conditions to improve project implementation,
and successfully met the conditions to avoid suspension o f disbursements. For instance, a
Project Coordinator and all the consultants needed in the PCU for 2007 have been
contracted. The PCU has already been streamlined, and its Fiduciary Unit strengthened,
according to the Action Plan being proposed to complete the Project. As confirmed inthe
national budget, sufficient counterpart funding has been allocated for 2007. The Council
o f Governors, an inter-institutional body which will provide strategic guidance to the
Project and facilitate coordination across agencies participating in the Project, i s finally
active, along with its Technical Committee. In addition, the National Agrarian Institute
(Instituto Nacional Agrario, or INA), has re-launched the process to finalize the
regularization manual for ethnic areas and revitalize activities related to these areas. The
effectiveness o f these actions depends on formalizing the urgently needed institutional and
implementation changes through Project restructuring.

111.      Proposed Changes

11.       Change of implementation arrangements. The Borrower confirmedthat the IP will
become the new Project's implementing agency. The IP will be required to enter into a
Subsidiary Agreement with the Borrower (represented by the Ministry o f Finance -
Secretaria de Finanzas y Crkdito Pliblico, or SEFIN)) and into Co-Execution Agreements
with participating government agencies and municipalities. The Association is currently
reviewing the drafts o f such agreements. The Project description will also need to be
adjusted slightly to conform to the new institutional arrangements. Moreover, as part of
the restructuring process, an assessment o f IP and the PCU's fiduciary unit was carried out
between May 14 and 18, 2007, and an action plan agreed, reflecting the findings o f the
assessment and the recommendations from the Independent Procurement Review (IPR).
At the same time, the Operational Manual is being updated (and will be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed amendment) to reflect changes in implementation and
fiduciary arrangements, and ensure compliance with Bank guidelines and procedures.




  These triggers include: (i)
                            creation of a new institutional framework and completion of an agreed transition plan from
the current structure; (ii)
                          achievement of 80 percent or better results of end-of-Phase Ioutcome (PDO) indicators; (iii)
adoptionof legal / regulatoryframework on land rights for indigenous and Afro-Honduran peoples; and (iv) completion
ofbaselinedata collection for Phase 11.

                                                         5



12.      Update of provisions related to cadastre administration and real estate registry.
References to the SINREC Agreement in the D C A will be replaced with references to the
Property Institute and its h c t i o n s under the Property Law.

13.      Elimination of procurement agent option and introducing use of updated
Procurement Guidelines / Consultant Selection Guidelines.                               As agreed with the
Association, the Borrower has ended its agreement with UNDP to act as Procurement
Agent for selected international bids. The option o f having a Procurement Agent was
included in the DCA. Going forward, the PCU will be directly responsible for all
procurement matters under the Project. Moreover, the Procurement and Consultant
Selection Guidelines o f May 2004 will now apply to the Project.

14.      Adjustment of selected output indicatorsfor systematic land regularization, titling
and registration (Component 2 of the Project). After estimating baseline information more
accurately, and assessing the Project remaining resources and the implementation technical
and logistical constraints o f some activities, the Borrower is proposing to adjust the
following six output indicators includedunder Component 2 inthe Project Implementation
Letter: (i)    Percentage of land parcels in the Project that are registered in SINAP under a
parcel-based system (folio real): 30 percent, from an original target o f 70 percent; (ii)
Percentage o f land transactions inthe Project area that are registered in SINAP under folio
real: 40 percent, from an original target o f 70 percent; (iii)             Number o f land parcels in the
Project area surveyed: 525,000 parcels from an original target o f 745,000;6 (iv) Number o f
protected areas that are demarcated and incorporated in SINAP: 8 protected areas, from an
original target o f 12 (which brings the estimated total area to 223,000 ha); (v) Number of
municipalities demarcated: 25 municipalities, from an original target o f 40, and kilometers
o f inter-municipal boundaries defined: 1,352 kilometers, from an original target o f 2,800;
and (vi) Number o f ethnic communities in the Project area whose land is demarcated and
surveyed by tenure category: 12 communities, from an original target o f 16; and number of
ethnic communities inthe Project area whose land i s titled and registered: 8 communities,
from an original target o f 12. (See Background on Adjustments in Annex 1 and revised
Project Results Matrix inAnnex 2).

15.      ClariJication regarding resettlement. It will be clarified in the DCA that no
activities requiring resettlement (as defined in OP 4.12) may be carried out under the
Project.

16.      Extension of Credit Closing Date: The Borrower i s requesting a 16-month
extension o f the closing date, from April 30, 2008 to October 30,2009.




 It was also agreed under this indicator to eliminate the reference "and regularized" since this number is measured
through the first output indicator.

                                                           6



IV.     Analysis

17.     The Task Team's assessment i s that the proposed changes do not substantially
affect original economic, financial, technical, and social aspects o f the Project. More
specifically, the proposed adjustments to selected output indicators are not likely to affect
adversely the economic viability o f the Project. Overall, while there will be some
reductions inthe total number o f parcels surveyed and regularized, the establishmento f the
SINAP and modernization o f registries are likely to have a larger impact than expected.
The original economic analysis, although based on conservative assumptions, indicated a
very high internal rate o f return (44 percent) for investments in regulari~ation.~                         This rate
was higher than most land projects, thus comparing favorably with, for instance, 34
percent in a similar andhighly successful program in Thailand and 17 percent inprevious
programs in Honduras. This high rate o f return was plausible given the largely urban
character o f the Project, which will not be changed fundamentally under the proposed
restructuring. The second main area o f benefits expected fiom the Project i s not affected by
the proposed adjustments inoutputs, since this refers to the reduction o f titling transaction
costs and the consequent savings to the economy from increased efficiency o f service
delivery, which are related to activities under Component 1.

18.      The Project will, at the same time, maintain its positive institutional impact through
its support to IP and the establishment o f SINAP, as well as its positive social and
economic impact through the regularization o f rural and urban land parcels, modernization
o f registries, the demarcation o f indigenous territories and protected areas, and the support
to conflict resolution mechanisms.

19.     Based on the assessment o f the Borrower's Action Plan, the Task Team i s satisfied
that all main criteria for Project restructuring and extension have been met. By taking the
actions described above, the Borrower has demonstrated a renewed commitment to the
Project, and the performance o f the PCU continues to improve with direct and increased
support from the Ministry o f Finance. The PDO and its associated outcome targets remain
achievable (see below), while the proposed restructuring and extension make the Project's
output targets more realistic and attainable.

20.      The request to extendthe Credit Closing Date should be consideredgiven that:

          (a)     The extension supports the restructuring's purpose o f ensuring the
                  achievement o f the PDO and outcome targets.

          (b)     This is the first extension sought for the Credit, and it meets the criteria set
                  inOPBP 13.30.




'The  economic analysis indicated that, for instance, further analysis of land price, ideally with a panel data set, was
neededto measure the project's impact more accurately.

                                               7



                The proposed restructuring includes a feasible/satisfactory action plan and a
                schedule to complete the Project within the proposed extension period, to
                which the Borrower and the Bank have agreed.

                Currently, neither the Credit nor the country i s subject to an ongoing
                suspension o f disbursements, and there are no outstanding Audit Reports.

                The co-financing beingprovided by the Nordic Development Fund(EUR 6
                million or US$ 7.9 million equivalent) would continue throughout the
                extension period, as the NDF i s also considering extending the closing date
                o f its Credit Agreement with the Borrower.

V.      ExpectedOutcomes

21.     The proposed restructuring does not affect the PDO or associated outcome targets.
The PDO will continue to be the one presented in Section I1above. As shown inAnnex 2,
and consistent with the PDO, the six original outcome targets reflect institutional,
technological and efficiency impacts resulting mainly from activities that are not directly
affected by the proposed adjustment in selected output indicators. These activities include,
inter alia, development and institutionalization o f SINAP and its sub-systems; modernization
and decentralization of national registry, including support at the municipal level; capacity
buildingat the central and local level; and development of conflict resolution mechanisms
related to national lands. Inbrief, the expected levels o f quality, efficiency, satisfaction and
confidence related to the improved national property system, as established through the
outcome target indicators, remain valid and achievable.

VI.     BenefitsandRisks

22.     As noted above, the proposedrestructuring will ensure the achievement o fthe PDO
and its associated outcome targets, as well as meeting o f the triggers for Phase I.
Moreover, through the restructuring, institutional strengthening support to the IP will be
provided more directly, thus helping the IP to prepare better not only to implement Phase
I1o f the APL, but also to support the long term efforts of the Borrower to modernize land
administration inthe country.

23.     Nevertheless, several risks will require continued attention:

    (a)     IP's lack of implementation experience. As noted above, the IP is a new entity
            and has no previous experience implementingan IDA-financed Project. The IP
            will receive assistance in institutional strengthening and capacity building, to
            ensure that the Project i s implemented satisfactorily, but this process is likely to
            be lengthy. At the same time, the PCU has been strengthened by bringing on
            board the required skills and expertise, while several good performing
            consultants with experience in Bank procedures have remained. As a result,
            PCU implementation capacity has increased.

                                                             8



               Weak fiduciary capacity. Strong fiduciary capacity is critical as well,
              particularly considering IP's lack o f experience. To strengthen this capacity, the
              Action Plan agreed during the fiduciary mission mentioned above includes
              training for the IP and PCU, as well as mechanisms to strengthen internal
              controls.

              Safeguard compliance: Safeguard issues will continue to pose risks to the
              impact and credibility of the Program and reputational risks for the Association.
              Although the resettlement policy (OP/BP 4.12) does not apply,' the public need-
              based land titling process inurban areas i s beingundertaken in the country for
              the first time and serious challengesremain to ensure that vulnerable households
              benefit fully from this process. Moreover, with regard to the indigenous peoples
              policy (OP 4.20), the social and political context o f regularization o f indigenous
               lands inthe Atlantic Coast and Mosquitia makes it difficult to achieve results on
              the ground at the desired pace and to meet communities' expectations. In this
              respect, a regularization manual for urban areas has been finalized, while a
               manual for ethnic areas i s beingpreparedfollowing a broad-based consultation
              process and with close supervision o f Bank specialists. These manuals will be
               addedto the Operational Manual.

24.      The risks listed above point to the need for intense Project supervision and
availability o f Bank expertise to provide timely advice on fiduciary and safeguard issues to
the Borrower.




* Footnote 8 o f OP 4.12 provides that the policy does not apply to disputes between private parties inlandtitling projects,
although it is a good practice for the borrower to undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize and
mitigate adverse social impacts, especially those affecting poor and vulnerable groups. Under the Project, a socio-
economic assessment i s carried out as part o f the regularization process, and the Operational Manual includes screening
mechanisms to prevent physical or economic displacement.

                                              9



                                           Annex 1
                       Overview of OutputIndicatorsAdjustments

The following output indicators under Component 2 have been adjusted after considering
(i)more accurate estimates of baseline indicators and costs of some activities; (ii)
remaining resources under the Project, including from the Credit, the NDF, and the
Government; and (iii) understanding o f technical and logistical constraints faced by
                       better
the Project, basedon actual implementationexperience. Specific discussion o fthe rationale
for each adjusted output indicator i s presented below. These adjustments do not affect the
achievement o f the original PDO or its associated outcome targets.

OriginalOulmut Indicator:70% o f the landparcels inthe Project area are registered in
SINAP (National PropertyAdministration System) under the parcel-based systemyblio
real).

Adiustment: This target is adjusted to 208,423 parcels, or 30 percent of the total
estimated initially under the Project area (745,000 parcels).

This adjustment reflects the implementation potential for land regularization activities
within the new circumstances established by the modalities set forth in the 2004 Property
Law, which was not yet approved during the appraisal o f the Project, and actual
implementation capacity in relation to such modalities. The new legal framework under
the 2004 Property Law clearly defined what a folio real is, and established a process of
parcel regularization underpinninga folio real with requirements that were not known at
the moment o f project appraisal. As established, this process is more complex and lengthy
than initially assumed, and slightly costlier.

OriPinalOutput Indicator: 70% of land transactions inthe Project area are registered in
SINAP underfolio real.

Adiustment:This target is revisedto 40 percent o ftransactions.

Similar to the previous indicator, the total amount of potential transactions was initially
overestimated.    Moreover, this figure was established during project appraisal without
having a good estimate o f the total number o f registries that should be modernized inorder
to achieve the establishedtarget.

Project implementation experience to date has confirmed that modernization o f property
registries i s an essential preliminary step in the process to generate folios reales in a
massive, systematic way or based on demand. Considering what i s feasible under current
circumstances, it was determined that eight registries can be modernized by the end o f the
Project. On this basis, it was estimated that a realistic target for this indicator was 40
percent o f land transactionsregistered inSINAP by end o fproject.

                                                 10



Original Output Indicator: 745,000 land parcels in the Project area surveyed and
regularized:

Adiustment:This target is reduced to 521,500 land parcels in the Project area surveyed.
As explained below, the words "and regularized" are eliminated for this indicator.

Duringproject preparation, the target number ofparcels to be surveyed was overestimated.
Project implementation experience shows that the original target exceeds the existing
country capacity.

Regularized parcels will not be measured under this indicator as these are already being
measuredby the first indicator discussed above, given that according to the Property Law,
a regularized parcel mustbe registered under the folio real.

Original Outmt Indicator: 12 protected areas (an approx. area o f 230.000 ha) are
demarcatedand incorporated in SINAP.

Adiustment: This target is reduced to 8 protected areas (resulting in an approx. area of
220,000 ha, given that some protected areas have been enlarged over recent years). The
new target is estimated on the basis o f the complex logistics and process, as well as the
human resources required to establish the protected areas' perimeters and set the
demarcation landmarks in the field. The most critical area, Pic0 Bonito, was kept under
the revised list, which also includes:

     \              Management
                    Category                                        Municipality         Extension
 ProtectedArea                            Department                                        Has.
                                          ~

                                                         LaCeiba, ElPorvenir, La Masica,
 Pic0Bonito         Parque Nacional    Atlantida, Yoro    San Francisco y Olanchito      107.090,OO
 Blanca Jeannette
 Kawas Fernhdez     ParqueNacional     Atlantida, Cortes Tela, Puerto CortCs               78.145

 Punta Izopo        ParqueNacional     Atliintida        Arizona, Tela, Esparta          18.820,OO
 Capiro y
 Calentura          Parque Nacional    Col6n             Trujillo, Sta. Fe                4.858,31
                    Jardin Botiinico y
                    Centro de
 Lancetilla         Investigacih       Atliintida         Tela,                             1681
 Barras de Cuero y Refugio de Vida                        ElPorvenir, SanFrancisco, La
 Salado             Silvestre          Atlhntida         Masica y Esparta                  12800
 Fortaleza de San
 Fernando de        Monument0
 Omoa               Cultural           CortCs            Omoa                                41
 Laguna de          k e a de Usos
 Ticamaya           M~ltiples          CortCs           I Choloma                         442,66
                                                                                        223.877,97

                                            11



Oripinal Output Indicator: 40 municipalities are demarcated and 2,800 km o f inter-
municipal boundaries defined.

Adiustment: This target is reducedto 25 municipalities demarcated and 1,352 kmo f inter-
municipalboundaries defined.

With respect to municipal boundaries, the term "demarcated" refers more accurately to
delimiting. The new target is based on a better understanding of the process and logistics
required to determine these perimeters and boundaries.

Municipios de Comayagua
1. Comayagua
2. Ajuterique
3. ElRosario
4. Esquias
5. Humuya
6. LaLibertad
7. Lamani
8. L a Trinidad
9. Lejamani
10. Meambar
11.Minas de Oro
12. Ojo de Agua
13. San Jeronimo
14. San Jose de Comayagua
15. San Jose del Potrero
16. San Luis
17. San Sebastian
18. Siguatepeque
19. Villa de San Antonio
20. Las Lajas
21.Taulabe

Municipios de Francisco Morazhn
1. San Buenaventura
2. SantaAna
3. Santa Lucia
4. Valle de Angeles

OriginalOutputIndicator: (a) Lands of 16ethnic communities inthe Project area are
demarcated andsurveyedbytenure category; (b) Lands of 12 ethnic communities inthe
Project area are titled andregisteredinSINAP:

Adiustment: This target is adjusted to (a) lands o f 12 ethnic communities in the Project
area to be demarcated and surveyed by tenure category; and (b) lands o f 8 ethnic

                                            12



communities in the Project area are titled or have a certificate o f occupation, and are
registeredinSINAP.

With regard to communal boundaries, the term "demarcated" refers to delimiting.The new
target is basedon a better understanding of the social and political challenges faced by the
regularization process, which includes highly participatory consultations in a conflictive
environment, support to Mesas Regionales, management o f community expectations, and
the promotionofconflict resolution mechanisms.

The revisedlist o f communities includes:

COMUNIDADESGARIFWAS
Departamento de Col6n:
1. Cristales y Rio Negro,
2. Sangre laya,
3. Limb,
4. SantaFe,
5. Guadalupe,
6. San Antonio
Departamento de Atlhntida:
7. Rio Tinto (en el Departamento de Atlhntida).

COWNIDADESMISKITAS:
Departamento de Gracias a Dios
1. Yajurabila,
2. Krata,
3. Puswia,
4. Kaski,
5. Caukira

                                                   13



                                                 Annex 2
                        ProjectResults-Outcome and OutputIndicators

?roject Development        PDOIndicators            Project Reports          :FromPDOto
3bjective                                                                    Program Purpose)

4x1integrated and          Systemmaintains a 96%    SINAP subsystem          Successful integrationo f
iecentralized land         :ate o f titled lands    [SURE, SINIT) reports    .hevarious registries,
idministration system .    accurately registered in                          novable assets,
:composed o f public and   SINAP                    independent              :ommercial, and
xivate entities)                                    evaluations o f SINAP    intellectualproperty
xoviding users inthee      At least 70% o f SINAP                            eights registries
xoject areas with          users (and % o f women)  Registry annual report
accurate information on    rate its services as     and financial statements
xban and rural land        "satisfactory" (third                             Key features o f new

?arcels and effective      level on a four-level                              legal and institutional
                                                    Stakeholder, customer,
land administration        scale)                                             framework:
services (transactions,                             and beneficiary surveys

mortgages, cadastral and   The average time to                                B   Transfer o f
registry certifications,   register a land          Project's MIS reports         registries from
etc.) ina timely, cost-    transaction i s 7 days                                 Judicial to
effective manner                                    Independent impact            Executive
                           Average administrative   evaluation report             Consolidationo f
                           cost o f registering a                                folio real
                           land transaction is 2.07 IDA supervision reports       Consolidationo f
                           US$ equiv.                                             all registries
                                                    Mid-term Review               Strengthening of
                            100%ofthe Registry's    (MW                           decentralized land
                           operating costs covered                                administration to
                           byregistration fees       Implementation               municipal levels
                                                     Completion Report

                           At least 60% ofthe        (IW
                           conflicts on national
                            lands (protected areas
                            and forests) inthe
                            project area are
                            resolved

.
                                                  14




Output from each          Output Indicators        ProjectReports             (FromOutputsto
Corn onent                                                                    Ob,iective)

1.Policy Framework        60 access / connection   Laws, regulatory           Comprehensive
and Institutional         points to SINAP          decrees, and policy        institutional and
Strengthening             establishedinpublic and  statements officially      regulatory reform is
                          private entities         publishedand               approved to consolidate
The National Property                              disseminated by            the real estateproperty
Administration System     600 people certified to  Government                 institutional and
(SINAP) i s created,      operate S N A P                                     regulatoryregime
including a National      subsystems               Quarterly project
Land Information                                   implementationreports      Judicial reform
System (SINIT), its                                preparedby PCU             facilitates the
Registry o fNorms                                                             independence of, and
(RENOT), and the                                                              access by, the poor to
Unified Registries                                                            the courts
System (SURE), and
operates at selected
public & private entities



2. Area-based             30% o f land parcels in  Project-generated field    Government entities
SystematicLand            the project area are     reports, maps,             enforce existing
Regularization, Titling   registered inSINAP       assessments, etc.          measures (such as the
and Registration          under a parcel-based                                1992 Agricultural
                          system(folio real)       SINIT reports, SURE        Modernization Law) and
Land parcels (private                              reports for each type o f  all future land tenure
and public, rural and                              land regularized, titled   laws and policies, as
urban) are incorporated   40% o f land             and incorporated in        they affect achievement
inSINAP underfolio        transactions inthe       SINAP:                     o f the project objective
real inthe project area:  project area are
                          registered inSINAP
* Comayagua                                        * Nationalpublic    lands  Government adopts a
                (3rd step underfolio real          (forests, protected areas) comprehensive forestry
o fpilot; rural & urban)
* Cortes                                           *** Private
                                                       Municipal lands        policy that clarifies and
          (all 3 steps in Percentage o f parcels               urban lands    enforces rights over
rural and urban areas)    incorporated in SINAP
* Francisco                                            Private rural lands    forest lands and that
              Morazan     with a woman as          (including lands           strengthens the
(1st step, all urban      principal owner          belonging to ethnic        regulatory functions o f
areas; 2ndand 31dsteps,                            groups, individually or    COHDEFOR
Tegucigalpa only)         521,500 land parcels in
* Atliintida (1st                                  collectively)
                  step,   the project area                                    Appropriate legal and
selected rural areas; 2"d surveyed'                Project's MIS reports      institutional frameworks
and 3rdsteps, selected                                                        are inplace for
protected, forest and      12,000 parcels surveyed Performance/ field         protected areas
ethnic rural areas)       innationalforest areas
* Colon                                            evaluation reports o f all (including adequate
          (1" step,                                contractors                funding o f a Fondo de
selected rural; 2"dand     8 protected areas (an                              Areas Protegidas)
3rdsteps, selected ethnic approx. area o f 220,000
rural areas)              ha) are demarcated and
* Gracias                                                                     Appropriate
           a Dios (1st    incorporated inSINAP                                mechanisms are inplace
step, selected rural; 2"d                                                     to resolve land issues o f
and 31dsteps, selected                                                        indigenous and Afro-

                                                 15



Output from each        Output Indicators         ProjectReports         (From Outputs to
Component                                                                Objective)
:thnic rural areas)
* Choluteca             25 municipalities                                Honduranpeoples
                        delimited and 1,352 k m s
(modernization o f      o f inter-municipal                              All other land-related
registry)               boundariesdefined                                initiatives inthe
                                                                         country, urban and rural,
                        Lands o f 12 ethnic                              use compatible cadastre
                        communities inthe                                and registration
                        project area delimited                           methodologies
                        and surveyed by tenure
                        category (and 8                                  Municipalities have
                        communities titled and                           access to increased
                        registered inSINAP)                              (closer to the 5% o f
                                                                         national revenues
                        Number o f                                       mandated by law), more
                        Regularization Tables                            regular, and more
                        established                                      predictable resources
                                                                         from the national
                                                                         government to
                                                                         effectively carry out
                                                                         their land administration
                                                                         functions

3. ProjectManagement,   Annual Operating Plan     Quarterly project
Monitoring &            and training plans        performance reports
Evaluation              approved inNovember       from MIS, preparedby
                        for following year        PCU
Phase Io f the Program
i s well managedand     Procurement Plan          Annual Audits
properly coordinated    approved inSeptember
with other related      for following year        IDAsupervision reports
initiatives, and the
management systems      Phase IEvaluation         Mid-term Review
requiredfor Phase I1are completed inthree         (MTR)
fully operational       months before closing
                        date                      Implementation
                        PIP for PhaseI1agreed     Completion Report
                        three months before       (ICR)
                        closing date o f Phase I


