                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    Report No. 49621-ZW




      FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE CORE MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND
                           EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER
                               ON A PROPOSED GRANT
            UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM
                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION
                        TO GRM INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
                                         FOR A
          ZIMBABWE EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL INPUT PROJECT




                                      July 30, 2009


Agriculture and Rural Development
Country Department AFCS2
Africa Region




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
 performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
 World Bank authorization.
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective April 5, 2009)
                          Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
                                      US$1 = Z$224
                    (However, the Zimbabwe dollar is not currently traded)



                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 ­ December 31




                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AusAID     Australian Agency for International Development
BMZ        Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (Germany)
BP         Bank Procedure
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
CTRSP      Community-Based Transitional Recovery Support Project
DFID       Department for International Development
EPP        Emergency Project Paper
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
ECHO       European Commission Humanitarian Aid
EU         European Union
FMS        Financial Management Specialist
FPCR       Food Price Crisis Response
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GFRP       Global Food Crisis Response Program
IDA        International Development Association (World Bank Group)
ISN        Interim Strategy Note
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
LIB        Limited International Bidding
LICUS      Low Income Countries Under Stress
MDTF       Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MoAMID     Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanization and Irrigation Development
MTLC       Managing, Technical learning and Coordination Unit (GRM)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OFDA       Office of United States Foreign Disaster Assistance
OP         Operational Policy
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
PFMS       Public Financial Management System
                                                i
PRP    Protracted Relief Program
SADC   Southern African Development Community
SIDA   Swedish International Development Agency
SPF    State and Peace-Building Fund
SSB    Seed Services Branch (Zimbabwe)
STERP  Short term Economic Recovery Program
USAID  United Stated Agency for International Development
WFP    World Food Program of the United Nations
ZEAIP  Zimbabwe Emergency Agricultural Input Project (ZEAIP)
ZIMVAC Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee




                           Vice President:        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Acting Country Director:         Peter Nicholas
                          Sector Director:        Inger Andersen
                         Sector Manager:          Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                      Task Team Leader:           David Rohrbach




                                             ii
                                                     Zimbabwe
                                          Emergency Agricultural Input Project

                                                              CONTENTS

A. Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 1
B. Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for the Emergency Project ....................... 2
C. World Bank Response ................................................................................................................ 6
D. Appraisal of Project Activities ................................................................................................. 12
E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan ................................................................. 19
F. Project Risks and Mitigation Measures .................................................................................... 22
G. Terms and Conditions .............................................................................................................. 24


Annexes

Annex 1: Description of Project Components and Implementation ............................................. 26
Annex 2: Results Framework........................................................................................................ 32
Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Cost ............................................................................. 37
Annex 4: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................ 38
Annex 5: Procurement Arrangements ........................................................................................... 49
Annex 6: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ............................................................ 54
Annex 7: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ...................................................... 60
Annex 8: Zimbabwe at a Glance ................................................................................................... 61
Annex 9: Zimbabwe Map ............................................................................................................. 62




                                                                       iii
                   EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECT DATA SHEET
                                           Zimbabwe
                             Emergency Agricultural Input Project
                                          Africa Region
Date: July 30, 2009                           Team Leader: David Rohrbach
Acting Country Director: Peter Nicholas       Sectors: Agriculture, Social Protection
Sector Director: Inger Andersen               Themes: Global Food Crisis Response
Sector Manager: Karen McConnell Brooks Environmental Screening Category C
Lending Instrument: Emergency Operation
Type of Operation:
New Operation [X] Additional Financing [ ] Existing Financing (restructuring) [ ]
Financing Type: Loan [ ]       Credit [ ]     IDA Grant [ ]       Other [X]
Project ID(s): P117212                        Total Amount: US$7.0 million
Proposed terms: Grant (from FPCR Core         Expected implementation period: 18 months
Multi-Donor Trust Fund)
Expected effectiveness date: July 31, 2009 Expected closing date: June 30, 2011
Grantee: GRM International Limited            Responsible Agency: GRM International
Guarantor: GRM International Group            Limited
Limited
Development Objective: To increase access to improved seeds among 300,000 smallholder
farmers in targeted food-insecure Communal Lands of Zimbabwe

Short description: The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis
Response Program, and will be financed by the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-Donor
Trust Fund. The proposed operation will finance the distribution of improved maize seeds to
300,000 households in 10 kg packs to strengthen their capacity to produce more grain
necessary to meet consumption requirements. The project will contribute to reduce the
country's dependence on expensive grain imports and food aid. The project will have two
components: (i) the provision of improved maize seeds; and (ii) project coordination,
monitoring and evaluation.

The project will be implemented by GRM International Limited, a UK company which
manages the Protracted Relief Programme jointly funded by DFID, Australia, the Netherlands
and the European Union. This assures implementation by a well experienced management
entity working with a strong set of NGO partners.
Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                              Local           Foreign          Total
Borrower
IDA
Trust Funds                         0.9             6.1              7.0
Others
Total                               0.9             6.1              7.0
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
                                    2010        2011        2012
IDA                                                                       -
Trust Funds                         6.5         0.5         -
Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank     Yes [] No [x]

                                              iv
policies?
Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?          Yes [x] No []
What safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Pest Management, but since adequate mitigation
measures have already been taken care of, the Project safeguards have been given a "C" rating.

Significant non-standard conditions, if any:
    A. Board condition: N/A
    B. Effectiveness condition: (a) (i) The Guarantor has executed and delivered to the World
Bank the Guarantee Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii)
the Recipient and Guarantor have each executed a letter containing representations and
warranties concerning its legal structure and financial condition ("Representation Letter"); in
each case, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. (b) The execution and
delivery of: (i) the Agreement and the Representation Letter on behalf of the Recipient; and (ii)
the Guarantee Agreement and the Representation Letter on behalf of the Guarantor; in each
case, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
(c) If World Bank so requests, the condition of the Recipient, as represented or warranted to
the World Bank in the Representation Letter, or the condition of the Guarantor, as represented
or warranted to the World Bank in the Representation Letter, has undergone no material
adverse change after the date of such Representation Letter. (d) The Recipient has adopted a
chart of accounts acceptable to the World Bank. (e) The Member Country has confirmed its
support for the Project in a manner acceptable to the World Bank1.
    C. Disbursement condition: No withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the
date of countersignature of the Agreement by the Recipient, except that withdrawals up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$60,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior
to this date but on or after July 1, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures.
    D. Legal covenants: Standard




1
    This was confirmation received in a letter from the Government dated 15 July 2009.

                                                          v
                                            Zimbabwe

                          Emergency Food Security Support Project

A. Introduction

1.      This emergency project paper (EPP) proposes to support the Zimbabwe Emergency
Agricultural Input Project (ZEAIP) in the amount of US$7.0 million to be financed under the
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) from the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-
Donor Trust Fund (FPCR Core MDTF).

2.       The proposed ZEAIP will finance short term activities to reduce Zimbabwe's
dependence on high cost food imports and food aid by providing seed inputs to expand
production levels of poorer farm households to help meet their grain consumption requirements.
The project will have two components: (i) the provision of improved maize seeds necessary to
expand planted area and improve crop yields; and (ii) project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation. The proposed project is expected to be completed in 18 months.

3.        The ZEAIP was formulated in the context of the Government's own strategic response
to the food crisis as laid out in their Short Term Economic Recovery Program (STERP). This
calls for the provision of crop inputs to 800,000 farmers struggling to obtain a daily subsistence.
The project is also an integral part of the emergency response activities in the agricultural sector
coordinated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) which itself
links investments of the Department for International Development (DFID), the European Union
(EU), and a community of more than 30 non-governmental organizations (NGO). To further
improve this coordination, the project will be implemented in conjunction with the Protracted
Relief Program (PRP) of Britain's Department for International Development (DFID), which is
described further below.

4.        The project builds on the extensive experience of all participants in distributing seed and
fertilizer to farmers under humanitarian programs during the past 17 years, and most particularly
during the past five consecutive years. Procedures and logistics for the distribution of seed
through NGOs to needy farmers are well established.

5.        In 2008, Zimbabwe harvested less than 30 percent of its cereal grain requirements, as a
result of drought and a shortage of farm inputs. Due in part to rising international grain prices,
the country failed to find enough resources for government or commercial grain imports. By
early 2009, upwards of 7 million people, or more than 60 percent of the country's population,
required food aid. While the grain harvest appears to have improved in 2009, this production is
still only expected to meet 65 percent of the nation's consumption requirements. This
production deficit is particularly difficult for rural households who have the least access to cash
income from alternative sources necessary to purchase food. Dependence on the import and
distribution of large quantities of expensive food aid will continue. Both government and
consumers worry about the prospects of another sharp increase in international grain prices.




                                                 1
6.       The first priority of the majority of the country's small-scale farmers is to produce
enough grain to meet their household consumption requirements. The allocation of assistance to
expand production levels of poorer farm households offers a sustainable means to help
Zimbabwe reduce its dependence on high cost and volatile international grain markets. In
addition, this improves the grain supplies of many of the poorest households in the country who
are expensive to service with external food aid programs.

7.       Due to the emergency nature of this food crisis, the project has been prepared under
OP/BP 8.00 guidelines that provide the Bank's policy framework for a rapid response to the
needs of Zimbabwe.

B. Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for the Emergency Project

B1. Country Context

8.       Zimbabwe's political situation has been in a state of flux since a new power-sharing
government was formed in mid-February 2009. The new government has moved to arrest the
deteriorating economic crisis by adopting a short-term economic stabilization program, but
implementation has been slowed by the lack of adequate funding. Cumulative real Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have declined over 35 percent since 1999. Frequent
power and water cuts, deteriorating infrastructure, shortages of fuel and foreign exchange, and
large-scale emigration of skilled workers have contributed to output declines in all sectors. A
major feature of the economic crisis has been record-breaking levels of hyper-inflation that the
country has experienced during the past few years. The last official estimate made in July 2008
placed this at 231 million percent, but estimates by independent economists suggest inflation
exceeded 2 quintillion percent by the end of October 2008. In early 2009, the country legalized
commercial transactions in multiple currencies, and the Zimbabwe dollar has all but disappeared.
The main traded currencies are the US dollar, the South African rand and the Botswana pula.
This has contributed to the stabilization of domestic prices. The prices of some non-traded
commodities (e.g. electricity) remains high, but the prices of traded commodities (e.g. milk,
bread, and maize meal) have declined. Even so, the majority of poor households have only
limited access to purchased food stuffs because they have no access to foreign currency.

9.       Many basic services have collapsed, and schools and hospitals are struggling to
maintain a minimum level of operation. The lack of clean water and poor sanitation have
contributed to a major cholera outbreak with high fatality rates.2 Even though the country's
Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS)
prevalence rate has declined, this remains high at 16 percent.

10.     Agriculture accounts for about 18 percent of GDP, and 70 percent of employment.
Agricultural production has been declining since the late 1990s, and this accelerated following
the implementation of the Fast Track Land Redistribution in 2000. Estimates of the level of sown
area and production vary widely, though aggregate agricultural production is believed to have
declined by more than 30 percent during the period 1999 -2007. Zimbabwe, which had been a
net food exporter during the 1980s, has become a major food importing country. In 2006, the

2
    As of 10 March 2009, the death toll exceeded 4,000.

                                                          2
country was forced to import 1.2 million tonnes of grains, or two-thirds of its national
requirement. In 2008, Zimbabwe similarly produced less than 30 percent of its annual cereal
requirement due to the combination of erratic rains and shortages of farming inputs. The World
Food Program (WFP) estimated a need for over 1.4 million tons of grain imports. The
government tried to import a significant share of this grain, but lacked the resources to cover the
cost of even 50% of this need. Official estimates of the 2009 harvest suggest that about 65
percent of national cereal grain needs have been met. But the country will once again struggle to
find adequate funds to resolve this deficit through grain imports.

B2. Economic and Social Impact

11.     Over 70 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. Less than 20 percent of
the working age population is formally employed. But formal sector wages are so low that many
low income workers still pursue supplementary trading activities in order to earn enough to
purchase food. For many, the costs of transport to and from work remain higher than the monthly
wage.

12.      Hyper-inflation has been brought under control by legalizing commercial trade in
foreign currency. Wages and prices have been largely converted to US dollars. By early April
2009, there was no evidence of trade in Zimbabwe dollars. While the national currency remains
legal tender, virtually all goods, including electricity, water and phone charges are now
denominated in US dollars. This places poorer farmers in a particularly difficult position. Most
simply do not have the foreign currency with which to purchase food and inputs, much less pay
for school fees and medicines. Continuing shortages of foreign currency severely constrain the
development of commodity trade.

13.       Household food security has declined precipitously. Over the past five years, an average
of about 4 million vulnerable people, a third of the country's population, have had to depend on
food aid. Most of these people reside in the country's rural areas. In the first quarter of 2009,
WFP estimates indicated that more than 7 million people needed food aid. This results from the
fact that only 575,000 tons of grain were harvested in 2008, or about one-third of the country's
requirement. In past years, many food deficit households could purchase grain obtained from
surplus production areas or imports. Sales of maize meal were ubiquitous in rural retail shops.
Currently, however, these retail shops barely function. Until recently, commercial grain imports
and trade were severely constrained by the combination of hyper-inflation and price controls.
Now, there is imported maize meal in city shops, but allocations to the rural market remain
severely limited due to lack of buying power.

14.      Maize is the country's main staple. This grain has historically accounted for about 75
percent of calorie supplies from grains. Given the country's reliance on food aid, this dependence
has likely risen. According to the Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee (ZIMVAC),
maize accounts for 120 kg out of the 158 kg consumption requirement per capita. With a
population estimated at 11.5 million this implies a need for approximately 1.4 million tons of
maize for food. An additional 150,000 tons may be required for the stock feed and brewing
industries.



                                                3
15.      The recovery of Zimbabwe's grain production depends on the expansion of production
area and yields. Yet by 2008, virtually all improved maize seeds and fertilizer was being
provided to farmers through either government or donor funded relief programs. Most small-
scale farmers simply could not afford to purchase these inputs. The few who could afford them
had to travel to urban areas to obtain their supplies. Virtually no rural shops stocked agricultural
supplies such as seed or fertilizer.

16.      The HIV/ AIDS pandemic has contributed to food insecurity at the household level by
reducing household labour and income-earning capacity. Sixteen percent of the adult population
or about 1.2 million people are infected with HIV. Only about 20 percent of the population
currently has access to anti-retro viral medicines.

17.     The latest nutrition survey (2008) indicates that the gains of the early independence era
have been eroded due to a decline in food security at the national and household level. Available
data suggest about 28 percent of children under five years of age are stunted.

B3. Government Response to the Crisis

18.      The STERP places agricultural recovery, with particular emphasis on food security, as
one of its top priorities. The strategy proposes the distribution of agricultural inputs to 800,000
farm households3, or about three-quarters of all farmers in the country. Each of these farmers is
targeted to receive 10 kg of maize seed, 50 kg of Compound D basal fertilizer and 50 kg of
ammonium nitrate top dress. This is a package believed sufficient for 0.5 hectares of land or just
over one acre. However, no budget has been set aside for this program. The expectation is that
donors will fund the purchase and distribution of these inputs either through government or non-
governmental channels.

19.      The STERP also calls on private sector support to promote the revitalization of
production for wheat, cotton, tobacco, sugarcane, sorghum and millet (small grains). Emphasis
again is placed on the provision of seed, fertilizer and fuel under the auspices of contract farming
and related commercial investment schemes.

20.      Agricultural markets have essentially been liberalized. Price controls for both inputs and
products have been lifted. The deregulation of input prices is linked with a call for the
development of commercial input trade. Farmers are expected to shift from a dependence on free
input handouts toward self reliance. The distribution of crop input packs is expected to evolve
from a program of handouts toward purchases of agricultural inputs in the market. The parastatal
Grain Marketing Board no longer retains a monopoly over maize and wheat trade. Private traders
are being encouraged to enter the market, though access to trading capital remains constrained.

21.     The STERP also calls for the completion of a "non-partisan land audit" as a means to
encourage investment in land based assets. This is expected to lead to the clarification of land


3
  Available estimates suggest there are about 1.1 million small-scale farmers still operating in Zimbabwe's
traditional communal lands, 72,000 small-scale farmers operating in the resettlement areas established in the 1980s,
141,000 small-scale farmers operating in newly resettled areas, and 26,000 medium to larger scale farmers.

                                                         4
ownership and the establishment of secure tenure arrangements, particularly in the resettlement
areas. A commitment is expressed to stop land invasions, though these currently continue.

22.      Recognizing the interim need for food imports, the government has temporarily
suspended import duties and taxes on food items. However, the benefits of this policy still
largely accrue to the limited number of consumers with access to foreign exchange in the urban
market. Most rural, farm households continue to face difficulty gaining access to foreign
exchange necessary to purchase basic commodities.

B4. Response of Development Partners

23.      Zimbabwe has not received substantive development funding over the past few years.
Virtually all assistance has been in the form of humanitarian support. This has largely taken the
form of food aid, seed and fertilizer inputs, medicines and related technical assistance.

24.       During the 2008/09 summer season, donors, working in conjunction with NGOs,
provided seed and fertilizer inputs to over 350,000 smallholder farm households, or about one-
third of the small-scale farm population. In addition, many farmers received assistance with
conservation farming, garden plots, restocking of animals, veterinary medicines and agro-
forestry. These programs were coordinated by the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. FAO
supervised the distribution of some inputs. But the Emergency Coordination Unit's larger role
was to work with donors and NGOs to target their assistance, and avoid overlapping relief
programs. FAO also provided technical advice to donors and NGOs seeking to plan humanitarian
relief programs in the agricultural sector.

25.      The major donors in the sector include the EU (primarily through its European
Commission on Humanitarian Aid - ECHO) and DFID. Smaller amounts of assistance also flow
from Germany's Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) through its Office of United
States Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA), the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and the Embassy of Japan. The
Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) also provided about US$30 million in
assistance for the first time in late 2008. The primary conduit of all donor assistance, except that
of SADC, is the NGO community. This encompasses more than 50 different international and
national NGOs involved in humanitarian relief programs in the country. Many of these NGOs
also receive funding from contributions of individuals living in Europe and North America. The
SADC funding flowed through the government.

26.      Most of these donors also intend to contribute funding for agricultural support during
the 2009/10 summer cropping season. The EU already projects support at around US$30 million
and DFID anticipates the provision at least US$10 million in inputs and related rural livelihood
assistance. FAO has started to compile these plans and coordinate the allocation of assistance to
smallholder farming regions in the country. FAO has proposed plans for assisting 600,000
households in the smallholder farming areas (of the 800,000 needy households identified by
government) with enough inputs to plant 0.75 hectares each. To date, however, only one-third of
the planned budget for this program has been pledged. It is unlikely that significant additional

                                                 5
resources will be forthcoming. The GFRP commitment would increase the resources pledged to
date by about 20 percent.

27.      The Government of Zimbabwe has confirmed its commitment to the objectives of the
project and agreed to cooperate with the World Bank to assure that the objectives of the project
are accomplished. The Government has also confirmed that it has no objection to the carrying
out of the project by the designated recipient, GRM International Limited.

C. World Bank Response

C1. The Bank's Strategy for Emergency Support

28.       Zimbabwe is currently in non-accrual status and hence is not eligible for International
Development Authority (IDA) funding. It is a Lower Income Country Under Stress (LICUS)
experiencing a severe economic crisis, compounded by a food crisis which is likely to last at
least until the next season's harvest, mid 2010. The country is also currently categorized as a
fragile state. Since Zimbabwe is in arrears, such emergency activities cannot be supported with
regular IDA and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) resources and
operations.

29.      The Bank will support the ZEAIP in the amount of US$7.0 million, to be financed out
of the FPCR Core MDTF. The proposed activity will provide 300,000 farmers each with 10 kg
of improved maize seeds in order to increase maize production and household food security. This
will reduce Zimbabwe's dependence on maize imports and food aid in the future. This project is
congruent with the agricultural sector revitalization plan outlined in the STERP. The project will
be implemented in close coordination with the related input supply efforts of other donors, and is
supported by, and closely coordinated with, the proposed State and Peace-Building Fund (SPF)
resourced Zimbabwe Community-Based Transitional Recovery Support Project (CTRSP) being
prepared by the Bank to provide complementary fertilizer.

30.      The project is viewed as a temporary commitment to established input supply programs
necessary to resolve the national food crisis. The project will provide a route to sustained
improvements in food production especially among poorer households most likely to have
experienced food deficits over the past year. This will be achieved by facilitating direct access to
seeds. In addition, the project will help Zimbabwe start the process of re-establishing rural retail
markets for agricultural inputs by supporting the implementation of an input voucher program.

C2. Project Development Objective

31.     The objective of the project is to increase access to improved seeds among 300,000
smallholder farmers farming in targeted food-insecure communal lands of Zimbabwe.




                                                 6
C3. Summary of Project Components

32.      The project will contribute to multi-donor efforts to provide agricultural inputs to poorer
smallholder farmers in order to expand maize production and household food security. The
project will have two major components: (i) the provision of improved maize seeds necessary to
expand planted area and improve crop yields, and (ii) project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation. The project will be implemented over an 18 month period in a cross section of
communal farming areas which are in the process of being identified in conjunction with the
FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. The grant recipient and main implementing agency for the
project is GRM International Limited (GRM), an experienced private sector company with
substantial experience with the management of input distribution under humanitarian programs
in Zimbabwe. GRM has successfully implemented a series of agricultural development programs
in Zimbabwe during the past ten years. During the past five years, GRM has led the
implementation of DFID's Protracted Relief Program.

33.       The design of this project has taken close account of the extensive experience gained,
during the past 20 years, by government, donors and NGOs, as well as the role that GRM has
played as an implementing agency, in distributing improved seeds to needy households in the
country. The distribution of agricultural inputs to smallholder farmers became a common relief
strategy following the severe 1991/92 drought. Since drought is endemic, particularly in the
outlying regions of the country, one area or another generally received assistance with input
delivery in the majority of years. The recent economic decline brought a more consistent
implementation of these efforts. As a result, the distribution networks for seed targeted under this
project are now well established, and well honed throughout the supply chain under the PRP
initiative. This includes the distribution of seed by the seed companies to district storage points,
the transfer of the seed at these points to the responsible NGOs, the accounting system for
verifying the transfers, the distribution of the seeds to the beneficiary farmers, and the oversight
and reporting arrangements to ensure that the targeted farmers have received their allotments. In
addition, periodic independent assessments of the various elements of the program have
confirmed its reliability and satisfactory performance. The participatory identification of needy
households is a common annual practice under the PRP, and is discussed in more detail below.
This project provides an additional resource to this established distribution program.

Component 1: Provision of Improved Seeds (US$6.1 million)

34.       This component provides support for the distribution of improved maize seeds in close
coordination with Zimbabwe's humanitarian relief programs through two methods outlined in
the sub-components below. The project will be implemented by GRM in parallel with the PRP,
which is the largest and most consistent single source of agriculture assistance and input
distribution for smallholders in Zimbabwe. Under GRM management, the PRP has been
providing poorer, small-scale farmers with seed and fertilizer for the past four years. The PRP
also provides advice on conservation farming, assistance with water and sanitation, and funding
for rural programs to ameliorate the effects of HIV/AIDS. The successful implementation of



                                                 7
these efforts has recently encouraged participation in the PRP from the Governments of
Australia, Netherlands, and the European Commission.

35.     Within the framework of the PRP, the FPCR Core MDTF funding, under this project,
will support the purchase and distribution of approximately 3000 tons of improved maize seeds.
While the project offers a substantial economic payoff simply through the distribution of
improved maize seeds, these gains may be multiplied through the complementary fertilizer that is
expected to be available through the PRP as proposed by DFID and its collaborating partners.4

36.      Sub-component 1.1: Direct Distribution of Maize Seeds (US$5.4 million). The
project will pay for the purchase and distribution costs for approximately 2,750 tons of improved
maize seeds to be directly delivered to smallholder households classified as food insecure. The
seeds will be purchased through tender from domestic and regional seed producers who own
certified seed of varieties released for sale in Zimbabwe, and suitable for production in the
country's smallholder production zones.

37.      The seed distribution will be targeted toward rural farm households based in
Zimbabwe's Communal Lands who have been unable to produce enough grain during the
2008/09 summer cropping season to meet their family consumption requirements. Higher
priority will be provided to female headed households, and those with high dependency ratios
caused by HIV/AIDS or similar health problems. These criteria coincide with the recent efforts
of the PRP to target the neediest households in rural Zimbabwe, and correspond with the
selection factors participating NGOs have been using during the past five years. In most cases,
upon entering a community, the NGO performs an inventory of needy households, and then
checks this in participatory discussion with members of the larger community. Village lists are
then revisited each year, and, in discussion with the communities and village committees, are
adjusted as needed. NGOs are currently in the process of performing this task to confirm which
households will qualify for seed in the coming agricultural season. The seed will only be
distributed in Zimbabwe's Communal Lands. No distribution will take place in resettled areas
where land rights may still be contested.

38.       The tendering for the seed and its distribution to district level warehouses will be
undertaken by GRM, utilizing the services of an established procurement agent. This follows an
established procedure worked out with DFID under the PRP and regularly employed over the
past five years, during which period this agent performed fully satisfactorily. GRM, with the
expertise of the procurement agent, will be responsible for drafting procurement documentation
acceptable to the World Bank, and for implementing the tender on GRM's behalf. Both purchase
and distribution of the seeds to the district level warehouses (for subsequent pick-up and
distribution to the farmers by the NGOs), which represents a significant share of the total costs,
will be completed within four months of grant effectiveness. The distribution of the seeds will be
undertaken by up to 20 NGOs who are to be contracted by GRM under the project to manage
designated seed distribution operations in various parts of the country. Distribution to the

4
  The input distribution program proposed in the STERP calls for 800,000 farmers to receive 10 kg maize seed and
100 kg of fertilizer. However, the resources for this are not available. Current estimates suggest there may be just
enough funding (with GFRP support) to provide 600,000 farmers with 10 kg of maize seed and up to 50 kg of
fertilizer.

                                                          8
farmers must be completed by mid November to meet summer planting requirements.
Correspondingly, most of the funds due the NGOs will be disbursed before the end of the 2009
calendar year. The selection of regions and wards to be assisted will be managed by GRM in
conjunction with the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. The NGOs then select villages and
households for assistance according to the procedures described above. Given the recent history
of these efforts, much of this process has already been completed. The donors, NGOs and FAO
Emergency Coordination Unit are in the process of confirming allocations for the 2009/10
summer season. Each designated household will receive 10 kg of certified maize seeds.
Approximately 275,000 farm households will be assisted. GRM has provided for additional staff
under the project as field monitors to ensure a high level of monitoring and oversight.


39.      Sub-component 1.2: Voucher Based Seeds Distribution (US$0.7 million). The
project will additionally finance the purchase and distribution of approximately 250 tons of
hybrid maize seed through rural retail shops in exchange for vouchers. This is a pilot effort to
work with the national seed industry to rebuild its retail distribution systems. However, it should
be noted that the use of vouchers for seed distribution is not new. Several NGOs including
CARE and Catholic Relief Services ran voucher programs for several years before the economy
so severely deteriorated in 2007. And the use of vouchers for a much wider range of commercial
transactions was very common by late 2008.

40.       The seeds targeted for the voucher program will be purchased through tender,
undertaken by GRM, utilizing the services of the procurement agent, and following the same
procedures as under Component 1.1 above. The seeds will be delivered through retail shops
jointly identified by the seed companies (or their wholesale agents) and the NGOs operating in
the targeted districts. The tender will include the supply of the vouchers by the seed companies.
The seed companies (or wholesale agents) will receive approximately 20 percent of their
payment upon receipt of the contract, but will only receive the remainder of their payment upon
delivery of the redeemed vouchers back to GRM. Most of these payments, both to the seed
companies (or wholesalers) and to the NGOs, will also be made before the end of calendar year
2009.

41.     GRM will contract experienced NGOs to distribute the vouchers to needy households
using the same criteria outlined above under sub-component 1.1 for direct distribution. Each
farmer will receive a voucher redeemable for 10 kg of certified maize seeds at a designated retail
shop. Approximately 25,000 households are expected to gain access to seeds through these
vouchers. GRM has added an additional staff field position that will be dedicated to overseeing
and monitoring the seed voucher program.

Component 2. Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 0.9 million)

42.      The grant will be provided to GRM, which will be responsible for implementing all
aspects of the project. GRM was originally hired by DFID to lead the PRP following an intensive
tendering and evaluation process. The decision to use GRM as grantee to implement ZEAIP
assures access to the skills of a well experienced supervisory and implementation institution
linked with more than 20 NGOs in the country. The coordination of ZEAIP with DFID's

                                                9
continuing PRP program multiplies the gains being achieved through these investments. It also
ensures that the extremely tight time constraints on competitively acquiring the seeds, and then
distributing them against ambitious objectives of reaching the neediest households for planting in
this summer season, can be met. The ZEAIP provision of maize seeds is likely to be
complemented by the provision of fertilizer funded by DFID, the proposed SPF-funded CTRSP,
and other donor support through the PRP framework.

43.      GRM will contract an established procurement agent to tender on GRM's behalf for all
seed to be acquired and distributed under the project. As indicated above, GRM will directly
contract experienced NGOs to identify targeted households and distribute seeds and vouchers to
these farmers on a timely basis, according to the requirements of components 1.1 and 1.2. A
sub-set of these NGOs will also be contracted by GRM to monitor the satisfactory
implementation of the seed voucher program. GRM is expected to receive monthly reporting of
field progress from each NGO, and in turn, file quarterly and end of project progress and
financial reports.

44.      GRM will be responsible for assuring completion of a project impact assessment. They
will contract an independent entity unconnected with all implementing agencies to do the
assessment, and to this end will prepare terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. These terms of
reference will also be discussed with DFID and other donors working in conjunction with the
FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. The terms of reference will then be reviewed by the World
Bank. The evaluation will be funded by the grant and, will be completed no later than January
31, 2011. In addition, GRM will be responsible for preparing a Completion Report to be
submitted no later than six months after the Project Closing Date.

45.     GRM's operating costs to implement the project will be financed under the project (see
paragraph 30, Annex 4).

Eligibility for Processing Under OP/BP 8.0

46.      Consistent with OP/BP 8.00, the activities planned under this project are intended to
address a food security emergency in Zimbabwe. This problem results from inadequate levels of
production, and the severe difficulty Zimbabwe faces trying to find enough money for expensive
food imports. The project will directly contribute to improving the levels of maize production
and consumption of households who have previously experienced difficulty producing enough
grain to meet their family consumption requirements. The food deficits experienced by rural
farm households in areas of low population density are the most expensive to resolve through
imports. During the recent January-April pre-harvest hunger period, food aid deliveries to these
people cost approximately US$500 per ton.

47.     The success of this project depends on the flexible and accelerated procedures allowed
under OP/BP 8.00, particularly with respect to project preparation, safeguards compliance,
procurement, and financial management and disbursement arrangements. Without this
provision, the project resources would not be mobilized quickly enough to address the
emergency food security crisis. The FAO Emergency Coordination Unit has asked all donors and
NGOs to finalize their commitments to the 2009/10 summer season input delivery program by

                                               10
July 2009. The accelerated procedures are necessary to meet this deadline. These also facilitate
the planning of complementary investments in fertilizer supply which will multiply the success
of this effort.



C4. Consistency with Country Strategy

48.       The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for Zimbabwe.

49.      Zimbabwe went into arrears with the Bank in 2000. After a low-level dialogue in the
ensuing years, the Bank prepared a one-year Interim Strategy Note (ISN) in August 2005, with
the objective of closing knowledge gaps and facilitating dialogue. A second ISN covering FY08-
09, which runs from July 2007 to June 2009, aims to strengthen Bank operational readiness to re-
engage quickly in Zimbabwe when conditions warrant. Key outcomes for this second ISN are
enhanced country knowledge, improved capacity, and increased harmonization with donors. A
Multi Donor Trust Fund has been established to support this work.

50.       Following the formation, in February 2009, of the new government, the Bank is
preparing a Programmatic MDTF to allow rapid response to requests for urgent assistance from
the Government. The Bank has also recently invoked OP/BP 8.00 in order to assure much
speedier and more streamlined processing of the Programmatic MDTF, and will subsequently
facilitate other reengagement steps.

51.     The support under the GFRP is being proposed as a contribution from the Bank in the
context of the government's priority program for enhancing food security, ahead of the
Programmatic MDTF.

C5.    Expected Outcomes

52.      The project will contribute to reduce Zimbabwe's dependence on food aid and
strengthen the capacity of poorer farm households to meet their grain consumption requirements.
Specifically, it is expected that 300,000 smallholder farm households will receive enough seeds
to plant 0.5 hectares. If 90 percent of this seed is planted, the project will have supported maize
production on 135,000 ha. Thirty percent of this is expected to represent a net addition of planted
area. Most of the remainder of the seed will replace old recycled seed thus offering a yield gain
of at least 20 percent. In sum, the project will contribute to a net increase in production of
approximately 44,000 tons of grain valued at more than USD 11.8 million5. This is equivalent to
an average gain of three 50 kg bags of maize per household. Additional gains can be achieved
insofar as this seed is complemented with the delivery of fertilizer.

53.     The project will also contribute to the re-establishment of seed sales through rural retail
shops. At least 40 rural retail shops are expected to stock seed as a result of this program.


5
 The current import parity price for maize is USD265 per ton. Additional charges accrue to breaking this into
smaller lots and transporting this to consumers in the rural market.

                                                        11
54.     Project outcome and output indicators, as well as monitoring and evaluation
arrangements, can be found in the Results Framework in Annex 2.



D. Appraisal of Project Activities

D1. Technical

55.      Zimbabwe is struggling to reestablish its national and household food security. In the
STERP, high priority is placed on providing agricultural inputs to farmers (particularly for the
production of maize and wheat) in order to stimulate the expansion of cropped area and average
grain yields. This would help the country reduce its dependence on cereal grain imports, a large
share of which now come in the form of expensive food aid.

56.      The expansion of production is also viewed as essential for improving household food
and nutrition security. Though there remain questions about the levels of migration to
neighboring countries, and from rural to urban areas, most observers believe that rural
smallholder farm families still account for the majority of the country's population. These
families encompass the majority of households needing food aid. Household food insecurity
resulting from the failure to produce enough grain is magnified by the lack of foreign currency
with which to purchase grains in the market. This project will directly contribute to improving
the food security of these needy rural households.

57.      One of the major casualties of the economic dislocation of recent years is the decline in
access to improved maize seeds. Shortly after Zimbabwe's independence in 1980, almost all
smallholder farmers planted hybrid maize seeds. Virtually 90 percent of maize area was
estimated to be planted to new varieties. Seed adoption data for the past season are not available.
However, available estimates derived from records of seed sales and distribution through
humanitarian relief programs suggest that only one-third of smallholder maize area may now be
planted to hybrids. While a small proportion of farmers have access to improved open pollinated
varieties, a large portion of land appears to have been planted to recycled hybrids. These quickly
lose their genetic purity and hybrid vigor after the second planting season. Correspondingly,
average smallholder maize yields have declined by 40 percent from 1.2 t per ha to around 800 kg
per ha. High priority is placed on expanding the distribution of improved maize seeds to
smallholder farmers.

58.      Another product of the recent economic problems in the country is the severe
deterioration of rural markets. Ten years ago, farmers could purchase hybrid maize seeds in
almost every significant business center in the country. Such purchases were a regular part of the
agricultural season. These markets were expanding with a growing choice of varieties and an
expanding range of seed companies selling stock. By the time of the 2008/09 planting season, all
of this had disappeared. It was still possible to find a few bags of seed in a limited number of
urban shops, but seed sales were no longer made in the rural market. The vast majority of sales
of improved maize seeds were made to the government or NGOs for targeted distribution
programs. Both government and the seed industry have expressed interest in re-establishing seed

                                                12
sales through rural retailers in the country. However this will take time and effort given that few
rural residents have access to foreign currency with which to purchase seed, and given that
companies face an incentive simply to sell larger lots to humanitarian distribution programs.
Priority is placed on pilot programs to begin to re-establish the retail seed market. Zimbabweans
are well accustomed to trade in vouchers and there exists a historical experience with voucher
redemption for seed in shops. This project logically seeks to build from this experience.

59.       The project design builds on the experience gained in humanitarian seed distribution
programs in Zimbabwe during the past 17 years. NGO involvement in seed distribution started in
earnest after the 1991/92 drought ­ said to be the worst in `living memory'. Multiple droughts
every few years thereafter led to the frequent resurrection of these free seed distribution
programs. Overall, free seed has been distributed to communal land farmers by a growing set of
NGOs for at least 12 of the last 17 years, and for each of the last five years, under the PRP. In
effect, the ZEAIP is being implemented through a well honed delivery system encompassing
participatory selection of needy households, well established seed procurement systems, clearly
defined distribution networks through provincial and district warehouses, or retail shops, in the
case of some past voucher programs.

60.      Overall, the project conforms to stated national priorities for expanding maize
production in the pursuit of national and household food security. The direct seed distribution
(Component 1.1) helps assure a large proportion of needy smallholder farmers gain access to the
best available improved varieties as quickly as possible. The pilot voucher program (Component
1.2) supports the re-establishment of rural input markets.

61.      The project has been discussed with officials in Zimbabwe's Ministry of Agriculture,
Mechanization and Irrigation Development which has expressed its support for the targets and
the strategy of the project. The Ministry directors understand that the project grant will be
provided to GRM and will be implemented with the assistance of approximately 20 NGOs.
These NGOs are expected to maintain good working relationships with local extension offices.
Support may also be provided by the Government's Department of Seed Services on seed
inspections. Tests by the latter may be reimbursed on a cost recovery basis. Otherwise, the
Government has no direct roles in project implementation. The Project has also been discussed
with the Ministry of Finance, which has confirmed its commitment to the objectives of the
Project, its no-objection to the implementation of the Project by GRM, and its undertaking not
ensure no interference in the Project. A letter agreement between Zimbabwe and the Bank,
confirming these undertakings has been submitted to the Bank.


D2. Economic and Financial

62.      The benefits from the proposed components derive primarily in the form of an increase
in household maize production. Based on historical experience, it is safe to assume that at least
90 percent of the seeds purchased under the project will ultimately be planted during the 2009/10
summer cropping season. A small portion of seeds may be lost or saved for later planting, if this
arrives too late. Conservatively, 30 percent of this seed is expected to contribute to an increase in
cropped area. Most of the remaining 70 percent will be used to replace seed derived from the

                                                 13
previous season's harvest. Much of this old seed is hybrid seed that has been recycled for several
years and thus lost its genetic integrity and hybrid vigor. Correspondingly, the project will
expand maize production due to both an increase in planted area and an increase in average
maize yields. For the purposes of the financial and economic analysis, approximately 30 percent
of the aggregate gain in production will be derived from the expansion of planted area (an area
and yield gain) and 70 percent will be derived from the improvement in yields on land that
would otherwise have been planted to deteriorating varieties. The value of this gain has been
measured in terms of the import parity price of maize currently estimated at US$265 per metric
ton. This reflects the fact that Zimbabwe is likely to remain a net maize importer for the next
season. The parity price is about one-half the cost of maize being distributed to households for
food aid. Thus, insofar as most of the additional grain will be consumed by the households
producing this, the parity price underestimates the aggregate gain achieved through this project
investment. Insofar as some of the grain is sold on the market, the import parity may marginally
over-estimate the net gain accruing to participating households. However, most recipients, and
thus most beneficiaries, are expected to be food deficit households who would otherwise have to
purchase their grains. Additional gains will accrue to this investment when the improved seed is
complemented with the distribution of fertilizer. However, these supplementary gains were not
taken into account in the economic analysis.


D3. Fiduciary: Governance Structure and Financial Management

63.       GRM is a private, for profit, company incorporated under the laws of England and
Wales and has been in operation for 20 years with a proven track record in Zimbabwe. It
provides comprehensive professional and technical services in all aspects of rural development
by drawing upon accumulated experience of a group of qualified specialist personnel with a
range of diverse skills and expertise in agricultural and livestock production and management.
GRM's services to the rural development sector encompass the identification, assessment, design
and management of development programs and projects in respect of agriculture, forestry and
livestock enterprises and associated technical training, agro-industrial development and
economic monitoring and evaluation programs throughout Southern Africa, including in
Zimbabwe. GRM is a wholly owned subsidiary of GRM International Group Limited ("GRM
Group"), a company also incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, which in turn owns
several companies in addition to GRM, including GRM International Pty Ltd. (Australia), GRM
International B.V. (Netherlands) and GRM International AB (Swedish), all of which are engaged
in similar activities to those of GRM. GRM Group is a wholly owned subsidiary of
Consolidated Press Holdings Limited, a private company registered in Australia and ultimately
owned by a prominent businessman, James Douglas Packer, an Australian national. The various
companies owned by GRM Group, including GRM, operate in Zimbabwe through a liaison
office6 in Harare.



6
 The liaison office has been duly authorized by the Zimbabwe Investment Authority on November 27, 2008 and
such authorization is valid until November 27, 2010. Such authorizations are normally provided for two year
periods. This is the second such authorization received by GRM and a new authorization will be requested before
November 2010. By this time, all project activities are expected to be completed.

                                                       14
64.      The preliminary Zimbabwe rapid public financial management assessment carried out in
March 2009 concluded that, "during the hyperinflationary period leading up to 2009, key
building blocks of the PFM system in Zimbabwe have degenerated, including the key financial
software (SAP ­ designated PFMS) underpinning budget execution, control and reporting)"7. It
is generally believed that most of the country's systems have, over the period, become
dysfunctional.

65.      The assessment of the financial management arrangements proposed for the
implementation of the ZEAIP noted the proven experience of GRM in the Zimbabwean context
in implementing similar operations. GRM has led the implementation of DFID's Protracted
Relief Program in Zimbabwe in the past five years. GRM has adequate organizational structures
supported by adequate numbers of relevantly qualified and experienced accounting staff. For this
project, GRM will draw on its staff located in Harare as well as its Regional Finance Manager
based in Pretoria, South Africa, as the head of accounting for the region. Overall oversight
responsibility for financial management matters of the project will be conducted out of GRM's
headquarters in London (U.K). There is an Administrative Manual for GRM which includes
guidelines on financial accounting procedures and the code of conduct. The procedures are
adapted to the local situation.

66.      GRM and GRM Group are audited annually by international auditors. The last three
years have been audited by an international independent auditor who has expressed unqualified
audit opinions on the financial statements for each year. The audit report for GRM for the years
ended June 30, 2007 and 2008 showed net profit of 62,739 and 392 GBP respectively. It is noted
that GRM is dependent on GRM Group's financial support to enable it to continue in business
and meet its liabilities as they fall due. Based on our review of the audited financial statements,
GRM Group as at June 30, 2008 had advanced a total of 2,207,502 GBP to GRM. In 2007 and
2008 the net worth of GRM was stated as -358,092 and -357,700 GBP respectively. On the other
hand, GRM Group's audit report showed net profit of 1.7m and 1.38m GBP for 2007 and 2008
financial years respectively and the net worth for the same years are 8.3m and 8.6m GBP
respectively. To mitigate the risks associated with making a grant to GRM given its financial
position, the Bank will require a guarantee from GRM's parent company, GRM Group, whereby
GRM Group agrees to guarantee absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably the obligations of
the Recipient under the Grant Agreement, including any refunds that might be payable under the
Grant Agreement. As a further mitigating factor, payments for expenditures under the major
seeds contracts estimated at $4.5 million equivalent will be disbursed by the Bank through the
direct payment or Special Commitment method. The other expenditures would be paid for out of
the Designated Account.

67.      Under the Project, the financial statements for ZEAIP will be audited separately, by
GRM's current auditors, who have been found acceptable to the Bank, under agreed terms of
reference. The audit will be conducted annually, and the audit report will be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of the financial year together with the auditor's
management letter and management's response there to



7
    Zimbabwe Rapid Public Financial Management Assessment Report, 23 March 2009.

                                                     15
68.      The overall conclusion of the financial management assessment is that GRM, together
with the guarantee of GRM Group and the direct payment method in respect of the major seeds
contracts, satisfies the minimum requirements of OP/BP 10.02 on financial management.




D4. Fiduciary: Procurement Management

69.      A procurement capacity assessment for GRM's office in Zimbabwe was carried out
from April 14 to 17, 2009. It was determined that, under the PRP, GRM utilizes the services of
an established procurement agent, and will continue to use the same agent under the project.
This will be on the basis of a single source procurement arrangement, justified by the
procurement agent's historical experience and demonstrated procurement capacity in Zimbabwe,
and on the fact that the project would represent a continuation of activities commenced under the
ongoing PRP initiative. The agent has proven its capacity, during the past five years, to procure
and ensure delivery of agricultural inputs to NGO programs being funded under the PRP on a
timely and efficient basis. Correspondingly, under emergency circumstances where time is of the
essence, the use of this company as the main procurement agent for this project was determined
to be adequate and appropriate.

70.      The NGOs will be selected under single source procedures for the following reasons.
The method and procedures that GRM used for the selection of NGOs for activities financed by
DFID under the PRP I and PRP II were reviewed and found to be satisfactory by the World
Bank. Specifically, under the PRP, pre-proposals were solicited by GRM from any NGO
interested in providing the requisite services (commonly seed and fertilizer distribution). GRM
conducted a review of the pre-proposals and identified a list of NGOs meeting the preliminary
qualification criteria. These NGOs were requested to submit more detailed proposals. GRM
evaluated these proposals and the selected 20 NGOs as qualified to undertake the tasks under the
PRP that are similar to those to be performed under the project. The NGOs to be contracted,
individually, under the GEAIP will be drawn from amongst the same 20.

71.      The procurement methods for the maize seeds would be Limited International Bidding
(LIB) for maize supply and distribution under Sub-Component 1.1, and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for maize and voucher supply and distribution under Sub-Component 1.2.
Procurement methods for the procurement agent and the NGOs under Sub-Components 1.1 and
1.2 will be single-sourced under the Consultants Guidelines. Procurement will satisfy the
provisions of OP/BP 8.00, and the relevant provisions of the "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 2006; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised
October 2006.

D5. Safeguards Policies

72.     Although the Pest Management Safeguard Policy is triggered, a "C" classification has
been agreed for the following reasons. The only use of pesticides is for the treatment of the

                                               16
seeds mostly against fungi and some soil insect pests. This treatment (mainly fungicide and
some insecticide based) is undertaken by the seed companies in their facilities designed for such
purposes, and includes the use of adequate protective equipment. The treatment is completed in
these facilities prior to distribution to the farmers and/or retail outlets. The seed companies are
well established local, regional and international entities accredited under Zimbabwean
regulations to supply seed, and required to treat seed safely and effectively. At least four of the
prospective suppliers have entities with international reputations and with branch offices in
several neighboring countries including South Africa. They have been leaders in research,
particularly in the development of seed hybrids suitable for local conditions. The treatment of
seed with pesticides has been standard practice in Zimbabwe for many years, and is fully familiar
to the smallholder farmers. The pesticide treatment involves the use of fungicides and
insecticides with technical active ingredients that are slightly hazardous (Pirimiphos-methyl is
WHO class III) or unlikely to present acute hazard (Captan-based fungicides are WHO class U)
according to the WHO recommended classification of pesticides by hazard. Project
implementation will be subject to the application of the Zimbabwe Pesticide Act of 2006. The
seed tender documents highlight the fact that the seed treatment practices of the competing
companies must meet national standards and be subject to inspection.
73.      It should also be noted that the project will comprise a one-time purchase to deal with
the current food crisis, and involves the provision of seeds sufficient to produce subsistence
quantities of grain to about 300,000 poor households. None of these seeds are genetically
modified.

74.      While the project does not finance the provision of fertilizer, it is likely that many of the
beneficiaries will receive support for micro-dosing. This will involve the application of very
small quantities (10 to 20 kg) of Nitrogen fertilizer, which is about 20 to 25% of the
recommended rate. The application is so small, and the distribution of the farmers so widely
spread, that the risks of runoff are negligible.

75.       All beneficiaries under the project will be limited to households occupying farms in
communal lands. No households benefitting from land acquired through resettlement will be
eligible for assistance under the project.

76.      Under the Zimbabwe Communal Land Act, the term "Communal Land" is defined as:
"land which, immediately before the 1st February, 1983, was Tribal Trust Land in terms of the
Tribal Trust Land Act, 1979 (No.6 of 1979), subject to any additions thereto or subtractions there
from made [as permitted under the Act] ". Moreover, the Act provides that "Communal Land
shall be vested in the President, who shall permit it to be occupied and used in accordance with
this Act." The Minister (Minister of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development or any
other Minister to whom the President may, from time to time, assign the administration of the
Act), by statutory instrument, publishes a description of the area of Communal Land, and the
areas consisting of Communal Lands are well known. No commercial or resettled areas in
Zimbabwe have ever been re-designated as Communal Land. Therefore, the risk that
"Communal Land" would have been illegally expropriated or taken from commercial farmers is
considered nil.



                                                 17
Safeguard Policies Triggered

Safeguard Policies Triggered                                  Yes            No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                        X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                         X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                              X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                  X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                             X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                      X

D6. Lessons from Experience

77.      The design of the project takes into account lessons learned from the implementation of
seed distribution programs in Zimbabwe over the past ten years. The most relevant lessons
include:

     a. Seed delivery must be conducted in a timely manner if farmers are to plant these inputs
        with the first summer season planting rains. Late planting of maize seeds has been
        proven to reduce average yields.

     b. Purchased seeds must be certified by national seed services units to be sure this is
        genetically pure, physically pure and of appropriate germination levels. This seed must
        be only of varieties released for production in Zimbabwe. The seed should be well
        labeled with such information as the variety name, whether it is hybrid or open
        pollinated, maturity period and lot number to help farmers understand what they are
        receiving, and ensure traceability if anything goes wrong.

     c. The seed distribution should be targeted in coordination with the efforts of other donors
        and NGOs to ensure farmers do not receive multiple packs from different donors.

     d. Strong monitoring is necessary to ensure agricultural inputs are supplied by the seed
        companies on a timely basis and distributed to farmers on time.

     e. While the distribution of seeds alone is beneficial, additional benefit and sustainability
        will be achieved if the supply of seeds is complemented by the provision of technical
        packages that include extension, and fertilizer where feasible.




                                                   18
D7. Policy Exemptions

78.     No policy exemptions are required under this project.

E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan

E1. Implementation Arrangements

79.     The project will be implemented in parallel with the PRP, for which additional funding
was provided by DFID in 2008 for an additional three years.

80.       Parallel implementation with the PRP allows the project to be supported by collateral
investments being provided by DFID, Australian Aid (AusAID), the Netherlands, the European
Union, and the proposed SPF-funded CTRSP described above. The TF grant will provide the
main source of maize seeds for the same farmers DFID intends to target with nitrogen based
fertilizer in order to further improve household production levels and food security. The AusAID
financing is also expected to increase the quantity of fertilizer available under this program.

81.       The identification of districts, wards and village communities to receive the seeds (and
fertilizer) will be coordinated with the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. This will help ensure
that seed inputs financed under this TF are also complementary with related agricultural inputs
and technical packages provided by other donors outside the PRP. This includes all major NGOs
operating in the country.

82.      DFID has already chosen GRM as the implementing agent to manage its programs
under the PRP. GRM was selected based on an international tender with competitive bidding for
this responsibility. Under this arrangement, GRM utilizes the services of the same procurement
agent as proposed for this project for purposes of managing larger procurement tenders (such as
those of bulk purchase and distribution of seed). This arrangement would be continued under
ZEAIP (as described above under paragraph 62).

83.       It is a major advantage that GRM already has several years of experience supervising
input distribution and related relief and livelihood programs in the country. This is one reason
GRM won a new tender to continue leading the implementation of the PRP.

84.       GRM will be responsible for purchasing all seeds to be distributed under the program
through competitive tender utilizing the services of the procurement agent as indicated above. It
is anticipated that separate tenders will be employed for the seeds destined for direct distribution
and the seeds destined for delivery through the voucher program. GRM will also contract up to
20 NGOs to identify the eligible households and to distribute the seeds. GRM already works with
more than 20 NGOs who are deemed to be providing adequate services. A small subset of these
NGOs will also be contracted to help implement the seed voucher program. These agencies will
select local retail outlets in coordination with the seed company, or associated wholesale agent,
involved in implementing the voucher program, deliver the seed vouchers to selected
households, and monitor the redemption process to be sure this is timely and efficiently run.



                                                19
85.      Recipient households will be selected by NGOs from village lists that are already
available and are currently being updated by the NGOs according to the consultative procedures
described above. In congruence with the PRP program, these households will be amongst the
poorest farm households in each community. They are expected to have failed to have produced
enough grain in 2009 to meet their family consumption requirements.8 Female headed
households, those with higher dependency ratios and farm households affected by HIV/Aids will
be favored

86.      The evaluation of this project will be financed under the TF grant and managed by
GRM. However the evaluation will be contracted out to a qualified, independent entity with no
association with the project or any of the implementing agencies participating in the project. The
evaluation may be linked with broader efforts under the PRP to assess the impacts of
complementary investments in seeds and fertilizer supply for the larger Protracted Relief
Programme. However, the payoffs to the GFRP investment in seeds will remain distinguishable.

E2. Project Cost

87.     Summary costs by categories are presented in the table below, and details are provided
in Annex 4. The project cost is expected to be US$7.0 million: US$6.1 for component 1 and
US$0.9 for component 2.

                         Summary of Project Cost by Expenditure Category
           Category                Amount of the Grant        Percentage to be Financed
                               Allocated (expressed in US$)      (Inclusive of taxes)
Component 1                    6.1                          100
(1) Goods and services for the 6.1                          100
seed and voucher delivery and
advisory/monitoring program
Component 2                    0.9                          100
(1) Operating costs and        0.9                          100
services for evaluation
Total                          7.0                          100


E3. Financial Management Arrangements

88.      Project funds will flow as a grant from the Trust Fund account at the World Bank, and
be disbursed in part as advances to the segregated USD Designated Account to be opened and
maintained by GRM at HSBC in London, and in part as direct payments or under Special
Commitments. Disbursement of advances will be based on quarterly interim unaudited financial
reports (IFRs). Upon the effectiveness of the Grant Agreement, an advance will be made to the
Designated Account for expenditures to be financed out of the advance forecast for the first 6
months of the project life. Disbursements for expenditures under the major seeds contract for
direct seed distribution to farmers, estimated at $4.5 million equivalent, will be made through the
direct payment or Special Commitment method, and not through the Designated Account
8
 Approximately one metric ton per household. This is based on an average household size of 6 people and an
average consumption level of 165 kg per person including grain losses.

                                                      20
Advance. The reimbursement disbursement method will also be available should GRM
prefinance any eligible expenditures, e.g., those covered by the retroactive financing provision.

89.       GRM may receive retroactive financing for payments made on or after July 1, 2009, but
prior to signing of the grant agreement, up to a maximum amount of US$60,000 equivalent. This
financing represents less than one percent of the total budget committed to the project. The
retroactive financing is expected to cover the costs of initial activities of NGOs to confirm lists
of targeted farmers (under Component 1) and operational costs funded under Component 2
associated with the drafting and advertizing of tenders for seed, and is essential to assure the
timely purchase and delivery of the maize seeds.


90.      GRM will have the project financial statements audited annually by competent and
independent external auditors appointed using the World Bank Guidelines for the Selection of
Consultants with terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank. Annual project audited
financial statements will be required, and audit reports together with the auditor's management
letter and management response to the letter will need to be submitted to the Bank not later than
6 months after the end of GRM's accounting year.


E4. Procurement Arrangements

91.     Guidelines for Procurement and Guidelines for Selection of Consultants: All
procurement to be carried out under the project will be undertaken in accordance with
requirements set out in the Guidelines for Procurement and Consultants for the World Bank, both
published in May 2004, and revised in October 2006.

92.     Particular Methods for Procurement of Goods and Services: Given the emergency
nature of the project, and limited number of suppliers who are currently registered to supply
maize seed in Zimbabwe, it is proposed that procurement be carried out through LIB for seed
destined for direct distribution. The procurement of maize seeds for retail distribution will be
carried out through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Simplified bidding
documents will be used in both cases. The procurement will also take into account the market
prices for procurement of commodities as described in the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. For procurement of minor goods and services and equipment, the shopping
procurement method as described in the Procurement Guidelines will be utilized as appropriate.
NGOs and the procurement agent will be procured following single source selection.

93.      Review by the Bank of procurement decisions: The Bank will conduct prior review of
all contracts bid under LIB and NCB, and all contracts involving single-source procurement.
Prior review will also be required for the seed voucher program contract and all the consultant
contracts subject to the thresholds described in Annex 5, paragraph 19. All other contracts will
be subject to post review by the Bank.




                                                21
E5. Anti-corruption Guidelines

94.     GRM will carry out the Project in accordance with the Bank's Anti-corruption
Guidelines dated October 15, 2006.

E6. Arrangements for Bank Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation

95.       As required under the OP/BP 8.00, the shift from ex-ante risk mitigation and control
measures requires the task team to intensify supervision efforts through frequent missions and
ex-post reviews. Project implementation will be supervised by AFTAR, utilizing a combination
of field-based international and local staff in the Malawi and Harare offices respectively, as well
as staff from Washington. A minimum of four supervision missions will be undertaken during
the 18 month period of implementation. As necessary, missions will be timed to examine key
fiduciary issues ­ e.g. seed tendering and NGO sub-contracting as well as the redemption of
vouchers. However, all supervision missions will examine all aspects of project implementation.
Supervision requirements are fully funded under the GFRP.

96.       The activities funded under this project will be completed in 18 months and the project
account will close in 24 months. The main activities of the project ­ seed purchase and
distribution ­ will be completed in the first 8 months. The impact evaluation is targeted for
initiation near the end of the harvest period (approximately 14 months from the date of
effectiveness). These results should be available shortly before the project ends.


F.    Project Risks and Mitigation Measures

97.       This is a simple project based on well established principles of seed distribution honed
from many years of such efforts in Zimbabwe. The country initiated large-scale seed distribution
after the 1991/92 drought, and has run such distribution programs during at least eight of the last
fifteen years. This includes a consistent run of seed distribution programs for relief purposes
during the past five years.

98.      The main risks relate to the political economy situation in Zimbabwe. National seed
markets have been severely disrupted by the combination of hyper-inflation, price controls and
trade controls. These constraints have now been lifted with the decontrol of markets, and shift to
the acceptance of foreign convertible currencies. However, the operation of wholesale and retail
trade remains limited. Nonetheless, during the period of appraisal, both input suppliers and
wholesale companies suggested these retail markets are operational enough to handle the
voucher program.

99.     NGO operations were largely shut down in early 2008 during and just after the
Presidential and Parliamentary elections. However, these operations have now been openly
accepted by the new government, and most NGOs involved in relief and rehabilitation operations
seem to be functioning normally.




                                                22
100.     The main uncertainty revolves around the future of the new Government. If this
government fails, markets and NGO operations may again be disrupted. This could severely
undermine the implementation of this project. The risk for the overall project would become
substantial. At this stage, however, there are no signs of this failure. This risk has been mitigated
by the fact that the main project activities will completed by the end of the 2009 calendar year.
Risks                   Description of risk                  Risk          Risk Mitigation Measures                  Rating of residual
                                                             Rating                                                  risk
Country and Sector Level Risks
Macro-economic          · The use of foreign                 S             · This is not expected to disrupt the     S
framework               convertible currencies is ended                    seed distribution per se, though it
                        and hyper-inflation reignites.                     would reduce the impact of efforts to
                                                                           rebuild input supply chains.
Interference in the     · The government has                 S             · To reduce this possibility, the donor   S
operations of           previously interfered with, or                     program is being prepared in full
participating NGOs      even stopped, relief operations                    consultation with the government, and
                        of NGOs on the grounds that                        will complement the government's
                        the NGOs are operating outside                     own programs as outlined in the
                        their defined mandate and/or                       STERP. Government has also
                        siding with opposition parties.                    confirmed its support for this
                        No such restrictions currently                     operation.
                        apply
Interference in the     · Price and trade controls           S             · Tenders are placed early to lock in     M
operations of input     restrict the operations of seed                    seed purchases
markets                 markets

                        · Government declares that all       S             · Maintain good communication about       S
                        seed must be delivered to its                      the aims and operations of the
                        own programs.                                      agricultural recovery program.
Country governance      · Dissolution of the                 S             · Maintain good communication with        S
                        government leading to political                    government on the program design and
                        chaos and/or the                                   objectives
                        reestablishment of market
                        controls.
Drought                 · Zimbabwe faces a regular           S             · The project will only distribute open   S
                        risk of severe drought. This                       pollinated, early maturing maize
                        risk is higher in drier regions of                 varieties in natural regions IV and V.
                        the country (natural regions IV                    The project will distribute early and
                        and V) package scheme.                             medium maturing maize varieties in
                                                                           higher rainfall regions of the country.
Losses to insects and   · Targeted yield is not              M             · The seed tender will consider           L
diseases                achieved due to plant disease,                     varietal disease resistance and
                        armyworm, or related pest                          extension workers will be encouraged
                        infestation.                                       to report pest problems on a timely
                                                                           basis.
Project Specific Risks
Technical/Design       · Farmers are hungry enough           M             · In areas suffering from severe grain    L
                        to wash and consume the seed                       deficits, seed distribution will be
                        being provided                                     coordinated with food aid distribution.
                                                                           · Good communication between seed         M
                        · Seed companies refuse to           S             companies and NGOs facilitating the
                        work with retailers to stock                       implementation of the voucher
                        seed for the voucher program                       program
                                                                                                                     M
                        · Seed companies fail to             S
                        provide seed on a timely basis                     · Seed tenders are completed early and
                        due to slow processing or                          monitored closely
                        delayed imports
                                                                           · Vouchers will be printed by the         S
                        · Counterfeiting of vouchers         S             tender winner, countersigned by GRM
                        and collection of fakes                            and countersigned again by the
                                                                           distributing NGO.

Implementation          · The coverage of 300,000            M             · Planning begins early in order to get   L
capacity                farmers is more than the                           all seed into the hands of farmers
                        implementing agencies can                          before the start of rains; close

                                                                      23
Risks                 Description of risk                Risk          Risk Mitigation Measures                    Rating of residual
                                                         Rating                                                    risk
                      handle.                                          monitoring of progress
Financial             · The risk of GRM not being        M             · GRM Group will guarantee                  L
Management            able to meet its financial                       absolutely, unconditionally and
                      obligations and possibility of                   irrevocably the obligations of GRM
                      attachment of grant proceeds:                    under the Grant Agreement, including
                      GRM's financial position as at                   any refunds that might be payable
                      June 30, 2008 is such that it                    under the Grant Agreement and
                      must depend on GRM Group's                       payments for major seeds contracts
                      financial support to meet its                    will be disbursed through direct
                      liabilities as they fall due.                    payment arrangements (or special
                                                                       commitment).
                      · Inadequate seed inventory
                      and distribution controls may      M             · The winner of the tender to supply        L
                      result in the seeds not reaching                 seeds will be responsible for printing,
                      the intended beneficiaries.                      distributing and collecting the
                                                                       vouchers.
                      · The risk of inadequate
                      controls over the vouchers         S             · The major share of the payment to         M
                      production, distribution and                     the seed supplier will be paid only after
                      redemption.                                      the right vouchers are returned.
                                                                       Vouchers will be counter signed by
                                                                       GRM and the participating NGOs.

                                                                       · GRM and the participating NGOs
                                                                       have been involved with this kind of
                                                                       activity with a good track record and
                                                                       the fiduciary due diligence of the GRM
                                                                       liaison office has been done.

Procurement           · Procurement capacity risk is     S             · Procurement capacity: Maintain            M
                        substantial unless GRM                         involvement of existing procurement
                        continues to use the services                  agent who has provided procurement
                        of its established                             support to the DFID funded PRPI and
                        procurement agent for the                      PRPII.
                        main seed procurements as
                        is the case for activities                     · Payments under large seed contracts       M
                        under the PRP                                  will be made by direct payment by the
                      · Payment delay risks exist.                     Bank to the supplier (or special
                        Until recently Central Bank      M             commitment). For all other payments,
                        controlled payments.                           GRM will maintain a Designated
                        Commercial banks are now                       Account in a commercial bank in
                        able to hold clients funds                     London and make payments from this
                        and make payments. Clients                     account. GRM will make payments to
                        are however not sure if                        NGO overseas accounts. GRM will
                        payments may not be                            only make quarterly advances to NGOs
                        withheld.                                      and track these with quarterly financial
                                                                       plans and monthly expenditure reports.
Overall Risk rating                                                                                                S
Abbreviations: L=low; M=moderate; S=substantial; H=high




G.      Terms and Conditions

101.      Effectiveness Conditions:

        (a) Conclusion of a Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and GRM International
        Group Limited providing guarantee by the latter of the Recipient's obligations under the
        Grant Agreement;


                                                                  24
         (b) Provision of Representation Letter by Guarantor and Recipient regarding their legal
         ownership structure and financial situation;

         (c)     Written confirmation of Zimbabwe's support for the Project9;

         (d)     Legal opinions on Grant Agreement and Guarantee Agreement;

         (e)     Adoption by Recipient of a satisfactory chart of accounts for the Project.

102.     Financial Covenants: The standard requirement for the recipient to maintain a
satisfactory financial management system and have the recipients financial statements for the
project audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will apply.

103.           Other Covenants:

         (a)   Recipient to employ NGOs in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines to be
         responsible for distribution of seeds (or vouchers) to targeted farmers, and monitoring of
         seeds distribution and voucher distribution/redemption.

         (b) Recipient to ensure operation of voucher system under arrangements acceptable to
         the Bank.

         (c) Guarantor to guarantee absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably the obligations of
         the Recipient under the Grant Agreement.

         (d) Recipient to ensure the carrying out by independent consultants under TORs
         satisfactory to the Bank, of a Project impact evaluation by no later than January 31, 2011.




9
    Received on July 15, 2009.

                                                     25
Annex 1: Description of Project Components and Implementation

Zimbabwe Emergency Agricultural Input Project

Background
1.      Zimbabwe, a net food exporter during the 1980s, has seen a cumulative decline in food
production over the past decade. The country has now become a major food importer. This
circumstance has been accelerated by a combination of political and economic instability leading
to hyper-inflation and the implementation of trade controls. The volatility of international grain
prices has worsened this predicament. In 2008, Zimbabwe harvested an estimated 500,000 metric
tons of maize or about 28 percent of the domestic requirement of 1.8 million metric tons, leaving
a deficit of 1.3 million metric tons. The country struggled to find the resources to import food
and ultimately increased its dependence on food aid.

2.      The establishment of new government in February 2009 has brought the initiation of a
new economic strategy. The new government has acted quickly in announcing major policy
reforms designed to establish fiscal discipline and improve the business environment. These
reforms are outlined in the STERP. Price and trade controls affecting the agricultural sector have
largely been lifted, and the authorization to use convertible foreign currencies has brought hyper-
inflation quickly under control. Yet the risks of policy reversal remain significant, and the 2009
budget remains substantially underfunded. Most donor assistance continues to be allocated
through humanitarian relief programs, largely implemented by NGOs.

3.     All projections now indicate that the food security crisis will continue following the
2008/09 summer cropping season. The government targeted the production of over 2 million
metric tons of maize. The latest official estimates suggest 1.2 million tons were produced and
some unofficial estimates place the production level as low as 400,000 tons.

4.      During the 1990s, the seed companies regularly sold approximately 35,000 tons of hybrid
maize seeds ­ enough to plant at least 1.7 million hectares. By comparison, less than 12,000 tons
of maize seeds were available for the 2008/09 planting season, including stocks imported for
distribution through NGO relief programs. Ten years ago fertilizer companies sold 600,000 tons
of fertilizer for a range of commercial crops including maize. This past season, fewer than
70,000 tons of fertilizer was available on domestic markets, including all humanitarian program
imports.

5.      Zimbabwean farmers do not want to keep relying on food aid. But even the highest
official estimates suggest that the country will still produce only 2/3 of its requirements. The
majority of farmers will still not produce enough to satisfy their family requirements; much less
sell grain into the market. This severely restricts their capacity to purchase improved agricultural
inputs for the coming planting season. And even those farmers with cash will find it difficult to
purchase inputs from rural retail shops, because the limited input stocks are most likely to be
sold through urban outlets and perhaps a few major business centers. Wholesale to retail trade of
agricultural inputs remains virtually non-existent in the rural market.

                                                26
6.      Objective and Rationale. The objective of this project is to increase access to improved
seeds among 300,000 smallholder farmers in targeted food-insecure communal areas of
Zimbabwe. This will reduce the need of Zimbabwe to allocate scare foreign exchange to grain
imports, and reduce the country's reliance on expensive food aid. The distribution of improved
seeds will contribute to existing multi-donor efforts to provide seeds and fertilizer to poorer
smallholder farmers in order to expand maize production and household food security. The
project will have two major components: (i) the provision of improved maize seeds necessary to
expand planted area and improve crop yields and (ii) project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation. The project will be implemented over an 18 month period in a cross section of
communal farming areas to be determined in conjunction with the FAO Emergency Coordination
Unit.

Component 1 (Part A): Provision of Improved Seeds (US$6.1 million)

7.      In coordination with the PRP, the World Bank funding will support the purchase and
distribution of approximately 3000 tons of improved maize seeds. The project commitment
targets 300,000 farmers. Each farmer is expected to receive 10 kg of maize seeds.

8.       In a complementary, though distinct program, DFID plans to provide the same group of
farmers with at least 25 kg of ammonium nitrate fertilizer. As resources permit, farmers in higher
rainfall zones will receive 50 kg of nitrogen based fertilizer, and possibly 50 kg of an NPK
fertilizer called Compound D. Substantial gains can be derived from the provision of seed alone.
But these gains can be multiplied with the provision of small amounts of fertilizer.

9.     The seed distribution program will target rural farm households based in Zimbabwe's
communal lands who have been unable to produce enough grain during the 2008/09 summer
cropping season to meet their family consumption requirements. These requirements are
estimated at approximately one metric ton of grain per family of 6. Higher priority will be
provided to female headed households, those with high dependency ratios, and those farm
households with family members affected by HIV/AIDS or similar health problems.

10.     The village lists underlying the selection of needy households are already well
established. These lists are modified each year in consultation with local communities. Since the
NGOs providing humanitarian seed do not generally change from year to year, the process of
confirming the targeted households has been considerably simplified. Similarly, the opportunities
for elite capture of NGO assistance have declined as these community relationships have been
strengthened and experience has been gained.

11.     The seed distribution process itself is an open and transparent process. On the day of the
distribution villagers expecting to receive assistance are called together at a central point where
the program is again explained. Village lists may be checked one last time to assure no
particularly needy households are missed. Farmers are informed what types of seed they are
receiving, how this should be grown, if the variety is not universally familiar, and warned of the
fact of the seed treatment. These households will also be told to expect a visit from one or more
review teams later in the season.

                                                27
12.     The communities targeted for assistance will be chosen in coordination with the FAO
Emergency Unit to assure the widest possible range of needy communities are assisted. Here too
the project takes advantage of a well established practice. Each year, the FAO Emergency
Coordination Unit asks all NGOs involved in the distribution of agricultural support, particularly
those involved in the distribution of seeds and fertilizer, to confirm where they will be working
and what they plan to do. The Unit then checks for overlapping coverage at the ward level and
where it finds problems, asks the offending NGOs to shift their location. Since this system has
been running for the past four years, NGOs have become settled in particular areas of the country
and overlap is a limited problem. Since the PRP has already been running for five consecutive
years, there is limited change of coverage of the assisted communities.

13.     Currently, DFID's PRP program is expected to be the largest single effort providing
seeds and fertilizer to smallholder farmers in the country. However, major commitments are also
being organized by the European Commission, and many smaller donors are in the later stages of
planning their commitments. Based on the experience gained over the past few years, the
project's seed distribution will extend across all Natural Regions in the country10.

14.    Sub-component 1.1: Direct Distribution of Maize Seeds (US$5.4 million). The project
will purchase and directly distribute approximately 2,750 tons of improved maize seeds to
smallholder households classified as food insecure. The seeds will be purchased through tender
from domestic and regional seed producers who own certified seed of varieties released for sale
in Zimbabwe, and suitable for production in the country's smallholder production zones. The
domestic seed industry estimates it has produced approximately 20,000 tons of maize seeds in
Zimbabwe this past season. The purchase of this seed will help revitalize this industry. However,
if domestic prices prove uncompetitive, the project can purchase seed of varieties released for
production in Zimbabwe from neighboring countries.

15.     In general, hybrid maize seeds will be targeted to higher rainfall zones (e.g. Natural
Regions I, II and III) and communities with relatively better access to markets. These farmers
generally prefer hybrids, and are most likely to gain access to seed through the market as
wholesale and retail trade improves. Early maturing, open pollinated maize varieties will
generally be targeted to farmers in lower rainfall zones. In both cases, each farmer will receive a
10 kg seed pack, enough to plant about 0.5 hectares at the commonly applied planting rate11. In
line with the common practice underlying this program, farmers will not be charged for this seed.
Even a partial charge would be difficult given the severe lack of cash resources (US$ or South
African Rand) in most rural households.



10
   This includes Natural Regions I, II, III, IV and V. While Natural Regions IV and V are sometimes said to be too
dry to grow maize, these areas encompass three-quarters of all communal or smallholder farming areas, and
approximately one-half of all smallholder farmers. Most of these farmers regularly grow maize. Historical crop
production data indicates these farmers regularly produce a competitive maize harvest (compared to complementary
harvests of sorghum or pearl millet) except when rains drop below about 400 mm per summer season. Most of these
farmers find it easier to store and save sorghum and pearl millet seed than maize seed.
11
   While research recommendations suggest a planting rate of 25 kg per hectare in higher rainfall zones, smallholder
farmers commonly employ a 20 kg per hectare seed rate.

                                                        28
16.     The tendering for the seed and supervision of this effort will be managed by GRM, an
experienced implementing agency linked with the PRP program ­ see implementation
arrangements below (Annex 6). All seed will be packed in 10 kg packs and delivered to
designated district centers for delivery by NGOs. All seed packs will be labeled with the variety
name, maturity period, the specification of whether this is a hybrid or open pollinated variety, the
seed company's name, the lot number and the germination rate. Following past practice, NGOs
delivering the seed will first warn farmers about the seed treatment, and discuss the care to be
taken when planting the seed with recipient communities. In communities with severe food
deficits, seed distribution will be linked with the timing of food aid distribution in order to
minimize the chances the seed will be consumed.12

17.     The distribution of the seed will be managed by up to 20 NGOs who are sub-contracted
by GRM (see Annex 6) to manage designated PRP operations in various parts of the country.
During the past year, GRM entered into multi-year contracts with 15 NGOs to assist with seed
and fertilizer delivery. Given the increasing size of the distribution program, up to five additional
NGOs may be added to this grouping. The selection of regions and villages to be assisted will be
managed by GRM in conjunction with the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit.

18.      As a complement to the ZEAIP, DFID is expected to provide each recipient of seed with
at least 25 kg of ammonium nitrate (AN) or urea fertilizer separately funded under the auspices
of the PRP. This includes fertilizer provided through the CTRSP. Nitrogen is the most limiting
nutrient in most of Zimbabwe's soils, and past experience suggests farmers can achieve
substantial gains by employing targeted micro-dosing with AN or urea. A portion of the recipient
famers will have received advice in recent years on conservation farming. The continuation of
such practices will be encouraged. With both micro-dosing and conservation farming, the risks
of fertilizer runoff are minimized. Therefore, this is not viewed as a significant environmental
risk.

19.    Sub-component 1.2: Voucher Based Seeds Distribution (US$0.7 million). The project
will additionally pay for the distribution of approximately 250 tons of hybrid maize seeds
through rural retail shops in exchange for vouchers. This is a pilot effort to work with the
national seed industry to rebuild its retail distribution systems.

20.     GRM will tender for companies willing to sell seed through retail shops in exchange for
vouchers. The tenders will include provisions for the successful renderer(s) to produce and
distribute vouchers to a sub-set of NGOs contracted under sub-component 1.1 above who will, in
turn, distribute the vouchers to targeted farmers. GRM will facilitate the distribution of the
vouchers to the NGOs. Each voucher will be redeemable for 10 kg of seeds. Again, given rural
cash constraints, no top up payments will be required. The basis for selection of farmers will be
the same as for the above sub-component. The NGO will have to work with the designated seed
company, or associated seed wholesaler, to select acceptable retail shops to stock the seed. The
NGO is expected to also monitor the process of seed voucher redemption.

21.   The company winning the tender must agree to stock all seed necessary for the
redemption of the vouchers in a retail shops within walking distance of farmers receiving the
12
     In past years, efforts to wash and consume improved maize seed have been extremely rare.

                                                          29
vouchers. This may require stocking in 2 to 4 retail shops per designated ward. However, the
ultimate distribution of shops will be worked out by the tender winner and GRM.

22.    The retail shops should be chosen by the seed company, or associated wholesaler, in
consultation with the NGO distributing vouchers in the designated ward. The company is
expected to place the seed in the agreed retail shops within 2 weeks of the distribution of the
vouchers. A time limit will be established for the redemption of vouchers after which these
become void. The seed company will be encouraged to offer additional seed for sale for cash
through the designated outlets. However, voucher based sales will receive priority.

23.     The seed company will collect all vouchers and return these to GRM for payment. The
seed company winning the tender may be given a 20 percent advance payment to cover the costs
of distributing seed through the retail outlets, and will be paid the remainder of this cost for the
vouchers returned. The size of the payment will be linked, under the terms of the tender contract,
with the number of valid vouchers returned.

24.     Approximately 25,000 households are expected to receive vouchers. These are expected
to be distributed across approximately 50 wards, with at least one retail outlet per ward. If there
are an average of three retail outlets per ward, a total of about 150 retail outlets are expected to
participate in the voucher program. The actual number will depend on the density of farmers near
the designated business centers.

25.      It is expected that DFID will fund a complementary program for the distribution of
fertilizer through vouchers at the same set of retail shops. Each farmer receiving a seed voucher
will also receive a fertilizer voucher redeemable for at least 25 kg of ammonium nitrate or urea
fertilizer. This remains a distinct, though complementary program,

Component 2 (Part B): Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.9 million)

26.    The objective of this component is to coordinate project implementation.

27.     Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$0.8 million). The project will be
implemented by GRM under the auspices of the PRP, the largest single program for distributing
seeds and fertilizer to smallholder farmers during the latest 2008/09 summer cropping season.
GRM will work with its procurement agent to tender for all seed distributed under the project. In
complement GRM will sub-contract experienced NGOs to identify smallholder farm households
to be assisted, and distribute seed to these farmers on a timely basis. A sub-set of these NGOs
will also be sub-contracted to help set up and monitor the seed voucher program.

28.     GRM is expected to monitor the operations of both the seed companies and the NGOs to
assure the seed is sent to the districts and distributed to farmers on a timely basis. GRM will also
monitor the operation of the seed voucher program to be sure vouchers are distributed on a
timely basis, seed is stocked in rural retail shops on a timely basis, and vouchers are redeemed on
time.




                                                30
29.    GRM will collect regular reports of field progress from each NGO and submit quarterly
and end of project progress and financial reports to the World Bank. The quarterly reports will be
due not later than 30 days after the end of each reporting quarter. The end of project reports will
be due not later than the closing date of the project.

30.     Project Evaluation (US$0.1 million). The project evaluation will be contracted by GRM
to an independent entity unconnected with any company or NGO receiving funding under this
project. This will collect data relevant to judging the payoffs to this project. It will quantify the
contribution of the improved seeds to the expansion of area planted and improvement of maize
yields. It will also quantify the contribution of the additional production to resolving household
food security constraints.

31.     In order to be most efficient, it is possible that this evaluation will be conducted in
coordination with a larger evaluation of the overall PRP investment in providing agricultural
inputs to smallholder farmers. This effort may also be linked with the assessment of the larger set
of agricultural input supply efforts being facilitated with assistance of the FAO Emergency
Coordination Unit. Even if this coordination is sought, the independence of the entity
implementing the evaluation will be assured. Any terms of reference and selection process would
be reviewed by, and be satisfactory to, IDA.




                                                 31
   Annex 2: Results Framework

   A.     Results Framework13
   Project Development                      Outcome Indicators                       Use of Outcome Information
        Objective
Increased access to improved     Producers receiving improved seeds               To assess the efficiency of the
seeds among 300,000              (number)                                         distribution of seeds
smallholder farmers in
targeted food-insecure
                                 Area cultivated with improved seeds
communal lands of
                                 (hectares)
Zimbabwe.
   Intermediate Results          Results Indicators for Each Component                Use of Results Information
     per Component
Component 1: Provision of Improved Seeds
Increased availability of     Seeds procured and distributed to farmers           To assess the reach and efficiency of
improved seeds                (tons)                                              the direct seed distribution program.

                                Proportion of seeds distributed planted (%)

                                Proportion of seeds distributed to farmers
                                before the end of November (%)
Efficient seed delivery         Farmers receiving vouchers (number)               To assess the reach and efficiency of
mechanism piloted                                                                 the pilot voucher scheme. This would
                                Proportion of vouchers redeemed by farmers in     influence the design of the overall
                                exchange for seeds within 4 weeks of receipt      system.
                                (%)

                                Proportion of vouchers paid out14 by GRM
                                within 3 weeks of receipt (%)

Component 2: Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Improved project reporting  Project reports of satisfactory quality (%)           To monitor and assess overall quality
and management                                                                    of project implementation, and adjust
                                                                                  implementation strategy in view of
                                Procurement completed within one month of         delays and/or bottlenecks
                                plan (%)

                                Project rated satisfactory during each
                                supervisory mission (Yes / No)




   13
      Indicators noted in italics are those reflected in the Grant Agreement.
   14
      Seed provider must collect redeemed vouchers from the retailers and return these to GRM International to receive
   a final payment.

                                                           32
B.    Arrangements for results monitoring

1.     The results monitoring will have two components. GRM will be responsible for monitoring
the implementation of the investment program. This includes i) checking the seed quality, in
coordination with the Seed Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanization
and Irrigation Development, ii) assuring the seed is delivered to district centers on a timely basis,
iii) assuring that the recipient farmers are chosen in a timely and effective manner, iv) assuring
that the seed targeted for direct distribution is delivered to farmers in a timely manner with
appropriate instruction on its use, v) assuring that the voucher program runs effectively and
farmers have no difficulties in redeeming their coupons in a timely manner, vi) assuring that the
vouchers are redeemed on a timely basis, and vii) assuring that project funds are well accounted
for.

2.     In this context, GRM is expected to provide a regular quarterly progress and financial
report to the World Bank. These reports will provide an incremental summary of the progress in
implementation ­ highlighting the achievement of outputs targeted under the project. These
include:
    a. the numbers, characteristics and distribution of beneficiaries,
    b. the quantity of seed purchased and distributed through direct and voucher channels
    c. the timing of seed purchase and distribution through direct and voucher channels
    d. the proportion of seed vouchers redeemed
    e. the quantity of complementary fertilizer purchased and distributed
    f. the timeliness of distribution to farmers in relation to the rainfall season.

3.    These data are expected to be drawn from the monthly progress reports compiled by the
contracted NGOs. However, GRM is also expected to periodically check the accuracy of this
reporting with its own field visits.

4.    While the partnering NGOs will also be asked to provide evidence of the achievement of
intermediate results and the project outcome, the main evaluation effort will be conducted by an
independent agency separately contracted by GRM with funding under component 2. GRM will
prepare terms of reference for this evaluation satisfactory to IDA, and will monitor progress in
implementing the evaluation.

5.     The main project evaluation will consist of two surveys ­ one conducted shortly after the
end of the maize planting season to assess the expansion in crop area to maize and the proportion
of area planted to new varieties, and a second survey near the end of the harvest season designed
to assess the level of the harvest derived from old and new maize seed. Strictly speaking, it
would be preferable to work with a pre-existing baseline summarizing crop area and varieties
planted in 2008/09. Since these data do not exist, this evaluation will have to encompass a set of
recall questions about the 2009 planting season and harvest. In effect, farmers will be asked to
explain current practice and then compare this with what was done and achieved during the
previous season. These surveys will collect data on:
        a. the number of farmers receiving improved seeds through direct and voucher channels
        b. the timing of the receipt of seeds through each channel
        b. proportion of seeds distributed through each channel that was planted
        d. the increase in area planted to maize as a result of the seed distribution
                                                 33
       e. the increase in maize yields as a result of the seed distribution
       f. the increase in household and national maize production levels as a result of the seed
           distribution
       g. the improvement in household food security ­ measured in terms of additional weeks
          of grain obtained as a result of the increased availability of improved seeds.

6.    These results will be disaggregated by gender and the HIV/AIDS status of each household.

7.    A supplementary assessment will evaluate the success of the voucher program per se. This
will summarize the experience and assess its replicability in the future. The assessment will
examine procedures used in the selection of the retail shops, constraints arising in the storage and
sale of seeds in exchange for the vouchers, timeliness and ease of the redemption process,
timeliness and ease of the process of payment for vouchers returned to GRM International, and
evidence of fraud. The evaluation will draw lessons for the revision in the design of the program
that can be used when the voucher system is scaled out to many more communities in the future.

8.     GRM is expected to contract for and monitor this evaluation based on resources available
within the project. It is conceivable, however, that this exercise would be jointly run with a larger
evaluation exercise for the Protracted Relief Program input supply activities. And it is possible
that a broader exercise could include the programs of other donors working under the facilitation
of the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. In the event of a common impact evaluation exercise,
the integrity of the data and sample frame necessary to evaluate the impacts of the ZEAIP will be
maintained and the final TORs will be reviewed by, and be satisfactory to IDA. Similarly, the
selection of consultants/agents to implement the evaluation will be undertaken according to
procedures satisfactory to IDA, and a separate contract for the part of the exercise that will relate
to this project will be signed with the consultant.




                                                 34
Arrangements for Results Monitoring: Summary Table

Outcome Indicators                                   Baseline15 2010              201116 Frequency              Data Collection           Responsibility for
                                                                                         & Reports              Instruments               Data Collection

Project Level                                        0               300000       n/a        End of             Project evaluation        Independent
Producers receiving improved seeds                                                           project                                      Evaluation contract
(number)


Area cultivated with improved seeds                  0               135,000 n/a             End of             Project evaluation        Independent
(hectares)                                                                                   project                                      Evaluation contract

Component 1 Provision of Improved
Seeds
 Seeds procured and distributed to
 farmers (tons)                                      0               3000         n/a        Quarterly          Quarterly progress Supervision mission
                                                                                                                reports
 Proportion of seeds distributed planted
 (%)                                                 0               90%          n/a        End of             Project evaluation        Independent
                                                                                             project                                      Evaluation contract




15
   Baseline is established based on the targeted accomplishment of this project. No national baseline is available to allow assessment of the net contribution of
this project to aggregate national seed adoption levels.
16
   This column is not relevant for most indicators because this is a one season commitment of resource. The impact assessment will be conducted for this one
season only.

                                                                                35
Outcome Indicators                                     Baseline15 2010            201116 Frequency             Data Collection           Responsibility for
                                                                                         & Reports             Instruments               Data Collection

Proportion of seeds distributed to farmers             0              90%         n/a        Quarterly         Quarterly progress Supervision mission
before the end of November (%)                                                                                 reports
Farmers receiving vouchers (number)
                                                       0              25,000      n/a        End of            Project evaluation        Independent
                                                                                             project                                     Evaluation contract
Proportion of vouchers redeemed by
farmers in exchange for seeds within 4                 0              90          n/a        Quarterly         Quarterly progress Supervision mission
weeks of receipt (%)                                                                                           reports
Proportion of vouchers paid out17 by
GRM within 3 weeks of receipt (%)                      0              90          n/a        Quarterly         Quarterly progress Supervision mission
                                                                                                               reports

Component 2: Project Coordination,
Monitoring and Evaluation

Percent of project reports submitted on                0              100%        100%       Quarterly         Quarterly progress Supervision mission
time                                                                                                           reports

Percent of procurement completed within                0              100%        n/a        Quarterly         Quarterly progress Supervision mission
one month of plan                                                                                              reports

Project rated satisfactory during each                 0              yes/no      yes/no Semi-                 Supervision               Supervision mission
supervision mission                                                                      annually              reports




17
     Seed provider must collect redeemed vouchers from the retailers and return these to GRM International to receive a final payment.

                                                                                 36
Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Cost

Summary of Component Cost by Source (US$ million)
Component                                         Amount       Percent of Total
                                                               Project Costs
Component 1 (Part A) ­ Provision of Improved Seeds       6.1   87
1.1 Acquisition and Direct Distribution of maize seeds   5.4   77
1.2 Acquisition and Voucher based seeds distribution     0.7   10
Component 2 (Part B) ­ Project Coordination,             0.9   13
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.1 Project coordination and Monitoring (detailed in     0.8   11a/
Attachment 1 below)
2.2 Project Evaluation                                   0.1   1a/
Total                                                    7.0   100
a/
     11.4% and 1.4% rounded up to 13% in component 2 total




                                               37
Annex 4: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements

Introduction

1.   A financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on November 3,
2005. The objective of the assessment was to determine whether the implementing agency,
GRM International Ltd. (GRM) has the minimum financial management arrangements,
adequate to ensure that:
     a. funds are properly accounted for and used only for the intended purposes, in an
        efficient and economical way;
     b. capability exists for the preparation of accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial
        reports;
     c. internal controls exist which allow early detection of errors or unusual practices as a
        deterrent to fraud and corruption; and

      d. the assets are safeguarded.
The results of the review are documented below.

2.    GRM is a private company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, and
wholly owned by GRM International Group (GRM Group) a holding company also
incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, which itself is wholly owned by
Consolidated Press Holdings Limited, a company registered in Australia. Consolidated Press
Holdings Limited is owned by a prominent businessman, James Douglas Packer, an
Australian national. The financial year of GRM Group and its associated companies ends on
June 30 each year.

3.    GRM Group conducts its business through its four major subsidiary companies, one of
which is GRM, the grant recipient and project implementing entity. The other three major
subsidiaries are: GRM International Pty Limited, a company registered in Australia; GRM
International BV, a company registered in the Netherlands and GRM International AB, a
company registered in Sweden. In addition, each registered GRM company carries out the
projects or contracts through GRM Group's regional and country specific offices.

4.    The ZEAIP project will be implemented by GRM, and will draw on staff in the GRM
office in Harare, Zimbabwe, as well as the Regional Finance Manager in the GRM South
Africa office, in Pretoria.

5.    GRM had a paid up share capital of GBP1,000 as at June 30, 2008, and negative
shareholders' funds (net worth) of GBP357,700. It also recorded an insignificant net profit of
392 GBP in FY 08 and 62,739 GBP in FY 07. GRM depends on GRM Group to enable it to
continue in business, and also to enable it to meet its liabilities as they become due.

6.    To mitigate the risks associated with making a grant to GRM given its financial
position, it was agreed that GRM Group will provide the Bank with a satisfactory guarantee
whereby GRM Group will agree to guarantee absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably the
obligations of the Recipient under the Grant Agreement, including any refunds that might be
payable under the Grant Agreement. As a further mitigating measure, payments for
expenditures under the major seeds contract, estimated at $4.5 million equivalent, will be

                                               38
disbursed by the Bank through the direct payment or "Special Commitment" method. Other
expenditures under the project will be paid for out of the "Designated Account".

7.    The preliminary assessment of the Zimbabwe public financial management (PFM)
system conducted by the Bank in March 2009 concluded that the building blocks of the PFM
system in Zimbabwe have degenerated during the hyperinflationary period leading up to
2009, including the key financial software (SAP ­ designated PFMS) underpinning budget
execution, control and reporting 18. It is generally believed that most of the country's systems
have, over the period, become dysfunctional.

8.    The overall conclusion of the financial management assessment is that the proposed
financial management arrangements for the implementation of the project meet the minimum
requirements of the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 on financial management.


Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures

9.   The following table shows the identified risks that GRM may face in the
implementation of the project and the measures proposed to mitigate the risks.




18
     Zimbabwe Rapid Public Financial Management Assessment Report, 23 March 2009.

                                                    39
            Risk                             Risk Mitigating               Residual    Conditions
                                 Risk    Measures incorporated               Risk           of
                                Rating   into the Project Design            Rating    Negotiations,
                                                                                        Board or
                                                                                      Effectiveness
                                                                                       (Yes or No)
Inherent Risk
Country Level:                    H      · GRM is a private                   M            No
Key building blocks of the                 commercial company
Public Financial Management                registered in the England
System in Zimbabwe have                    and Wales whose
degenerated, including the                 procedures are not
key financial software (SAP ­              dependent on the Country
designated PFMS) affecting                 systems.
budget execution, control and            · GRM will establish a
reporting.                                 USD account at HSBC in
                                           London, U.K. in which
The availability of US $ as                part of the grant proceeds
operating currency                         will be deposited; the
                                           other proceeds will be
                                           disbursed through direct
                                           payment or Special
                                           Commitment to the
                                           suppliers concerned.
Entity Level:                     S      · GRM has been involved              M           Yes
Appropriateness of the                     in the kinds of activities to
organizational structure, the              be financed under this
legal and institutional                    project. They have
framework of GRM                           worked with DFID and
                                           other donors in Zimbabwe
                                           in the distribution of
                                           agricultural inputs.
                                         · GRM will sign a letter of
                                           representation and a legal
                                           opinion will be obtained
                                           in support of the
                                           company's legal status.
                                         · The Zimbabwean
                                           Investment Authority has
                                           authorized GRM to
                                           operate in Zimbabwe
                                           through its liaison office
                                           in Harare.
Project Level                     S      · GRM, though its                    M            No
 The project will be involved              Zimbabwe office, has
with the purchase of seeds                 instituted strong
and distributing the same to               accountability procedures
about 300,000 household                    for the participating
farmers through participating              NGOs and will carry
NGOs which makes it a                      out compliance audits
complex project.                           every 6 months

Many NGOs will be involved               · GRM has the experience
in handling the funds,                     of this kind of activity
identifying the beneficiaries              over many years and has
and distributing the inputs.               in place adequate
                                           inventory and distribution
                                           control mechanisms and
                                           procedures which have
                                           been proven to work
                                           satisfactorily.

                                         · The external audit terms
                                           of reference include

                                                40
                                        checking of inventory and
                                        seed distribution controls
                                        and printing, distribution,
                                        and redemption of
                                        vouchers.


Overall Inherent Risk
                                  S                                    M
Budgeting:                        L                                    L   No
Adequate procedures are in
place and there is no
identified risk associated with
budgeting
Accounting:                       L   · The Project is staffed with    L   No
The risk of GRM's chart of              experienced and qualified
accounts not being updated to           staff. The existing chart of
capture the project activities.         accounts is flexible and
                                        will be adjusted to capture
                                        project activities by
                                        effectiveness.
Internal Control:                 L   · The risk is low because of     L   No
No major risks associated               the existence of well
with internal control.                  documented procedures to
                                        guide the staff.
Funds Flow                            · The disbursement
· GRM staff may not be            L     methods selected for the       L   No
  familiar with the Bank's              project will facilitate
  financial management and              timely availability and
  disbursement policies and             adequate amounts of
  procedures regarding                  funds.
  preparation and submission
  of the quarterly interim            · The Bank FMS will
  unaudited financial reports           conduct training on the
  (IFRs) and requests for               Bank's FM and
  direct payment/Special                Disbursement procedures.
  Commitment; hence, the
  funds may not flow and              · Direct payment/special
  reach their intended                  commitment disbursement
  destination in a timely               procedures will be used
  manner.                               for the large seed
                                        contracts.
· The risk of GRM not being
  able to meet its financial          · GRM Group will
  obligations and possibility           guarantee absolutely,
  of attachment of grant                unconditionally and
  proceeds: GRM's financial             irrevocably the
  position as at 30 June 2008           obligations of GRM under
  is such that it must depend           the Grant Agreement,
  on GRM Group's financial        M     including any refunds that     L   Yes
  support to meet its                   might be payable under
  liabilities as they fall due          the Grant Agreement.
  (e.g. there is a risk that
  third party claims against
  GRM may result in
  attachment of grant
  proceeds).


Financial Reporting:              M   · The project will use the       L   No


                                             41
  Timely and accurate                       existing ACCPac
  financial reports will not be             computerized accounting
  produced                                  system to record the
                                            transactions and produce
                                            the reports
  Auditing:                       M       · GRM's existing auditors           L                No
  The audit may not be carried              have been found
  out in a timely manner by                 acceptable by the Bank
  technically competent and                 and will audit the project
  independent auditors.                     in accordance with audit
  GRM's audit report for the                terms of reference agreed
                                            with the Bank.
  Overall Control Risk            M                                           L
  OVERALL RISK
  RATING                          M                                          M                 No

The overall financial management risk rating for the project is assessed as Moderate. GRM has not
been involved in the implementation of Bank financed projects. The unique characteristics of the
entity working without the involvement of the Government, dispersed beneficiaries and the innovative
aspects of the project, such as the seed voucher system also add to the project complexity.


Strengths

10. The strengths of the system include the existence of a reliable AccPac accounting
package which is capable of accounting for the project activities and reporting on them. The
existence of a comprehensive Administrative Manual provides guidelines in a number of
important areas, and therefore contributes to a strong internal control environment. The
manual describes the accounting procedures and the Code of Conduct. In addition, the
project team that will implement the project has the necessary practical experience derived
from handling similar projects with DFID. The project team has developed a well functioning
monitoring and compliance system with the NGOs they have been working with under DFID.
There are five accounting staff in GRM's Zimbabwe office that will be involved with the
project, who are adequately qualified and have the necessary practical experience which will
benefit the GFRP. The accounting staff have a minimum first degree and full professional
international accounting qualifications.

Implementing Entity

11. The project will be implemented by GRM. GRM, through its Zimbabwe office, will, in
addition, handle the financial management aspects of the project. The GRM Group Regional
Finance Managers based in London and Pretoria will provide oversight functions, and
London will have overall responsibility for financial management of the project. The
accounting staff and the Country Manager at the Zimbabwe office will be responsible for the
project's day to day accounting functions.

12. GRM, through its Zimbabwe office has four years of experience with the sorts of seed
distribution activities planned under this project, and has in place adequate inventory and
distribution control mechanisms and procedures which have been proven to work
satisfactorily in the past. This office has been working with DFID and other donors in
Zimbabwe under the PRP in the distribution of agricultural inputs. In so doing, the office has
established strong accountability procedures for the participating NGOs, and they will carry
out compliance audits every six months. GRM will contract up to 20 NGOs to implement the

                                                42
distribution of seed at the farmer household level. These NGOs will provide quarterly cash
flow forecasts and monthly financial expenditure reports as a basis for contract based
disbursements.

13. GRM's financial management systems were assessed, including their Zimbabwe office.
All the 23 staff 19 working on the project in Zimbabwe are employed by GRM with five of
these in the accounting unit.


Budgeting

14. GRM budget preparation is well defined, and there is regular monitoring on the
implementation of planned activities and the use of funds. The planning and budgeting
process of GRM is described in the administrative guidelines manual. The budget of the
project will be prepared by GRM in consultation with the World Bank.

Accounting

15. GRM prepares financial statements in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. The accounting system is based on the AccPac accounting software. This
accounting package has proved adequate as it is able to produce the necessary reports
required to manage and monitor GRM's financial operations. The package is flexible enough
and will allow for an appropriate chart of accounts to be established for any new project
capable of capturing the project activities and disbursement categories

Internal control and Internal Auditing
Staffing

16. The five accounting staff in GRM's Zimbabwe office, working under the supervision of
the Accountable Grants Manager, were assessed and judged to be adequate in terms of
number and accounting skill for purposes of the financial management of the project.

Internal Controls

17. GRM applies the accounting procedures and other provisions described in the
Administrative Guidelines Manual that guide all GRM's financial transactions. There is an
Administrative Manual that describes the accounting policies and procedures to be applied
when processing financial transactions. The manual includes a chapter on the Code of
Conduct for all the employees of GRM giving guidelines on the standards of conduct,
company fraud policy, conflict of interest and the associated obligations. The Regional
Finance Manager based in Pretoria visits the Zimbabwe office at least once a quarter to
review the accuracy of financial transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls,
compliance with GRM operational procedures, stock and inventory issues, and identify
weaknesses that require management attention. These problems are discussed with local
management staff with suggestions for improvement.

Internal Audit

18.      GRM's Zimbabwe office does not have an in-house internal audit function. All the

19
     There are 3 GRM International permanent staff and 20 project staff employed in the Zimbabwe office.

                                                       43
internal audit related functions are provided as part of the management internal control
described in paragraph 11 above. There are no specific internal audit arrangements planned
for the project.

19. As part of management controls, the GRM's Zimbabwe office will carry out monthly
compliance supervision missions of the NGOs. Reports of the missions, which will include
assessment of the timeliness of accounting and contract performance will form part of the
reports to be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The Bank supervision missions and
the external auditors will also review these reports.

20. On a global basis, the GRM Group Regional Finance Manager and Financial Controller
(a post based in GRM International Pty Limited's Brisbane office) undertake reviews of
systems and procedures of all GRM including the Zimbabwe office.

Funds Flow and Disbursement Arrangements

Funds Flow

21. Funds will flow from the Trust Fund account at the World Bank either directly to
suppliers (in the case of large seed contracts) through direct payments or Special
Commitments, or to the US Dollar denominated Designated Account to be opened at HSBC
bank in London, and managed by GRM. Funds in the Designated Account will be used to
finance only eligible expenditures.

Banking Arrangements

22. GRM will maintain the Designated Account at HSBC, London for the purposes of
implementing the project.

23. Disbursements from the Bank's Grant account will be deposited in the Designated
Account to finance eligible expenditures. The Designated Account will be reconciled on a
monthly basis and the reconciliation statements will be checked and approved by senior staff
of GRM.

Disbursement Arrangements

24. Disbursement of funds to the Designated Account will be based on the quarterly
interim unaudited financial reports (IFRs). These reports will include data on the sources and
uses of funds by expenditure category and component/activity. Designated Account activity
statement, statements of contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, and a statement
covering all other expenditures (i.e. contracts not subject to prior review) will be required for
disbursement purposes. The formats and contents of these reports have been agreed at
negotiations.


25. An advance will be made to the Designated Account upon the effectiveness of the grant
agreement, and request by GRM. The advance will be calculated to cover project forecast
expenditures (other than the large seed contracts) for 6 months as indicated in the initial six-
month cash flow forecast. After every subsequent quarter, GRM will submit IFRs which will
include a cash flow forecast for the following 6 month period. The cash request at the
reporting date will be the cash forecast less the balance in the Designated Account at the end

                                               44
of the reporting quarter.

26. Advances by GRM to contracted NGOs will be based on a quarterly cash flow forecast.
Each NGO will be responsible to submit an initial request for the first quarter and provide a
monthly tracking of this expenditure as the quarter progresses. At the beginning of the next
quarter a summary expenditure report will be linked with a new cash flow forecast and funds
request. These data will be summarized and included in GRM's quarterly financial report to
the Bank.

27. In addition to the advance, GRM will be availed other disbursement mechanisms such
as the reimbursement, direct payment, and special commitment disbursement methods. The
last two methods will be available options on contracts above a pre-determined threshold
(minimum application size), usually determined as 20 percent of the advance to the
Designated Account. These disbursement methods require that the withdrawal applications
for such payments are accompanied by relevant supporting documents such as copies of the
contract, contractors' invoices and appropriate certifications. It is agreed that payments for
expenditures under the major seed contract for direct seed distribution to farmers, estimated
at $4.5 million equivalent, would be disbursed through the direct payment or Special
Commitment method, and not from advances to the Designated Account. GRM will be
reimbursed eligible expenditures incurred and paid since July 1, 2009 before the grant
agreement is signed.

Advances to NGOs.

28. Following a satisfactory financial management assessment of a participating NGO by
GRM, an advance will be made to the qualified NGO based on an approved activity plan and
a direct bank transfer of funds will made by GRM into the overseas bank account of each
NGO opened exclusively for the World Bank assisted project implementation. The amounts
transferred to the NGO bank accounts will be treated as expenditure for the purposes of
replenishment of the Designated Account. The NGOs will, however, account for advances
on a monthly basis to GRM as per paragraph 17 above, and the latter to the World Bank on a
quarterly basis.

29. The Bank will issue a Disbursement Letter to GRM, which will set out and summarize
the disbursement arrangements and procedures under the project. The letter will include the
World Bank Disbursement Guidelines, Form for Authorized Signatures for withdrawals from
the grant, and the agreed IFRs as attachments.

Operating Costs.

30. Incremental expenditures incurred by the Recipient in the implementation of the
Project, consisting of office space rental, office supplies, communication and insurance,
office administration, reasonable bank charges related to the operation of the Designated
Account for the Project, utilities, travel, vehicle maintenance, vehicle rental, per diem
allowances when on travel, salaries (including benefits) and recruitment and termination
costs of contracted employees, and reasonable management fee acceptable to the Bank are
eligible under the project. These lines of expenditure will be part of the chart of accounts so
that they are properly monitored. The payments will be on actual basis and a suitable and
reasonable proportion for those expenditures where actual cannot be determined easily and
efficiently.


                                              45
31. Funds Flow Chart



                                Food Price Crisis Trust Fund
                                     US $ 7.0 million
                                 T
                                 R
                                 F


      Designated Account in US $ in a
            Commercial Bank


                                                                         Component 1.1- Direct
                                                                         Distribution of Maize ,
                            SEED                Supplier                 (Major Seed
                                                                         Contracts)(US$4.5)




  ·Component 1.1 Direct Maize
  Distribution (Other) ­
  US$O.9m                                       Component 1.2 ­ Voucher Based Seed
  ·Component 2 ­ Project                             Distribution (US$0.7m)
  Management & Evaluation
  (US$0.9m)




Allocation of Grant Proceeds
 Category                                     Amount of the Grant                        Percentage to be Financed
                                          Allocated (expressed in US$)                      (Inclusive of taxes)
 Component 1                                           6.1                                          100
 (1) Seeds and services for
 Part A of the Project                                     6.1                                     100
 Component 2                                               0.9                                     100
 (1) Operating costs and
 services for Part B of the
 Project                                                   0.9                                     100
 Total                                                     7.0                                     100


Seed Distribution and the Seed Voucher Internal Controls and Financial Reporting

32. GRM will enter into contractual arrangements with the seed suppliers and the NGOs
that will be engaged to distribute the maize seeds. All the control aspects will be covered in
the contract terms and conditions. To assure no loss of seed from the seed suppliers, payment
will only be made after delivery and complete fulfillment of contractual conditions. To assure
timely delivery, the contracts with suppliers have specific delivery dates and have liquidated
damages clauses for any delays. The conditions that are highlighted above will be in effect
for both direct seed distribution and for the voucher system. Compliance reviews will be
carried out on NGOs by GRM through its Accountable Grants Management Unit in the

                                                            46
Zimbabwe office.

External Auditing

33. GRM is audited annually by international auditors. During the last three years (ending
30 June, 2006, 2007 and 2008) GRM has been audited by an international firm of accountants
who has expressed unqualified audit opinions. The financial statements have been prepared
using the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices, and are audited according to
International Standards on Auditing. GRM's audit reports for FY07 and FY08 were signed
only in July 2008 and January 2009 respectively, much later than required under the Bank's
audit policy in OP/BP 10.02. Nevertheless, GRM has confirmed its agreement to ensuring
that the audits are received within six months after the end of each of its FYs. The Bank will
follow up closely with GRM on this.

34. ZEAIP's annual financial statements will be audited by GRM's external auditors under
the agreed terms of reference, The Terms of Reference for the audit include examination of
inventory, vouchers and seed distribution control procedures. The audit TORs have been
agreed with the World Bank at the negotiation of the grant agreement. Audit costs will be
financed by the Trust Fund Grant. The audited financial statements and audit report, together
with the auditor's management letter and management response thereto, will be submitted to
the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the financial year, that is, December 31 each
year.

35. The following table identifies the audit report and special opinions that are required to
be submitted to the Bank by GRM, and the due date for submission.

                  Audit Report                                       Due Date
 The project audited financial statements-         Not later than December 31 each year
 July to June each year and special opinion
 on: (i)The quality of the IFRs used for
 withdrawal from the Grant Account; (ii) Use
 of funds by NGOs, and (iii) delivery of
 agreed services seeds/seed vouchers control
 and distribution.


36.   The project financial statements include:
           (i) a statement of funds received, showing funds from the World Bank, and of
                    expenditures incurred;
           (ii) a summary of the activity in the Designated Account;
           (iii) a summary of the principal accounting policies that have been adopted; and
           (iv) other explanatory notes.




                                              47
37.   Agreed Action

                                                            Responsible         Completion
 #     Action                                               Person              Date
       Develop a chart of accounts in the existing AccPac   GRM International   By effectiveness
       accounting package to track expenditures for the     Limited- Regional
       Project.                                             Finance Manager

Governance and Accountability

38. GRM has a code of conduct which all staff have to adhere to. The same code is applied
to the compliance monitoring of NGO operations.

Supervision Plan

39. Based on the nature of the project, the financial management onsite supervision will be
carried out by the Financial Management Specialist (FMS) at least every six months
throughout the life of the project. The FMS will, in addition, carry out reviews of the
quarterly interim unaudited financial reports, the audit reports and management letters from
the external auditors, and follow-up on material accountability issues by engaging with the
TTL, Client, and/or Auditors.

Conclusion

40. The financial management systems of GRM, together with the guarantee of GRM
Group, are assessed as satisfactory and meet the minimum World Bank requirements of
OP/BP 10.02.




                                                   48
Annex 5: Procurement Arrangements

I.   Procurement Capacity Assessment

1.    The assessment has been carried out as part of project preparation to assess the
procurement capacity of GRM, the implementing agency, who, based on existing
arrangements under PRPII would contract; (i) its existing procurement agent to assist with
procurement of the maize seed components of the project, and (ii) NGOs to assist with
implementation at the local level. The assessment determined the adequacy of the capacity
and systems of GRM to undertake this responsibility.

2.   In the past, GRM provided services to IFAD in the Smallholder Dry Areas Agricultural
Resource Management Project (SDARMP), and the Smallholder Irrigation Support Project
(SISP) following the withdrawal of DANIDA, and worked in close cooperation with the
South Eastern Areas Dryland Agricultural Project (SEDAP).

3.     The World Bank through the FPCR Core MDTF proposes to support the Zimbabwe
Emergency Agricultural Input Project (ZEAIP) in the amount of US$7.0 million to be
financed from the Food Price Crisis Response Core Multi-Donor Trust Fund (FPCR Core
MDTF). The ZEAIP grant will finance short term activities to reduce Zimbabwe's
dependence on food aid and strengthen the capacity of poorer farm households to meet their
grain consumption requirements. The project will have two components: (i) the provision of
improved maize seeds necessary to expand planted area and improve crop yields and (ii)
project coordination, monitoring and evaluation. The proposed project is expected to be
completed in 18 months. Given the ongoing involvement of GRM in implementing similar
activities funded by DFID and several other donors under the PRP framework, GRM was
selected as grantee for ZEAIP. GRM was selected because of the emergency nature of the
project (being implemented under provisions of OP/BP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies), the comparative advantage that GRM represents in term of its unique
experience in the Zimbabwean context in implementing this kind of operation, and in the
interest of improved coordination and collaboration with the activities being funded by
multiple donors within the framework of the PRP. These other PRP activities highly
complement the seed delivery package the ZEAIP proposes to finance. The grant would also
finance GRM's direct costs incurred (plus a management fee) in carrying out the Project.

Capacity of GRM as implementing Agency for the Project

4.    The assessment has been carried out as part of project preparation to evaluate the
procurement capacity of GRM, the implementing agency, who would contract (i) its existing
procurement agent to assist with procurement of the maize seed component of the project,
and (ii) non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to assist with implementation at the local
level. The assessment determined the adequacy of the capacity and systems of GRM to
undertake this responsibility.

5.    For procurement purposes, GRM, together with the procurement assistance services
provided by its procurement agent has adequate capacity to carry out procurement and this
has been satisfactorily demonstrated under both the PRP I and PRP II. This arrangement will
be continued under the ZEAIP.
                                            49
6.   GRM internal controls are based on accounting procedures and regulations described in
the Administrative Guidelines Manual that guide all GRM operations. There is an
Administrative Manual that describes the accounting policies and procedures to be applied
when processing financial transactions. The manual includes a chapter on the Code of
Conduct for all the employees of GRM giving guidelines on the standards of conduct,
company fraud policy, conflict of interest and the associated obligations.

Items to be financed under the Project

7.     Operating costs to be financed under the project are detailed in Annex 4. Other
activities, to be procured under the project, are as follows:
         Goods: Seed maize, vouchers and related logistical support for warehousing (storage)
        and distribution to beneficiaries and retail outlets
         Works: None expected
         Consultant Services: (i) single source selection of the procurement agent to assist
         with procurement of maize seed and its distribution to district storage facilities based
         on existing similar arrangements under PRPII; (ii) single source selection of NGOs
         for distribution of maize seed or vouchers to farmers and for providing them advisory
         and monitoring services based on similar existing arrangements under PRPII; (iii)
         contracting of consultants to undertake an impact assessment of the project

Staffing and institutional arrangements

8.    GRM does not have in house capacity for implementing procurement of larger
contracts such as those for seed purchases, though it does have proven capacity for
contracting the NGOs for services at the level envisaged under the project. For this reason,
both under the PRP I and II, GRM has contracted the services of an experienced procurement
agent to assist with the procurement requirements of larger tenders. This arrangement will
continue under the ZEAIP, for which the existing agent has demonstrated sufficient capacity.

9.    Specific responsibilities for the GRM to implement the project:
       · Development of the implementation plan, budget and procurement plan
       · Selection and supervision of NGOs based on institutional assessment and capacity
           to implement specific aspects of the project based on procedures which were
           developed in the PRP I and refined in the PRP II and which have been reviewed
           and found to be acceptable by the Bank. Brief details on selection process for the
           NGOs are described below.
       · Procurement of maize seed including distribution to the districts either via NGOs
           or retail shops, utilizing the services of the procurement agent.
       · Supervision of distribution of the maize seed to beneficiary farmers

Procurement Risk assessment

10. From the above, the risk assessment based on the capacity and systems is moderate
with respect to the agency's capacity to carry out procurement under the project with the
contracting in of the procurement agent.

11. To enhance the GRM's institutional capacity to carry out procurement under the
project, the risks and risk mitigation actions in the Table below are proposed.

                                               50
Issue     Description of          Proposed remedial action                                      Action by who and
No        Issue                                                                                 by when

1         Use of simplified Bid   GRM needs to develop and use simplified standard bidding      WB has provided sample
          document for LIB        documents for use in procurement under LIB and as needed      simplified LIB for procurement
          and NCB                 under NCB which capture or include basic principles of good   of commodities. GRM to
                                  international procurement practices.                          prepare satisfactory bid
                                                                                                documents in timely fashion
2         Establishment of        Training of GRM in procurement records management, The        GRM Finance and
          procurement filing      Bank should provide such training as appropriate using ACS    Administration Department to
          and record              staff.                                                        receive training during project
          management system                                                                     start-up to support
                                                                                                establishment of Procurement
                                                                                                Record Management system



Proposed Bank Procurement Supervision Plan for the Project

12. Based on the assessed institutional and staff capacity for this project, it is proposed that
the project be supervised for procurement purposes at least three times in the eighteen months
implementation period of the project.

Procurement Plan

13. A procurement plan for goods and services for the 18 months of the project
implementation has been prepared. The plan includes relevant information on all goods and
consulting services that will be procured under the project. The procurement plan includes
the prior review thresholds and the timing of each of the milestones in the procurement
process. The procurement plan will be updated at least once in the life of the project and will
be reviewed by the Bank during implementation support missions.

General

14. Project information: The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food
Crisis Response Program and will be financed by the Food Crisis Price Response Core Multi-
Donor Trust Fund. The proposed operation will finance short term activities to reduce
Zimbabwe's dependence on food aid and strengthen the capacity of poorer farm households
to produce enough grain to meet their consumption requirements. The project will have two
components: (i) the provision of improved maize seed necessary to expand planted area and
improve crop yields and (ii) project coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

15.     Bank's approval Date of the procurement Plan: July 8, 2009

16.     Date of General Procurement Notice: N/A Project is an emergency project under BP
8.0

17.     Period covered by this procurement plan: 18 months, July 2009 to December 2010

18. Applicable Procurement and Consultants Guidelines: Procurement will be carried
out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006,
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' published
by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in
the Grant Agreement.

                                                              51
II.     Goods and Works and Non-Consulting Services

19. Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by IDA as
stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:
      Expenditure                   Contract Value                                                             Contracts Subject to
       Category                      (Threshold)                             Procurement Method                   Prior Review
                                        USD
   Goods                                                 N/A                                      LIB                              All
                                          >=30,000 < 750,000                                     NCB                      1st Contract
                                                     <30,000                                 Shopping                           None
                                                    All value       Direct Contracting (Single Source)                   All Contracts
   Consultants
                                                     >=100,000                               QCBS                        All contracts
   (a) Firms                                          <100,000          CQS, LCS, QBS, FBS, Service                      First contract
                                                     <All values                Delivery Contractors                     All contracts
                                                                                                SSS

   (b) Individual                                     >=50,000                                       IC                   All contracts

                                                      All values                                  SSS                     All contracts


20. Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: Procurement of commodities as
described in para 2.68 of the Procurement Guidelines based on market practices using LIB.
The process should ensure adequate application of principles of economy, transparency,
competition and appropriate pre-shipment inspection is carried out. A single currency in
which the commodity is usually priced may be used for bidding and payment.

21. Procurement Packages Subject to Bank Prior Review with Methods and Time
Prequalification. In accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the
Guidelines, prequalification may be carried out in respect of procurement of maize seed.

22. Proposed Procedures for CDD Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the
Guidelines: N/A

23. Reference to (if any) Project Operational/Procurement Manual: Finance manual
for GRM and Procurement Guidelines for the procurement agent.

24.     Schedule

Goods
               Description*                 Package             Lot       Estimated     Procure           Prior or   Expected      Date of
                                            Number            Number      Amount in     ment               Post        Bid-        Delivery
                                                                            US $        Method            Review     Opening
                                                                                                                       Date
1. Procurement of 2,750 MT of hybrid      GRM /C/01/09              1      4,750,000           LIB           Prior     August             August
and open pollinated variety maize seeds                                                                                  2009              2009
for direct distribution to the district
level
2. Procurement of 250 MT of hybrid         GRM/C/02/09              2        750,000         NCB             Prior     August      September
seeds for distribution in exchange for                                                                                  2009            2009
vouchers at local retail shops (this
includes the cost of the seed, the
vouchers and the exchange through
local retail shops)




                                                                   52
III. Selection of Consultants

25. Prior Review: Consultancy services estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or above
per contract for firms will be subject to prior review by the Bank as stated in Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants. Consultant Services estimated to
cost US$50,000 equivalent or above for individual consultants will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. All single-source selection of consultants will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.

26. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: The following arrangements should be
noted:

      (a) The procurement agent will be selected under single source procedures. It was
          determined that, under the PRP, GRM required the services of this agent for
          procurement of larger goods contracts and that this arrangement was found to be
          adequate and appropriate following a review by the World Bank, and would be
          continued under this project. This decision is based on historical experience and the
          demonstrated procurement capacity of the procurement agent, on the fact that the
          project would represent a continuation of the ongoing arrangements under the PRP
          initiative, and that it was being undertaken in response to emergency circumstances
          where time is of the essence.
      (b) The NGOs would be selected under single source procedures for the following
          reasons. The method and procedures that GRM used for the selection of NGOs for
          activities financed by DFID under the PRP I and PRP II were reviewed and found to
          be satisfactory by the World Bank. Specifically, under the PRP, pre-proposals were
          solicited by GRM from any NGO interested in providing the requisite services. GRM
          conducted a review of the pre-proposals and identified a list of NGOs meeting the
          preliminary qualification criteria. These NGOs were requested to submit more
          detailed proposals and GRM evaluated them and selected 20 as qualified to undertake
          the tasks required under the PRP. These tasks are similar to those that would be
          performed under the project. The NGOs to be contracted, individually, under the
          GEAIP will be drawn from amongst the same 20.
      (c) Although not currently planned under this project, Service Delivery Contracts, Fee
          Based Selection (FBS) and Quality Based Selection (QBS) may also be used for the
          procurement of goods and consultants.

27.       Consultant Assignments
Ref No.                       Description of the assignment                         Cost Estimate   Selection    Prior/Post     Expected      Expected
                                                                                    in US Dollars   Method        Review        Proposal     Completion
                                                                                                                               Submission       Date
                                                                                                                                  date
1          Single-source procurement of Crown Agents to assist with tendering             260,000          SSS         Prior     July 2009   July 2009
           for seed maize and voucher purchase and distribution
2          Single-source procurement of NGOs for seed and voucher distribution            900,000          SSS         Prior   August 2009   September
           to farmers and assistance to, and monitoring of, farmers and oversight                                                            2009
           of voucher program ($900,000 estimate comprises multiple - - up to 20
           - - individual NGO contracts)
3           Consultancy to undertake the project impact assessment                        100,000        QCBS          Prior    September    June 2010
                                                                                                                                     2010




                                                                           53
Annex 6: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements

1.     The project will be implemented by GRM International Ltd (GRM), a company with
extensive experience managing agricultural relief operations in Zimbabwe, under a grant
from the World Bank. GRM will be responsible for i) the procurement of seed targeted for
direct distribution to targeted farmers, ii) the selection, contracting and management of NGOs
for the identification of recipient households and the direct distribution of seed to these
households, iii) the selection, contracting and management of seed companies or associated
wholesale agencies managing the distribution of seed in exchange for vouchers at designated
rural retail outlets, and iv) the overall monitoring of project implementation.

2.    In procuring seed targeted for direct distribution to farmers GRM will be responsible
for quality assurance and oversight of supply chain management from supplier through to
delivery to the beneficiary smallholder farmers. Approximately 2,750 MT of maize seeds will
be procured under Limited International Bidding. Tender documents will require delivery of
seed to NGO depots at Provincial or District level. NGOs will then be responsible for
delivery of seed to smallholder farmers, as described below. GRM will be responsible for
managing and monitoring this supply chain through to the beneficiaries.

3.    Under existing regulations, seed certification, inspection, and quality testing, falls
under the mandate of the Seed Services Branch (SSB) of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Mechanisation and Irrigation Development (MOAMID). Varietal purity and possible genetic
contamination have been of concern in the past, and apart from the normal germination and
physical purity tests, grow out tests to confirm genetic purity may be undertaken on a limited
number of samples. SSB has limited resources however, and will require some support under
the project to carry out these tests. The project will pay agreed rates for each type of test
from the operational budget managed by GRM.

4.    NGOs will be sub-contracted by GRM to select or confirm beneficiaries using agreed
targeting criteria, receive seed into the agreed Provincial or District depots, and distribute the
seed to selected beneficiaries. GRM has already contracted more than 20 NGOs under PRP
using procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. A subset of these NGOs, those
involved in agricultural input delivery under the PRP, will also be procured under this project
using sole source selection.

5.     Approximately 250 MT of hybrid maize seeds will be delivered to selected
beneficiaries through the retail chain through a voucher system. Combined supply and
distribution services will be procured under a National Competitive Bidding process, as it is
not practical to expect suppliers without a significant presence in Zimbabwe to be capable of
both supplying and delivering through the retail chain down to communal level. Any such
supplier must already have a wholesale and or retail trading license suitable for trading seed
in the country. The successful bidder(s) will arrange for distribution of their seed to small
retailers and agri-dealers at selected business centres easily accessible to farmers receiving
the vouchers in the communal lands. Maize seed procured under this component may
undergo the same level of testing described above.

6.    Vouchers will be printed by the supplier and will include sufficient security features to
minimise the risk of counterfeiting. The redemption value of the voucher will include the cost
of the 10 kg seed pack itself, and all costs incurred in delivering to the beneficiary, including
transport, warehousing and margins. Farmers will not pay any top up.
                                               54
7.     Vouchers will be delivered to GRM who will distribute these to NGOs, whose
geographical coverage includes the selected rural business centres. These NGOs will be
tasked with beneficiary selection and issuing of vouchers to these beneficiaries. Additional
security features will be added by both GRM and the NGO, which will enable confirmation
that the vouchers presented by the supplier for final redemption are the same vouchers
distributed to beneficiaries, thus further minimising the risks of counterfeiting.

8.     Vouchers will be redeemed by beneficiaries in exchange for a seed pack through the
small rural retailers. Vouchers will then pass back up the chain for final redemption by the
supplier through GRM. GRM and the relevant NGO will be responsible for validation of the
vouchers prior to payment to the supplier. The supplier will carry the risks associated with
retail distribution, will maintain ownership of the seed until final delivery to beneficiaries,
and will not be paid until final presentation of vouchers. The risks involved in the current
economic climate are however significantly greater than under more normal circumstances,
and to encourage participation in the tender process, 20 percent of the value of the contract
may be paid upon signature of contract and confirmation of seed in the supplier's central
warehouse.

Implementation Schedule

9.    The targeted implementation schedule is laid out in Table A.6.1. The largest share of
implementation activity is to be carried out between the start of the project and the end of the
planting period in January 2010. Seed must be purchased as early as possible and the
arrangements for the voucher redemption program need to be organized well before the
beginning of the planting season. It is expected that the last of the vouchers will be returned
to GRM for payment by the end of January or early February 2010. Seed grow outs, a
component of project supervision, may only be completed in March. Monitoring of the gains
achieved with the seed will continue through to the crop harvest. The final evaluation of the
project, to be funded separately, will be conducted in several phases including a post-planting
survey and post-harvest survey. The results of this evaluation should be available before the
end of 2010.

Monitoring and Evaluation

10. GRM will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the progress, efficiency and
effectiveness of the whole programme, including regular hands-on compliance monitoring of
contracted NGOs and retail distributors, using methodologies and processes developed under
PRP I and PRP II. Contracted organisations will be required to provide monthly progress and
financial reports to GRM, which will provide early warning of impending problems, and
allow corrective measures to be implemented. GRM will provide quarterly progress and
financial reports to the World Bank.

11. GRM will also retain responsibility for procuring the services of an independent agent
to conduct a project evaluation prior to project completion.




                                              55
Table A.6.1 Implementation Timeline for the ZEAIP (2009-10)
Project Component and activities        Jul   Aug Sep Oct     Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep
Component         1    Provision     of
Improved Seeds
1.1 Direct distribution of maize
seeds
  Seed purchase
  Seed distribution
1.2     Voucher        based      seeds
distribution
  Select retail shops and supplier
  Distribute vouchers and seed
  Voucher redemption
Component 2 Project Coordination,
Monitoring and Evaluation




                                                                    56
Donor Harmonisation

12. The project pursued two strategies for assuring its efforts are harmonized with the efforts
of other donors providing humanitarian support in the country. First, the ZEAIP will be
implemented in parallel with the DFID funded Protracted Relief Program. The PRP is supervised
by a Programme Steering Committee comprising representatives of PRP II Partners, which is
chaired by DFID. GRM provides secretarial services to this Committee. The World Bank will be
a member of this Committee.

13. In addition, the project design and implementation are being discussed with the FAO
Emergency Coordination Unit which is providing coordinating services to all donors and NGOs
involved in the provision of humanitarian aid to the agricultural sector. Importantly, this helps
minimize overlap in the distribution of agricultural inputs. The Emergency Coordination Unit
also helps assure all parties involved in the provision of emergency assistance are aware of one
another's activities and promotes the adoption of best practice. This unit also facilitates
engagement with the Government of Zimbabwe under the context of the Short Term Economic
Recovery Programme (STERP). Government officers are invited to attend regular agricultural
assistance coordination meetings. To date, the Government has endorsed this process.


Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection

14.   The following alternatives were considered during the course of project design.

       a. Implementation Agency. The Government of Zimbabwe has historically been
       involved in the distribution of agricultural inputs to small-scale farmers. This includes
       distribution programs during the 2008/09 cropping season. However, many questions
       have been raised about the effectiveness of the targeting of this assistance and the
       soundness of the government's existing financial management capacity. The Government
       has confirmed its support for the arrangements to have GRM be the grantee and
       implementing entity under this Project. A limited amount of financing (approximately
       US$15,000) will be provided for direct expenses of the Seed Services Department to
       allow this unit to pursue its mandated mission of confirming the acceptability of the seed
       being sold in the country. This funding will be managed and supervised by GRM.

       b. Provision of Alternative Agricultural Inputs. During the project design consideration
       was made to supporting a smaller number of farmers with both seed and fertilizer. The
       decision to run this program in parallel with the DFID funded Protracted Relief Program
       adds simplicity and efficiency of the design with a complementary investment in fertilizer
       supply. Consideration was also given to the provision of alternative types of seed,
       including the provision of sorghum and pearl millet seeds in more drought prone regions
       of the country. The decision to concentrate on the provision of maize seed reflects the
       fact that farmers almost universally choose to grow maize, even in relatively drier areas
       of the country, due to perceptions of average productivity gains and taste preferences.



                                           57
       Many of these farmers in drier areas also find it easier to save sorghum and pearl millet
       seeds for replanting as compared with maize seed.

       c. Provision of food aid instead of inputs. There are many needs in Zimbabwe that
       require a distribution of efforts across the donor community. These include the
       continuing need for financing for food aid, as well as clean drinking water for cholera
       control, medicines, electricity and the like. Following extensive discussion with a range
       of representatives in government, the donor community and the private sector, it was
       decided to support the development of a more sustainable response to the country's
       desperate need for food grains. In line with the intentions of the Food Price Crisis
       Response Program, this project aims to reduce Zimbabwe's vulnerability to food price
       volatility in the future through enhancing national production capabilities as well as the
       production capabilities of the rural households least able to afford a dependence on
       expensive food imports. In the process, the project also shifts the focus of assistance from
       targeting the resolution of immediate needs to targeting the strengthening of a technology
       and market institution base allowing Zimbabweans to better meet their own requirements
       in the future.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

15. The Project is rated as a Category C operation. The environmental and social impacts of
the project are expected to be minimal. Maize seed has been treated in Zimbabwe for several
decades and farmers are well aware of the fact of this treatment. The choice of insecticide to be
used, the application procedures and pesticide management procedures are governed under the
Zimbabwe Pesticide Act of 2006.

16. The seed treatment commonly used for maize in Zimbabwe encompasses pesticides to
counteract fungi and some soil insect pests. The technical active ingredients that are slightly
hazardous (Pirimiphos-methyl is WHO class III) or unlikely to present acute hazard (Captan-
based fungicides are WHO class U) according to the WHO recommended classification of
pesticides by hazard. This treatment is undertaken by the seed companies in their facilities
designed for such purposes and includes the use of adequate protective equipment. The treatment
is completed in these facilities prior to distribution to the farmers and/or retail outlets.

17. The seed companies treating this seed are well established local, regional and international
entities accredited under Zimbabwean regulations to supply seed, and required to treat seed
safely and effectively. At least four of the prospective suppliers have entities with international
reputations and with branch offices in several neighboring countries including South Africa.
They have been leaders in research, particularly in the development of seed hybrids suitable for
local conditions. No genetically modified seeds are distributed in Zimbabwe.

18. Farmers are well aware that maize seed is treated with pesticide in Zimbabwe given that
this has been a standard practice for many years. However, to reinforce this awareness, seed
packets will be distributed with appropriate warnings regarding the toxic nature of the treatment
chemicals. Seed distribution will also be linked in timing with food aid distribution in areas of
the country where grain shortages are most severe.



                                            58
19. While the project does not finance the provision of fertilizer, it is likely that many of the
beneficiaries will receive support for micro-dosing. This will involve the application of very
small quantities (10 to 20 kg N/ha) of nitrogen based fertilizer, which is about 20 to 25% of the
recommended rate. The application is so small, and the distribution of the farmers so widely
spread, that the risks of runoff are negligible.

20. The implementing agencies now have several years of experience with the targeting
households and communities in need. Farmers and farm communities are well aware of this
process and participate in the identification of needy households. The Protracted Relief Program
guidelines will be employed to facilitate the delivery of assistance to the most needy households,
and to female headed and HIV/Aids affected households in particular.

21. The distribution of seed will be restricted to farm households resident in Zimbabwe's
Communal Lands. Therefore, no seeds will be distributed to resettlement farmers.




                                            59
Annex 7: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members

                     Zimbabwe: Emergency Agricultural Input Project

Project Processing Schedule
                          Planned                    Revised              Actual
GFRP Review/Decision June 18, 2009                                        June 18, 2009
ISDS to PIC               June 18, 2009                                   July 8, 2009
Appraisal                 June 22-23, 2009                                July 1, 2009
Negotiations              June 22-23, 2009           July 8-10, 2009      July 8-15, 2009
RVP Approval              June 26, 2009              July 22, 2009        July 30, 2009
Planned Effectiveness     July 15, 2009              July 31, 2009
Mid-Term Review           March 15, 2010
Completion Date           December 31 2010
Closing Date              June 30 1011



Bank Staff and Consultants Who Worked on the Project Included:
Name                            Title                             Unit
Jeffrey Racki                   Consultant                        SASDU
David Rohrbach                  Senior Agricultural Economist     AFTAR
Watson Caesar Chidawanyika      Agricultural Economist            AFTAR
Fenwick Chitalu                 Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Wedex Ilunga                    Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Suzanne Morris                  Senior Finance Officer            LOAFC
Nicolette DeWitt                Lead Counsel                      LEGAF
Anthony Molle                   Counsel                           LEGAF
Victoria Gyllerup               Operations Officer                AFTRL
Kristine Schwebach              Social Safeguards                 AFTCS
Lungiswa Thandiwe Gxaba         Environmental Safeguards          AFTEN




                                             60
Annex 8:
                                   Zimbabwe at a glance                                                                                        9/24/08

                                                                         Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    Saharan       Low-
                                                                                                Development diamond*
                                                        Zimbabwe        Africa    income
2007
Population, mid-year (millions)                               13.4         800      1,296
                                                                                                                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               ..        952        578
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                 ..        762        749
Average annual growth, 2001-07
Population (%)                                                 0.8         2.5         2.2
                                                                                                 GNI                                          Gross
Labor force (%)                                                1.5         2.6         2.7
                                                                                                 per                                         primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2001-07)                                            capita                                   enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)            ..          ..         ..
Urban population (% of total population)                        37          36         32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                43          51         57
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                        68          94         85
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                      14          27         29                Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)            81          58         68
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                              89          59         61
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)          101          94         94                         Zimbabwe
   Male                                                        102          99        100                         Low-income group
   Female                                                      101          88         89

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1987      1997        2006        2007       Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                  6.7        8.4           ..          ..
Gross capital formation/GDP                        14.9       18.1           ..          ..
                                                                                                                        Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                  24.0       37.6           ..          ..
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         17.7       11.1           ..          ..
Gross national savings/GDP                         15.7        9.1           ..          ..
Current account balance/GDP                         0.0       -9.8           ..          ..
                                                                                                 Domestic                                Capital
Interest payments/GDP                               2.0        1.9           ..          ..
                                                                                                 savings                                 formation
Total debt/GDP                                     42.8       57.9           ..          ..
Total debt service/exports                         31.6       21.2         4.3           ..
Present value of debt/GDP                             ..         ..          ..          ..
Present value of debt/exports                         ..         ..      251.8           ..
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                     1987-97    1997-07      2006        2007     2007-11
(average annual growth)
GDP                                       3.1       -5.0         ..          ..          ..                        Zimbabwe
GDP per capita                            0.6       -5.8         ..          ..          ..                        Low-income group
Exports of goods and services             9.4       -2.5         ..          ..          ..


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1987      1997        2006        2007       Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
                                                                                                100
Agriculture                                        14.4       18.9           ..          ..
                                                                                                 50
Industry                                           32.5       25.6           ..          ..
  Manufacturing                                    22.7       18.0           ..          ..          0
Services                                           53.1       55.5           ..          ..      -50
                                                                                                            02     03         04   05     06      07

Household final consumption expenditure            59.0       72.6           ..          ..     -100
General gov't final consumption expenditure        23.4       16.3           ..          ..                             GCF              GDP
Imports of goods and services                      21.3       44.6           ..          ..


                                                1987-97    1997-07       2006        2007       Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
                                                                                                 5
Agriculture                                          3.2      -4.7           ..          ..
Industry                                             1.6      -8.7           ..          ..      0
                                                                                                           02     03        04     05     06      07
  Manufacturing                                      2.1     -10.0           ..          ..     -5
Services                                             3.9      -5.7           ..          ..    -10

Household final consumption expenditure             5.4        -4.9          ..          ..    -15

General gov't final consumption expenditure        -0.8         0.5          ..          ..    -20
Gross capital formation                             2.8        -6.2          ..          ..                       Exports               Imports
Imports of goods and services                      11.9        -0.9          ..          ..

Note: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.




                                                                      61
                                                                                                                                           Zimbabwe
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1987     1997            2006     2007    Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
                                                                                         1,500
(% change)
Consumer prices                                12.5      18.8         1,237.9       ..   1,000
Implicit GDP deflator                           6.9      16.2               ..      ..
                                                                                          500
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                            0
Current revenue                                29.0      28.7               ..      ..                      02        03    04        05          06          07
Current budget balance                         -3.8      -4.0               ..      ..                                GDP deflator                 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -9.8      -8.6               ..      ..

TRADE
                                               1987     1997            2006     2007    Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           1,455     2,424               ..      ..   3,000
  Tobacco                                       328       609               ..      ..
  Gold                                          198       268               ..      ..
                                                                                         2,000
  Manufactures                                  560       900               ..      ..
Total imports (cif)                           1,073     2,654               ..      ..
  Food                                           26        84               ..      ..   1,000

  Fuel and energy                               109       250               ..      ..
  Capital goods                                 449     1,148               ..      ..         0
                                                                                                      01         02    03    04       05      06         07
Export price index (2000=100)                    83       94                ..      ..
Import price index (2000=100)                    85       82                ..      ..                            Exports             Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                        98      115                ..      ..

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1987     1997            2006     2007    Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 1,675     3,083           1,911    1,815    0
                                                                                                    01       02       03    04       05      06        07
Imports of goods and services                 1,452     3,627           2,079    1,976
Resource balance                                223      -544            -168     -161    -5

Net income                                     -214      -405            -252    -257
Net current transfers                             ..        ..              ..      ..   -10


Current account balance                          -2      -823            -304    -302
                                                                                         -15
Financing items (net)                           117       84              320     332
Changes in net reserves                        -115      739              -16     -30    -20

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          370      384            ..          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 1.7     12.1     1.62E+5           ..

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1987     1997            2006     2007    Composition of 2006 debt (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2,884     4,881           4,677       ..
  IBRD                                          373       473             445     455                                        A: 445
  IDA                                            58       399             501     522                    G: 1,093
Total debt service                              533      662               83       ..                                                     B: 501
  IBRD                                           34       82                0       0
  IDA                                             0        3                0       0                                                           C: 113

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                               124      126              221       ..
                                                                                                   F: 482                                    D: 602
  Official creditors                            171       70               14       ..
  Private creditors                            -108      -54              -10       ..
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)       -31      135               40       ..
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                  0        0                0       ..                                E: 1,441
World Bank program
 Commitments                                      0       12                0       0    A - IBRD                                          E - Bilateral
 Disbursements                                   35      132                0       0    B - IDA             D - Other multilateral        F - Private
 Principal repayments                             8       46                0       0    C - IMF                                           G - Short-term
 Net flows                                       27       86                0       0
 Interest payments                               26       39                0       0
 Net transfers                                    1       47                0       0

Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.                                                                         9/24/08




                                                                 62
Annex 9: Zimbabwe Map




                        63
