Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3194-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
GUYANA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
January 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performanece of
|  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
October 1975 - June 1, 1981
US$1.00 =  G$2.550
G$1.00 = US$0.392
Since June 2, 1981
US$1.00 = G$3.00
G$1.00 = US$0.333
ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM   -  Caribbean Common Market
CDB       -  Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA      -  Canadian International Development Agency
EDF       -  European Development Fund
EIB       -  European Investment Bank
GEC       -  Guyana Electricity Corporation
GNEA      -  Guyana National Energy Authority
GRB       -  Guyana Rice Board
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD      -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF       -  International Monetary Fund
MEM       - Ministry of Energy and Mines
0DM       -  UK Overseas Development Ministry
OLADE     -  Latin American Energy Organization
USAID     -  US Agency for International Development
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Guyana
Amount:                 US$2.0 million equivalent (SDR 1.7 million)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The main objective of the project is to facilitate
Government's efforts to establish blocks of poten-
tial oil-bearing areas for leasing to interested
companies for oil exploration, both offshore and
onshore.  The project comprises the following:   (a)
a petroleun exploration promotion component which
includes (i) consultant services (62 man-months) for
compiling existing geophysical data, analyzing seis-
mic and well data, carrying out geological studies,
preparing documents, including demarcation of blocks
for leasing, and presenting proposals for negotia-
tion with interested companies, advising Guyanese
negotiators and assisting the Government in formu-
lating its draft petroleum act and regulations; (ii)
technical assistance for establishing a professional
management group in the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM)   to   oversee   exploration   activiites   and
installing procedures for petroleum accounting;
(iii)  training  of  local   staff   in  petroleum
exploration techniques and university training in
geology/geophysics for three staff members; and (iv)
purchase of a vehicle and office and laboratory
equipment  and  materials;  and  (b)  a  heavy  oil
potential evaluation component which includes a
gravity/magnetic    survey,    shallow   exploration
drilling and consultant services (6 man-months) to
determine the extent of heavy oil deposits in the
eastern coastal area.
Benefits and Risks:    The project would help attract foreign capital for
more intensive exploration work. It would also help
determine whether heavy oil deposits exist in eco-
nomically exploitable quantities. The risk associ-
ated with the exploration promotion component is
that the prospects may not be attractive enough for
additional oil companies to sign exploration con-
tracts. In view of the country's geological poten-
tial, the anticipated benefits are considered to
outweigh the risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Thousands Equivalent)
Petroleum Exploration Promotion:
Consulting services for data
collection, seismic data analy-
sis, well data analysis, geolog-
ical studies, accounting and
management                               115           735          850
Assistance on petroleum legisla-
tion/model agreements                     25           145          170
Training program                               30          190          220
Vehicle, office and laboratory
equipment                                 10           130          140
Subtotal                             180         1,200        1,380
Evaluation of Heavy Oil Potential:
Consultants                                    15            85         100
Vehicles and Equipment                          2            55          57
Drilling Services                              53          320          373
Subtotal                              70           460          530
Base Costs                                      250        1,660        1,910
Physical Contingencies                           10           170         180
Price Contingencies                              40           170         210
Total Contingencies                   50           340          390
Total Project Cost                   300         2,000        2,300
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                      2,000        2,000
Government of Guyana                         300              -         300
300        2,000        2,000
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1982     1983    1984    1985
Annual                                        600      800      400      200
Cumulative                                    600    1,400   1,800   2,000
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 16102R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO GUYANA FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of SDR 1.7 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) to
Guyana for petroleum exploration promotion.  The credit would be on standard
IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.          An economic mission visited Guyana in March 1981 and an economic
report has been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum
on Guyana" (3486-GUA) of June 2, 1981.)  Annex I contains the basic country
data.
3.         Guyana's small, open economy is based on the production of sugar,
rice, bauxite and alumina. When Guyana gained its independence in 1966, much
of the economy was owned and controlled by foreign enterprises operating prin-
cipally in bauxite mining and alumina processing, sugar production and retail
trade.  The indigenous private sector was limited to local trading and agri-
cultural activities.   Shortly after independence, the Government sought to
gain control over national assets through the acquisition of foreign-owned
enterprises and nationalization of the bauxite/alumina and sugar industries.
At the same time, it created new state-owned financial institutions, expanded
the role of the state in distribution, agricultural marketing, manufacturing
and other industries, and promoted the development of cooperative enter-
prises. By 1980, the public sector accounted for about three-quarters of GDP.
4.         Guyana encountered a number of interrelated problems in the pursuit
of her economic and social goals in the 1970s.   Rising petroleum prices and
accompanying inflation resulted in a downward trend in the terms of trade.
At the same time, the Government's increasing participation in the economy
created uneasiness in the private sector and contributed to the flight of
skills and capital.  Weaknesses in management associated with the transition
from private to public ownership, together with a shortage of foreign exchange
in more recent years, led to inefficiencies in operation and inadequate main-
tenance of infrastructure and capital stock.   Pricing and income policies,
designed to limit increases in the cost of living and promote more equitable
income distribution, reduced incentives to produce and resulted in shortages
of basic commodities.   Inflation rates averaged between 15% and 20% during
1976-1980.   Mainly as a consequence of these factors, output, export volume
and real gross domestic income deteriorated, with the latter in 1980 amounting
to only 88% of 1976 levels.



-2-
5.         In recent years the Government has made concerted efforts to improve
Guyana's economic situation. In 1978 it initiated a demand management program
which included fiscal and monetary measures and an import cutback. In support
of the Government's program, the IMF provided an SDR 15 million standby facil-
ity. It was also supported by a program loan and credit of US$10 million from
the Bank Group. Together with a substantial improvement in sugar production,
these measures led to a turnaround of the public finances and the balance of
payments in 1978. However, while the monetary and fiscal targets of the pro-
gram were met, the expected growth in the economy did not occur.  Efforts to
control imports resulted in increasing shortages of intermediate goods and
spare parts, as well as essential consumer goods, which, in turn, caused the
depletion of productive capital stock and a deterioration in services.  With
the exception of sugar, which produced a record crop, output declined in all
sectors.
6.          In recognition that a longer-term program was required to address
the fundamental development constraints of the economy, a three-year program
focusing on the progressive removal of subsidies, the gradual elimination of
price controls, interest rate increases, and limits on increases in wages was
adopted in 1979, supported by an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF). Production
fell further in 1979, however, with real GDP at factor cost down by about
2.4%. A combination of heavy rains, lack of imported spare parts and inputs,
and reduced profit margins for rice growers affected the output of rice and
sugar.  Mechanical failures and work stoppages early in the year, together
with a five-week strike, sharply lowered alumina and calcined bauxite
production as well.   These developments were reflected  in both  the public
finances and the balance of payments, and Guyana was unable to meet its
targets under the EFF. Consequently, the agreement was interrupted.
7.         In 1980, the economic situation continued to deteriorate.  Although
output increased by about 2% in 1980, weaknesses in the major export sectors
continued.   In bauxite/alumina, an acute  shortage  of senior managers and
skilled technicians, unreliable power supply, and mishaps in the operation of
essential equipment hampered recovery from the effects of a five-week strike
the year before.   Sugar output fell as a consequence of unseasonal rains,
which affected both land preparation and yields per ton of cane.  The industry
continued  to feel the ill-effects of inadequate replanting during previous
years, a shortage of middle management staff, the transition to smut resistant
but lower-yielding varieties, and the continued scarcity of spare parts.
Despite a steady upward trend in yields, rice production was hampered by
inadequate incentives to rice farmers, heavy rains, and the late arrival of
300 tractors. At the same time, the public sector finances deteriorated, as a
consequence of sluggish growth in revenues and an expansion of both current
and capital expenditures.  The Government was forced to rely heavily on the
banking system; the increase in net banking credit to the public sector in
1980 amounted to one-quarter of GDP.  A similar deterioration took place in
the balance of payments. The current account deficit rose to 22% of GDP from
16% the previous year. Net external capital inflows were inadequate to fill
the  gap.   Gross  international reserves dropped  to  less  than  one month's
imports and external commercial arrears increased.
8.           In late 1980 and early 1981, the Government committed itself to
intensify its efforts to overcome the constraints to growth through increased
use of existing productive capacity, removal of obstacles to private sector



-3-
initiative, improving execution of the public sector investment program, and
increasing national savings. The economic program was supported by a new EFF
for SDR 100 million (later increased to SDR 150 million) and a structural
adjustment loan for US$14.0 million and credit for SDR 6.3 million. The
Government took a number of steps under the aegis of the structural adjustment
program. Electricity tariffs were increased to a level among the highest in
South America; transport tariffs were also raised.   Farmgate prices for rice
were increased by over 20%.   To improve the execution of the public invest-
ment program, a monitoring system was established with technical assistance
from the IBRD. In order to provide foreign exchange to the manufacturing sec-
tor, an export development fund was launched.   To improve productivity of
labor, a comprehensive wage incentive scheme was introduced in the public
sector.
9.        Despite these efforts, the economic situation continued to worsen in
1981. Bauxite/alumina production during the first six months of the year was
below the level achieved for the same period in 1980. Heavy rains during the
dry season have affected both sugar and rice production. On June 1, 1981, the
Government announced a number of adjustment measures, including a 15% devalua-
tion of the Guyana dollar, increases in consumption taxes and license fees,
and reductions in budgeted expenditures.   Financial ceilings for the second
year of the EFF were agreed upon with the IMF. Nevertheless, the poor produc-
tion performance of the economy has continued to affect Central Government
revenues as well as the performance of the public corporations, and public
sector savings will be negative in 1981. The balance of payments position has
weakened further at the same time, with gross international reserves down to
US$14 million (1.5 weeks of imports) as of September 30, 1981. These develop-
ments have prevented the Government from meeting the September 1981 financial
targets of the EFF.
Development Issues
10.       Guyana's development strategy aims at resuming economic growth, cre-
ating employment and strengthening the balance of payments through the expan-
sion of export-generating and efficient import-substituting activities.   In
the short run, the most pressing goals are improved utilization of existing
productive capacity, especially of exportable goods, the execution of a pro-
duction-oriented investment program in both the public and private sectors,
and a substantial increase in the level of national savings.  For the longer
term, the development strategy is directed at facilitating the structural
transformation of the economy in the following ways: (a) sustained growth in
the production of agricultural commodities, of mining, fishing and forestry
products, and of nontraditional manufactures, and a simultaneous restraint in
the rate of growth of the government sector; (b) diversification of the output
of the productive sectors by the introduction of new activities and by the in-
creased processing of the products presently produced as raw materials, such
as timber and root crops; and (c) substitution of the present large imports of
fossil fuels by the eventual installation of hydroelectric power and also more
efficient utilization of local and imported sources of energy.   By these
means, the Government hopes to improve the balance of payments substantially,
promote sustained growth in real income per capita, reduce unemployment and
underemployment, and provide the basis for development of energy-intensive
industry, such as aluminum processing, over the longer term.



-4-
11.        The Government is presently attempting to solve its economic diffi-
culties and pursue its development goals. In this regard, a number of criti-
cal issues will need to be addressed.
12.       The steady decline in output in the bauxite/alumina sector since its
nationalization in the early 1970s has been a major contributing factor to the
Government's deteriorating economic situation.   Moreover, Guyana, which has
historically enjoyed a near monopoly in the production of calcined bauxite (a
superior grade of bauxite used to line steel furnaces), may be facing increas-
ing competition from China and other new producers in the future.  The indus-
try needs to increase production and maintain it at stable levels in order to
regain its reputation as a reliable supplier and ensure that it retains its
present markets. While the industry has sought technical assistance from out-
side sources, this assistance has been directed at specific problem areas.
Given the large number of vacancies in executive positions, the technical
nature of the industry, and the critical role of effective management,
improvement in bauxite/alumina performance may require an association with an
established and successful mining company which could provide the required
managerial and technical expertise.
13.       In view of the weak long term forecast for sugar prices, the Govern-
ment's strategy in the sector has been to maintain the level of acreage de-
voted to the crop while increasing productivity. Production levels have taken
a downward turn, however, owing in part to declining yields. Since the intro-
duction of disease resistant varieties of cane have led to relatively lower
yields, efficiency in harvesting and processing have become increasingly im-
portant.   In view of the increasing average age of the cane worker and the
difficulty in obtaining sufficient labor in peak periods, the industry may
need to move to more mechanized cultivation techniques to improve its produc-
tion performance; this process, however, will entail the solution of several
formidable technical problems. Cultivation practices need to be improved to,
inter alia, avoid the delays in replanting that have contributed to the
downward trend in yields.   Maintenance of the sugar factories and of heavy
equipment also needs to be improved if down time is to be reduced. Finally,
there is a need to increase the use of fertilizer and other agricultural
inputs which has been limited because of the scarcity of foreign exchange.
14.        The rice sector has grown increasingly mechanized in the last ten
years, as a consequence of the introduction of new high yielding varieties of
seed which require timely application of fertilizer and adequate irrigation
and drainage. Total acreage of rice has declined as marginal lands have gone
out of production, but expanded use of double cropping has permitted an upward
trend in rice output. As the capital intensiveness of the industry has grown,
the role of the Guyana Rice Board (GRB) has become increasingly critical.  In
addition to export and domestic marketing, the GRB distributes subsidized in-
puts, provides machinery services, maintains a staff of extension workers, and
mills a large proportion of the rice paddy produced each year. In view of the
substantially increased production expected in the mid-1980s as major irriga-
tion and water control projects come on stream, the scope and characteristics
of GRB activities are being reassessed with a view to concentrating them in
those areas in which it can function more effectively, and to increasing the
overall efficiency and productivity of the rice subsector.  The Government is
currently assessing existing price relationships in the rice sector and estab-
lishing an appropriate system for determining pricing.



- 5 -
15.        In the area of energy, the Government has recognized the urgency of
developing a balanced energy program aimed at reducing reliance on imported
fuel.   In this context, the Government has given high priority to attracting
foreign private investment in petroleum exploration and development. In addi-
tion, the Government is taking action on a number of different fronts to
improve its energy situation, including improving the efficiency of its ther-
mal generating capacity, development of an energy conservation program, and
development of renewable energy sources, in particular hydropower. The devel-
opment of indigenous energy sources is essential if Guyana is to overcome the
single most intractable constraint to economic development and financial via-
bility, namely, its critical dependence on imported petroleum.
16.         In addition to the above sectoral issues, a number of policy con-
straints have impeded Guyana's economic progress. Private investment has fal-
tered during recent years in reflection of scarce foreign exchange and a lack
of understanding between private interests and Government.   In an attempt to
relieve these problems, the Government needs to seek technical assistance for
clarification and expansion of the country's Investment Code.   This should
lead to greater private participation in transport services, manufacturing and
processing, agricultural distribution and marketing, and construction and
machinery services. In order to improve work incentives for qualified person-
nel, the Government substantially increased salaries for managerial and
skilled staff in May of 1981, but the human resource constraint continues to
be a serious problem. Finally, the price control system has led to inadequate
production incentives for a number of commodities, including paint, timber,
fish, and rice. In the past year, the Government eliminated price controls on
timber, and plans substantial increases in rice prices in order to put farmers
on a sound financial base.   Further reductions in the coverage of the price
control system and other measures directed toward increasing competition
throughout the economy, would relieve the administrative burden on the Govern-
ment and promote more rational allocation of economic resources.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
17.       Guyana's structural adjustment effort has been designed, among other
goals, to speed execution of a well-conceived, albeit ambitious, public sector
investment program.   In keeping with a development strategy which envisions
exports as the major engine of growth, the program aims primarily at increas-
ing the volume and quality of production for export and upgrading essential
supporting infrastructure.   Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, ac-
counts for about 40% of the development program.  Projects in mining, indus-
try, and energy account for another 35%.  The remainder of the program pro-
vides for upgrading of essential social infrastructure, a substantial propor-
tion of which is allocated for the completion of the IBRD/IDA-financed second
education project.
18.        The total cost of the 1981-83 public sector investment program was
expected to be almost US$625 million.  However, the disappointing performance
of the economy in 1981 and the prospects for no real recovery in the immediate
future have substantially reduced the resources that the public sector will be
able to contribute to the financing of this program.   Public investment in
1981, which had been expected to be close to US$200 million, will probably be
some US$50 million less.  Similar shortfalls can be expected in 1982 with the
result that public investment will probably not exceed US$500 million during



1981-83.   In addition, external amortization payments during the period will
amount to about US$145 million, bringing total capital requirements to
approximately US$650 million.   Public  sector  savings are estimated  to be
negative in 1981 and zero in 1982.   Assuming moderate  growth  performance
thereafter in the range of 2-3% annually and assuming the Government is
willing to reduce Central Government current expenditures in real terms during
1982-83, public sector savings levels of 3% to 4% of GDP might be achieved by
1983. This could provide about 5% of the total 1981-83 capital requirements
and other domestic sources, including bank borrowing by Government, could at
most supply about 20%.  Gross disbursements from committed external resources,
which amount  to about US$300 million,  could provide 45%.   The remainder,
US$200 million, would need to be generated from additional external
assistance.   To the extent that the Government may be unable to achieve the
required savings or to mobilize the additional external financing referred to
above, the investment program will need to be rephased in order to make it
consistent with financing availabilities.
Economic Outlook
19.         Despite Guyana's continuing economic difficulties,  it has a good
resource  base  and  long-term  economic  potential.   While GDP is likely to
stagnate in 1981 and 1982, if the Government addresses major sector and policy
constraints without delay, output could increase at a rate of 3-4% annually by
1983.   Over  the longer term,  sustained  economic  growth will  require  the
continuing development of the country's export potential, improved execution
of public investment, expanded private sector investment, and the maintenance
of an economic policy framework conducive to growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.          The servicing of public external debt obligations has become an
increasing burden in Guyana for recent years; its ratio to foreign exchange
earnings  rose  from  4% in  1975  to  17% in  1980.    Given  the Government's
intention to contract no new external debt on commercial terms, and assuming a
moderate improvement in export performance, the debt service ratio is likely
to improve to about 15% in 1983.  Assuming the authorities continue to take
action to address the grave financial difficulties confronting them, a limited
amount of borrowing on conventional terms might be appropriate, but the bulk
of the country's capital requirements will need to be met out of concessional
sources of funds.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
21.          The first Bank loan made in 1961 to the then British Guiana for
agricultural credit was repaid in full.   Total lending to Guyana,  net of
cancellations, amounts to US$79.3 million in loans from the Bank and US$35.5
million in credits from IDA for 13 development projects and programs, includ-
ing the recent structural adjustment program.   In addition, an EEC Special
Action Credit of US$3 million equivalent was provided in 1979 to supplement
the first program loan and credit.   Reflecting the development needs of the
economy, past lending to Guyana has been largely for physical and social



- 7 -
infrastructure. 25% of Bank Group lending has been for sea defenses, highways
and power. Two education projects designed to improve secondary education and
strengthen agricultural and vocational skills account for 15% of Bank Group
lending to the country.   Assistance to agriculture, forestry and livestock
development projects account for 31% of total Bank/IDA lending to Guyana while
program and structural adjustment lending account for the remaining 29%.
There has been one IFC operation in Guyana, namely, a stove manufacturing
project, in which an investment of $2 million was made in 1979. Annex II con-
tains a summary account of the status of projects under execution.
22.       In general, execution of development projects has been slow.  Short-
age of managers and skilled technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of a
central office to coordinate and monitor project implementation, and inade-
quate local currency resources account for delays in project implementation.
The Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln 1949-GUA) aims at correcting some
of the institutional weaknesses.   The Government has retained consultants to
help coordinate and monitor the execution of the public sector investment pro-
gram.
23.       Several of the ongoing projects which were appraised before the sub-
stantial rise in world inflation are faced with large cost overruns. The Bank
has been assisting the Government in obtaining financing from external sources
to meet the needs of some of these projects.   In the case of the ongoing
Tapakuma Irrigation Project, which faced a 190% cost overrun, a financing
package was worked out with the UK Overseas Development Ministry (ODM), the
OPEC Fund and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
24.       Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana have been aimed at strength-
ening both the physical and social infrastructure as well as governmental in-
stitutions. The two Sea Defense projects (Ln. 559 and Ln. 765), approved in
1968 and 1971, were designed to protect the coastal agricultural lands and the
country's administrative and population centers from tidal inundation.   The
Highway Project (Cr. 301), which was designed to service the coastal agricul-
tural areas, included technical assistance to the Ministry of Works in prepar-
ing a national transport development strategy. Acting as the executing agency
of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank organized a
transport sector study and helped in setting up the Central Transport Planning
Unit. However, the difficult financial circumstances faced by Guyana in re-
cent years and the exodus of qualified engineers have affected the operations
of the Ministry of Works in the transport sector.   The Power Project (Ln.
875), cofinanced by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)and
ODM, and more recently by the CDB, was designed to increase thermal generation
capacity modestly, integrate the national power system through frequency con-
version and interconnection and provide training and institutional improve-
ment; however, these project objectives have been achieved to a limited degree
only. Acting as the executing agency of the UNDP, the Bank organized a survey
of Guyana's hydropower potential in 1974/75. The recent Technical Assistance
Project for the power sector (Ln. 1906) would help evaluate the various hydro-
power sites and upgrade the technical and managerial capabilities of the
Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC).   While studies relating to the hydro-
power sites are proceeding, only limited progress has been made so far in re-
taining long-term management consultants for the GEC.



- 8 -
25.       With a view to developing a relevant educational system and reducing
manpower constraints, the Bank Group has assisted Guyana with two Education
projects (Cr. 139 and Ln. 583 for the First Education Project and Cr. 554 and
Ln. 1106 for the Second Education Project).   These projects include multila-
teral secondary schools, community high schools and teacher training facili-
ties, and emphasize agricultural education and rural training.   The Second
Education Project also includes the development of curricula for technical
institutes, fellowships for technical teachers and a study to assess the
effectiveness of vocational and technical education and training system in
meeting Guyana's needs. This assessment study would help identify priorities
for long-term investment  in education and training.   Resource constraints
afflicting the economy have forced a slow-down in the implementation of the
second education project.
26.        In the agricultural sector, apart from the Upper Demerara Forestry
Project and the Black Bush Irrigation Project which were launched recently,
the Bank Group has financed other directly productive projects, namely, the
Livestock Project (Cr. 221), and the Tapakuma Irrigation Project (Ln. 1016).
These projects seek to utilize Guyana's land resources so that the country can
fulfill its role as the food supplier to the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)
while developing efficient livestock and rice production systems.   However,
the participation rate in the livestock project fell considerably short of
expectations because of inadequate institutions and inappropriate project
design.   The investment in the Tapakuma Irrigation Project has raised rice
yields substantially.   In order to assess the potential in agriculture, a
sector review was completed in 1977 under the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program.
The ongoing Tapakuma Irrigation Project, the IDB-financed MMA Irrigation Proj-
ect, and the Black Bush Irrigation Project are designed to help utilize the
country's agricultural potential and increase both export earnings and rural
household  incomes  by mid-1980s.    The Upper Demerara  Forestry Project  in
Central Guyana has been designed to increase significantly the export earnings
of the forestry sector by 1983. This project, as well as the irrigation proj-
ects, require complementary investments in training and institutional improve-
ments. Assistance in these areas is being arranged under programs financed by
other bilateral and multilateral agencies.  The Bank Group has also arranged
cofinancing for these projects from other external aid agencies. The Forestry
Project is cofinanced by the IBRD, IDB, EDF, and EIB, while the Black Bush
Irrigation Project is supported with financing from IDA, IFAD, IDB, and
USAID. The Bank Group's lending strategy will continue to emphasize increased
production for exports, while continuing support for essential infrastructural
projects.
27.       Bank Group assistance to manufacturing industry has just begun under
the recently approved structural adjustment loan (Ln. 1948 and Cr. 1098). The
Export Development Fund, for which US$8 million was provided under that loan,
is proceeding satisfactorily. The second technical assistance loan (Ln. 1949)
provides financing of an industrial policy adviser to promote Guyana's nascent
industrial sector.
28.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government on
its economic policies and development priorities.   The policy measures for
economic recovery, as well as the new production-oriented investment program
adopted by the Government, are designed to correct imbalances in the economy.



- 9 -
In support of the policy measures and with a view to easing critical shortages
in investment resources, the Bank has helped organize a subgroup of donors to
coordinate aid to Guyana under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for Cooper-
ation in Economic Development. In addition, to support the Government's over-
all investment program and to permit the import of inputs essential for pro-
duction and investment, the Bank Group provided Guyana a Program Loan and
Credit (Ln. 1622, Cr. 853) and a Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Ln.
1948 and Cr. 1039).  The objectives of the Program Loan were achieved insofar
as the adoption of stabilization measures were concerned, but in the absence
of improvements in bauxite/alumina and sugar exports, the balance of payments
difficulties persisted. The Program Performance Audit Report (No. 3155) sug-
gested that the solicitation of competitive bids should be confirmed by the
Borrower while applying for disbursement of loan funds.  Such a procedure has
been instituted in the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit now under way.
29.          So far, the actions taken by the Government towards structural
adjustment have dealt with interim adjustment of prices in the energy and rice
sectors, strengthening of the institutions to monitor revenue collection,
control of public expenditures, and establishment of an Export Development
Fund and a new Ministry of Manufacturing.   Actions  remain to be taken to
formulate a comprehensive investment code and a long-term export action pro-
gram and to simplify the licensing procedures.  In pursuing its dialogue with
Guyana on the release of the second tranche of the structural adjustment loan,
the Bank will continue to emphasize the need for urgent policy and institu-
tional reforms to promote efficiency in public enterprises and encourage
private investment.
30.         Given the critical foreign exchange situation of Guyana and the
total dependence of the country on fuel imports, the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project assumes high priority.   While earlier exploration efforts
were abandoned as being unattractive, the recent indication of interest among
small- and medium-scale oil companies to explore for oil in Guyana suggests
that private venture capital could be found for exploration and development of
the country's hydrocarbon resources, provided all available data could be
retrieved and offered to interested companies on commercially attractive
terms. The proposed project is designed to support this strategy.
31.       Future Bank Group activities in Guyana would help in the structural
transformation of the economy by supporting development of the country's
energy potential and improving utilization of existing plant in the export
sector.   These activities would also seek to reduce Guyana's dependence on
fuel imports and promote higher stages of processing of the country's mineral,
agricultural and forestry products.
32.         As of December 1980, the Bank Group accounted for 12.3X of total
external public debt outstanding and 10.3% of disbursed debt only.  In 1980,
the Bank Group accounted for 4.8% of gross disbursements and 5.6% of total
public debt service.



- 10 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
33.        Guyana's total energy consumption in 1980 amounted to about 5 mil-
lion barrels of oil equivalent.   Petroleum imports account for 80% of this
total.  The remainder is accounted for mostly by such traditional energy re-
sources as wood fuel, charcoal, rice chaff and bagasse. The country's hydro-
electric generating capacity (2MW) remains relatively insignificant in size.
34.         Rising world prices of petroleum products have led to a steadily
increasing foreign exchange burden on the country's economy, reaching a level
of US$140 million in 1980.
35.        The bauxite industry is the major energy user in Guyana, accounting
for about 44% of fuel imports. The electric utility company accounts for 13%
of total fuel imports for power generation. Other large claimants of imported
fuel are the sugar industry, transportation, domestic consumers and small in-
dustry.
36.        The country's installed electricity generating capacity amounts to
about 165 MW and is at present virtually all thermal-based. GEC operates 102
MW of the total capacity, while various captive plants of the bauxite/alumina
sector (35 MW), the sugar industry (24 MW) and a number of small industrial
units and isolated municipal systems (5 MW) operate the remainder of the total
capacity. About 60% of the urban and 5% of the rural populations have access
to electricity.
37.         There is substantial hydroelectric potential in the country.  In
1976,  a UNDP-financed  survey  identified  hydro  potential  totalling  7,200-
7,600 MW in the country's eight major rivers.   As already noted, under the
Bank-financed Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 1906), studies are under way to
prepare a program for the development of Guyana's hydropower potential, with a
view to reducing the country's dependence on fuel imports and promoting indus-
trial development based on the use of hydroelectricity.
38.        Guyana also possesses considerable energy potential in wood fuel,
with 83% of the land area covered by tropical forests.   At present, a very
limited amount of power is generated by timber wastes in sawmilling enter-
prises.
39.       Peat is another indigenous, potential energy source.  The Government
is interested in evaluating both the quantity and quality of peat deposits
discovered near the Atlantic Coast.   Other potential energy resources of
Guyana are additional bagasse and rice chaff. There also exist limited pros-
pects for the development of solar energy and wind power. Studies financed by
the Latin American Energy Organization (OLADE) and the USAID are in progress,
and are aimed at determining the efficiency of using these alternative energy
resources.



- 11 -
Sectoral Institutions, Objectives and Issues
40.       The Government is now in the process of developing a coherent energy
program.  Up until March 1981, energy policy was handled by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM), which is not staffed to fulfil this responsibility
adequately.  Aware of this deficiency and of the importance of energy to the
economy, the Government, by the Energy Act of 1981, created the Guyana Na-
tional Energy Authority (GNEA) as the country's sectoral planning and coordi-
nating agency. The Authority is comprised of five members, all appointed by,
and reporting to, the Minister of Energy and Mines.   The Chief Executive of
the Authority is its Chairman.
41.         The Energy Act of 1981 also established the Energy Ad.isury Coun-
cil. Membership of the Council consists of one nominee from each of 21 public
and private organizations which have interests in energy sector of the coun-
try. Some of these organizations are the State Planning Commission, the Bank
of Guyana, the Guyana Mining Enterprise, the Guyana Consumers Association, the
National Science Research Council, Texaco West Indies Ltd. and Esso Standard
Oil S.A., Ltd. The council serves as an advisory body to the GNEA.
42.        The GEC, the main public service electricity supplier in the coun-
try, continues to suffer from shortcomings in management and its financial po-
sition has been precarious. Poor operating practices and lack of maintenance
of existing power plants have made the public system unreliable and expen-
sive.  As noted earlier, one of the objectives of the Bank's Power Technical
Assistance Loan (Ln. 1906) is to help improve GEC's management performance.
43.        Effective energy policy in Guyana would benefit from:   (a) prompt
elaboration of a national energy plan and a national electrification program
based on efficient utilization of feasible hydropower development; (b) im-
provement in the efficiency of energy use and direct methods of energy conser-
vation such as retrofitting in industry; and (c) quantification and evaluation
of the potential for developing other indigenous energy resources to reduce
dependence on foreign oil. An energy assessment of the country is currently
being prepared with financial assistance from USAID and executed by CARICOM.
Its purpose is to identify energy use throughout the economy and possibilities
for energy conservation and fuel substitution, as well as to develop alterna-
tive scenarios.  This energy assessment should provide the GNEA with a good
quantitive basis for evaluating policy options.
Energy Conservation
44.        Guyana has been pursuing energy conservation measures in industry,
transport and household use.  As one of the main results of this policy, the
major energy user in Guyana, the Guyana Mining Enterprise, reduced its energy
consumption by approximately 18% in 1980.   Besides rehabilitating equipment
and reorganizing its production processes, the mining company has established
close monitoring of fuel use in all areas of its activities. The sugar corpo-
ration has introduced similar measures of process reorganization, equipment
rehabilitation and monitoring of fuel use.  In addition, it has extended the
use  of bagasse  even during  out-of-crop  season.    Increase  in electricity
tariffs has resulted in reduced energy consumption in household, commercial
and government establishments.   Increases in selling price of petroleum and
closure of petrol stations on weekends have helped in reducing gasoline



- 12 -
consumption by 7% during 1980.   Limited progress has been made in utilizing
wood waste, in lieu of oil, in the claybrick and lumber drying plants. Reha-
bilitation of the GEC's thermal generating plants, measures to reduce the
company's electricity transmission and distribution losses (estimated at about
30% of power generated) and completion of the energy assessment study should
determine, inter alia, the scope for further conservation of energy in indus-
tries and ought to lead to adoption of measures for further economies in
energy usage.
Activities of Aid Donors in the Energy Sector
45.       Guyana is currently receiving assistance from several international
organizations and bilateral sources for carrying out a large number of
energy-related projects and studies. These include technical assistance from
Brazil on production and use of ethanol; establishment of demonstration units
to produce methane from waste material (OLADE); study for utilization of wood-
wastes (IDB) and rice husks (USAID) for energy production; experimental test-
ing of solar dryers in cooperation with OLADE; technical assistance for a
hydropower development plan and institution building of GEC through Bank Loan
1906-GUA; installation of 4,500 KW of diesel generating sets using methane gas
extracted from woodwaste (part of the Upper Demerara Forestry Project financed
jointly by IBRD, EEC and IDB); and feasibility studies for converting kilns at
the alumina plant from oil to charcoal fuel (CARICOM/USAID).
Outlook for the Energy Sector
46.        Guyana is facing severe energy problems because of its heavy depen-
dence on oil imports for energy requirements and its poorly developed resource
base.   Although a program is being prepared to substitute hydro sources for
imported oil used in electricity generation, Guyana's energy requirements will
continue for some time to be met largely through imported petroleum.  In any
case, the search for domestic sources of petroleum would complement Guyana's
efforts to develop its potential hydroelectric and other renewable energy
sources. In this connection, petroleum exploration is particularly attractive
since it can be carried out largely through investments by private companies
and because even a small commercial discovery would go a long way toward meet-
ing the country's energy needs.
The Petroleum Subsector
47.         Guyana does not produce crude oil or natural gas nor does it have
refining facilities.   Total petroleum product imports have increased from
US$21.6 million in 1973 to US$140 million in 1980, mainly as result of rising
import prices. Guyana is obtaining financial assistance from Trinidad through
an oil financing facility which mitigates in part the immediate impact on the
economy of rising import prices for petroleum products.



- 13 -
48.        Petroleum product prices in Guyana--shown below in US dollars--are
not subsidized:
cif. Price      Retail Price
Gasoline1/                          1.13              1.83
Kerosene                            1.26              1.29
Diesel                              1.11              1.14
Fuel Oil                            0.80              0.80
Government-imposed consumption taxes range from 2% for kerosene and diesel to
60% for gasoline.  Fuel oil is not subject to government price control.  Users
import fuel oil directly at world market prices.  The relatively high tax on
gasoline  is designed  to conserve  energy use  in vehicles.   In any case,
assurances were obtained that petroleum product pricing policy will be
consistent with full import costs and efficient energy usage.   (Section 3.08
of draft Credit Agreement.)
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
49.         MEM is responsible for petroleum matters, including negotiations
with oil companies.   Its human resources are limited. For the hydrocarbon
sector, for example, there is only one petroleum engineer in the Ministry.
MEM is in the process of setting up a Petroleum Unit within the organization.
The Unit, which will be established by March 1982, is to be headed by a Chief
Petroleum Engineer and will include a petroleum engineer as deputy chief, two
geophysicists, one petroleum geologist and two technicians.
50.       MEM has prepared a preliminary revision of the draft Petroleum Act,
together with regulations and a model contract for hydrocarbon exploration and
production. There are several gaps in the documents and particular attention
needs to be given to the fiscal provision and mechanics for possible
government participation. The Government has made an approach to the UNDP for
assistance  in diagnosing and rectifying some of these deficiencies.   The
proposed  project would provide  for  legal  consultants  to ensure  that  the
substance of the proposed petroleum act, regulations, model contracts, and
other related documents are consistent with the objectives of attracting
foreign private investment in the high risk activity of petroleum search and
development.
Petroleum Geology and Potential
51.          Onland:   About 85% of Guyana's land area has no potential for
hydrocarbon production. Sedimentary rocks are found in only two separate and
distinct areas. One is an area of 9,000 km2, known as the onshore Takutu Rift
Basin (about 500 km south of Georgetown), which might have as much as 4,000
meters of sediments of Mesozoic age.  These sediments are considered to have
fair-to-good oil potential even though only a small amount of exploration has
1/ Average for premium and regular gasoline.



14 -
been undertaken in this inaccessible area.   The second area is along the
northeast coast where sediments extend inland for some 200 km south of
Georgetown and cover a 23,000 km2 area.  This is only a small portion of the
vast sedimentary area that extends eastward into Suriname and northward into
the Atlantic Ocean well past the 200-meter water depth line.
52.         Based on the sedimentary section encountered in the eight onshore
wells that have been drilled to basement in the coastal area, the deposits
consist of continental-to-brackish sediments of Upper Creataceous to contempo-
rary age.  Although the total thickness of these sediments exceeds 6,500 feet
(2,000 meters) on the northeast coast, oil does not appear to have been gener-
ated, but biogenic gas may be present within the swamp deposits.   Oil might
have migrated from the deeper basin offshore and this may explain heavy oil
(17-19 gravity) which has been encountered at depths of less than 200 meters
near Calcutta in Suriname.
53.        Offshore:  The Berbice basin occupies the entire offshore of Guyana
and, out to the 200-meter water depth line, it has an area of 48,000 km2. The
sedimentary section, however, probably extends even farther north into deeper
water.  Nine exploratory wells have been drilled in this vast area and from
these wells it has been determined that a marine section of Tertiary and Upper
Cretaceous age is present. This section is known to contain rocks capable of
generating hydrocarbons--both sandstones and limestones that might be good
reservoir and sealing rocks.
Status of Petroleum Exploration
54.         History:   Oil exploration onshore began in Guyana in 1941 when
Trinidad Leaseholds Company commenced drilling on the northeast coast near New
Amsterdam.    To  date,  eight  wells,  including  a  deep-water  well  in  the
Georgetown vicinity, have been drilled with only slight traces of oil.
55.         The Takutu Rift Basin in the south is being explored by a group
headed by Home Oil Company.   To date, they have completed about 800 line-
kilometers of reflection seismic studies and have had enough encouragement to
drill.  A rig has been moved into the area by way of the Amazon River, and
drilling of one well began on October 31, 1981. By the end of 1981, drilling
to 6,000 ft. of a proposed 8,500 ft. well had been completed.
56.         Offshore exploration began in 1958, when Standard Oil Company of
California undertook a 1,280 km reconnaissance reflection seismic program with
widely spaced lines over the entire Guyanese continental shelf.  No drilling
followed this work.  As a result of further offshore concessions granted to
five different companies, a total of 14,364 km   of seismic data of widely
varying quality had been obtained.   Offshore, three of the companies have
drilled a total of nine wells between 1967 and 1976, for a total of 98,153
feet.  Numerous shows of gas were reported and some very light oil was noted
in one well.
57.         Present Situation:   The Home Oil group's exploration work in the
Takutu Rift Basin is the only activity onshore.  Offshore, a single block of
about 8,000 km2 was recently acquired by the Seagull-Dennison group.   The
remaining offshore acreage (some 40,000 km2) is not under lease. In addition,
discussions are being held between the Government and Western Geophysical



- 15 -
Corporation for a speculative seismic survey covering a sizable area
offshore.   Data acquired from this activity will be offered for sale to
companies interested in exploring for oil in Guyana.
IDA's Role
58.        The Government recognizes that the geology of Guyana and the large
acreage warrant further exploration. In view of the country's limited finan-
cial resources, it has decided to continue entrusting oil exploration to for-
eign oil companies and to undertake an active promotional effort to attract
the interest of the oil industry to invest in Guyana.   So far, the Govern-
ment's efforts have had only limited success. Lack of systematic preparation
of relevant data, lack of trained personnel and the absence of an organization
to carry out an intensive program to promote exploration are among the major
reasons for the low level of activity in this sector in Guyana. Consequently,
the Government has sought external assistance to help organize its exploration
promotion activities in a systematic manner under an adequately staffed
Petroleum Unit. The occurrence of heavy oil deposits in neighboring Suriname
suggest the possibility of similar occurrence of heavy hydrocarbons in Guyana
which needs to be investigated.
59.        The Association's role would be to finance the specialist services
needed to help the Government to (i) retrieve all relevant data from its own
sources as well as from the logs of oil companies which have carried out field
investigations in Guyana,  (ii) demarcate blocks for leasing to exploration
companies, (iii) negotiate equitable contracts with oil companies, and (iv)
monitor the activities of the colipanies engaged in oil exploration in Guyana.
Besides, the Association would also finance a preliminary survey and test
drilling to confirm the occurrence of heavy oil in coastal Guyana.   The
Association's participation in these activities should help establish the
potential for Guyana to develop an oil industry with substantial foreign
private investment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
60.         Following up on the findings of a Bank reconnaissance mission in
December 1979, the project was identified in September 1980 and appraised in
March 1981.   Credit negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from Decem-
ber 17 to 22, 1981. The Guyanese delegation was led by Mr. H.O. Bovell, Per-
manent Secretary of MEM.  A credit and project summary appears at the begin-
ning of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
61.       The primary objective of the project is to support the Government's
efforts to promote exploration and development of oil-bearing areas in Guyana
by oil companies. The project would consist of two components, one for petro-
leum exploration promotion and another for evaluating the heavy oil potential
of Guyana, as described below:



- 16 -
(A)   Petroleum Exploration Promotion Component.  MEM would retain
62 man/months of consulting services as follows:
(i)  Exploration consultants (40 man/months).  These experts--
including an explorationist and a geophysicist, as well
as other specialists on short term assignment--will
assist in:
(a) collecting, compiling and organizing existing geo-
logical and geophysical data;
(b) preparing presentation documents on areas to be of-
fered for exploration to foreign companies;
(c) propagating Guyana's petroleum potential among oil
companies, and, together with the legal consultants,
negotiating exploration contracts;
(d) monitoring the activities of operating companies;
and
(e)  integrating the data submitted by operating compa-
nies in MEM's interpretation of Guyana's basins.
(ii) Legal consultants (10 man/months) will assist in:
(a) preparing a final draft of the Petroleum Act, and
its regulations, including a model contract; and
(b) negotiating exploration contracts.
(iii) Accounting and management consultants (12 man/months)
will assist in:
(a) installing procedures for petroleum accounting dur-
ing exploration; and
(b) establishing a small, well organized group within
MEM to be responsible for overseeing petroleum
exploration.
(iv)  Training.   The proposed project would also provide for
on-the-job training as well as intensive training courses
abroad for Guyanese technical staff in petroleum explor-
ation techniques, laboratory procedures, and related
activities. In addition, it would provide for university
training in geology/geophysics for two staff members and
a postgraduate university course for one candidate in
either of these fields.
(v)  Equipment.  MEM would be provided with a vehicle, office
and laboratory equipment and materials, including storage
cabinets for geologic and geophysical data, technical
books, and special copying machines for logs and pro-
files.



- 17 -
B. Evaluation of Heavy Oil Potential
On the basis of magnetic data, it is assumed that the heavy oil
deposit encountered in Suriname may extend into the coastal area
southeast of Georgetown.   The proposed project would include a
gravity/magnetic survey in this area as a first step.   If the
results of the survey appear promising, an appropriate number of
small diameter holes--expected to be no more than three-- would
be drilled to shallow depths. This drilling would permit sample
cuttings which would be recovered and evaluated for oil shows.
Cores of interesting sections would also be cut. To help eval-
uate the hydrocarbon potential, a total of six man/months of
consulting services would be provided under the credit.
Cost Estimate
62.        The total cost of the proposed project (net of duties and taxes) is
estimated at of US$2.3 million, including contingencies of about US$390,000,
or about 20% of the baseline cost estimate. The average cost per man/month of
consulting services has been estimated at US$14,200 including travel, subsis-
tence and overhead.   This amount is reasonable taking into account the high
level of specialized expertise required and the fees prevailing in the petro-
leum industry.  Foreign price contingencies were calculated at 8.5% for 1982
and 7.5% for 1983, 1984 and 1985. Local price contingencies were calculated
at 15% annually for 1982, and thereafter. Physical contingencies were calcu-
lated at about 10% for all project components.   Estimated costs by project
component are given in the project summary.  The proposed IDA credit of SDR
1.7 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project, or about 87% of the total cost. Local costs, total-
ling the equivalent of about US$300,000, would be financed by the Government
of Guyana.
Project Implementation
63.        MEM would be responsible for implementation of the proposed proj-
ect.  For this purpose, a Petroleum Unit would be established with necessary
counterpart personnel to the foreign consultants (Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of
draft Credit Agreement).  Establishment of this unit would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit Agreement (Section 5.01 of draft Credit
Agreement).   The consultants would be responsible, among other things, for
providing on-the-job training to the local counterpart personnel.  MEM would
designate trainees for overseas training and studies by September 30, 1982
(Section 3.05 of draft Credit Agreement).
64.       The draft petroleum legislation and related documents, including any
revisions thereof proposed by UNDP-financed consultants, would be discussed by
MEM with the Association within 60 days of the completion of the legal consul-
tants' review and before the legislation is submitted for government approval
(Section 3.03(a) of draft Credit Agreement). Although the draft Petroleum Act
envisages the establishment of a state-owned petroleum corporation, the final
decision on its establishment, as well as its eventual timing, staffing and
scope of activities would be reviewed with the Association before it is set up
(Section 3.03(b) of draft Credit Agreement). Before proceeding with the heavy



- 18 -
oil investigation, the Borrower, assisted by a consultant, would provide the
Association for its review with a timetable and a detailed proposal for exe-
cuting this component.   Such proposal should identify the access to site,
sources of manpower and drilling equipment(Section 3.04 of draft Credit Agree-
ment).  The exploratory drilling of shallow wells for heavy oil exploration,
as warranted, would be done by contract using locally available drilling
equipment.   These activities would be supervised by a consultant who should
ensure inter alia that good drilling practices are followed.   If these field
investigations yield positive results for commercial development, an evalua-
tion consultant experienced in heavy oil development will prepare a report and
assist in promoting interest among oil companies.
65.        The terms of reference for consultant services would be drawn up in
consultation with the Association.  The project is expected to be carried out
over a four-year period. A tentative schedule for project execution is given
in Annex IV.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Consultants required for the petroleum exploration promotion compo-
nent, as well as for the heavy oil evaluation component, would be selected in
accordance with Association's guidelines. The relatively small quantities of
equipment and the few vehicles (about US$100,000 for laboratory and filing
equipment, US$35,000 for vehicles, and US$35,000 for survey equipment required
for the heavy oil evaluation) would be procured through limited international
tendering in accordance with normal procurement practices of the Government
which are satisfactory to the Association. Drilling services contracts would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.
67.       The credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services,
overseas training, and imported equipment and materials.
(b) 85% of total expenditures for drilling services.
Disbursements would be fully documented.   The amount allocated to drilling
services for the heavy oil component would be disbursed only upon the Associa-
tion being satisfied with a proposal to be submitted by MEM for executing this
component (see para 64 above and para 4 (b) of Schedule 1 of draft Credit
Agreement). The closing date of the credit is December 31, 1985.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
68.        MEM would maintain separate project accounts and would send audit
reports on such accounts to the Association within four months of the end of
each fiscal year.  The proceeds of the sales of geophysical data and reports
collected under the project would be kept in a special account and used to
support activities in the energy sector (Section 4.01(b) of draft Credit
Agreement).   MEM would submit quarterly reports on the progress of project
activities in a format acceptable to the Association. MEM would also submit a
project completion report not later than six months after the closing date of
the Credit.



19 -
Benefits and Risks
69.       The major benefit from the project would be to promote foreign
investment for petroleum exploration in Guyana, by presenting in an integrated
manner the results of existing geological and geophysical data on the coun-
try's hydrocarbon potential. At the same time, by improving the knowledge of
petroleum potential in the country and by assisting in the adoption of petro-
leum legislation and contracts in keeping with prevalent practices in compara-
ble countries, the project would enable the Government and the companies to
negotiate equitable agreements for oil exploration and development providing
for sizeable work commitments. Given the extreme dependence of Guyana on fuel
imports, the discovery of any recoverable hydrocarbons would contribute sig-
nificantly to the economy.
70.       The project faces the risk that the areas offered to the companies
may not be sufficiently attractive.  In view of the country's geology, the
preparatory work to be undertaken by the consultants is expected to turn up
sufficient prospects to generate interest among oil companies.  The record of
Guyana's nationalization of foreign enterprises might discourage investment by
oil companies. However, the recent entry into Guyana of foreign enterprises,
including independent Canadian and US oil companies, the existence of invest-
ment insurance agreements with Canada and the US, and the drafting and enact-
ment of a well structured Petroleum Code would help attract foreign oil
companies to Guyana.
71.       The Government attaches high importance to the development of domes-
tic hydrocarbon resources. The proposed project, which will set up a special
Petroleum Unit for this purpose and provide both on-the-job training and spe-
cialized overseas training, would help in creating the institutional capacity
to obtain and interpret relevant data to promote new exploration activities.
To ensure that the trained counterpart staff will continue working in Guyana's
petroleum sector, the Government would require trainees to execute bonds
obliging them to serve in Guyana for specific periods.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Guyana and the Asso-
ciation and the recommendation of the committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors.
73.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report. A special condition of effectiveness would be the estab-
lishment of the Petroleum Unit in MEM (para 63).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 27, 1982



- 21 -                                        Annex l
Page 1 of 5
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
GUYANA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AKtA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)f.E
TOIAL             215.U                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTUKAL       13.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (Us))                   240.0        350.0      580.0                    1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       578.8       1090.2    1159.0                    1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MIU-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   564.0          716.0      834.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 26.4           23.3       21.9                      64.2                       53.2
POPULAIION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YtEAR 20UU (MILLIONS)                          1.2
STATCONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          2.6          3.3        3.9                     34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       41.5         52.3       59.7                     94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           46.6         47.6       40.8                     40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                           50.2         48.9       55.5                     55.3                       61.5
b. YTS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          3.5        3.7                      4.0                        8.3
POPULAEION GROWTH HATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          2.4Lc      1.7L                      2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                1.6          1.1        1.0                       3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIETH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.7         35.1       29.1                      31.4                       22.9
CKUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND).       9.7          7.4        6.7                       8.4                        9.1
GRUSS KEPKODUTLION RATE                3.3          2.4        1.7                       2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
AUCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRlED WOMEN)    ..             ..
PUOD8 AND NUIRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1UD)            95.0         96.0       95.0                     108.3                     119.8
PER CAPIIA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RlEQUIRalELNTS)                  103.0        102.0      110.0                    107.6                      125.7
PROIEiNS (GRAMS PER DAY)            57.0         58.0       61.0                      65.8                       92.5
UF WHIlC  ANIMAL ANS  PULSE       25.0         30.0       26.0                      34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGE6 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.3          6.7        4.3                       7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIPL EXPECTANCY AT BIRTHi (YEARS)    61.3          64.4       67.7                      64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY KATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             63.1         38.2         ..                      70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOIAL                                 ..         72.0       80.5                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      100.0                      79.7
RUKAL                                 ..         63.0       75.0                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         93.0       96.0                      59.9
URBAN                                            95.0       99.0                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..         92.0       94.0                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3889.7       4287.4    7660.4                     1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1730.0/e    1059.3       807.0                    1288.2                      896.6
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              177.8Je      212.0      207.4                     471.2                      262.3
URBAN                               59.0         88.9       99.4                     558.0                      191.8
RURAL                             1828.0       1564.2    1066.8
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         37.3         ..                        ..                       18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SlZt OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.0          5.4
URBAN                                4.4           ..
RURAL                                5.1           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RUUM
TOTAL                                2.1          2.1
URBAN                                1.7          2.1
RURAL                                2.1           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
*   The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $690 and 793 thousands.



-22 -                                          Annex I
Page 2 of 5
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.A/S
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                107.0         98.0      99.0                     101.7                     105.9
MALE                 107.0       100.0      100.0                    103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               106.0        96.0       98.0                    101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 33.0         55.0      60.0                      35.3                      66.3
MALE                  36.0        55.0       59.0                     34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                30.0        56.0       60.0                     35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 14.0            5.1        7.0/d                   30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         29.0      32.0                      29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          32.0         25.0         ..                     15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        91.3         .-                     80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         19.0         25.3      35.0                      42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         65.6        111.7     369.5                     215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                     89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  67.0         61.5       62.6                     62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  8.0          11.0       12.6                      3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       173.7        205.9      268.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.6         23.8      25.1                      22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              37.0         33.0       33.8                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 28.7         42.0      44.5                      23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.8         28.8       32.1                     31.8                      42.3
MALE                                 47.8         44.1       48.1                     49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                               13.9         13.6       16.2                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.8        1.4                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.8/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.5/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.37           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.67           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    187.6
ESTIM4ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      171.0                    513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      171.0                    362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1975;  /e 1963;
/f 1955-56, excluding self-employed in the high income bracket.
May, 1981



-3 -                                                                      Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF 901C01, INDICATORS
oe:Altho-gh the.aaa d       druan1,     I fromsoures   . geneall  judged the motatoia ead reliable, it should also he toted tht they nay oat be ita-
natonaly  raprhi  hco..f. holoko   radartzod doffoitlons and -ou-pts -ad ho dtfEersot cotottlasih  oollotiog the data.  The data ste, I.ne-
rheleas, useful to descrbe orders of  agoittade, iodioate trns,ad oha-aterie certain suIte diffeosan..  hetoeneoIo.o.otlee.
The oaftrancet grup  ooeyt  (1) tha sam  cootry group of rho .uhlnot cou ntry and (27 a coun try group aith  -oreubt h%gher ovorugbuo ta   ha. ooutrry grop
of te aujoo  oraory  excPt for  Ca.pital Surplus Oi1 tEpore-" group aheo   'ifddl  I-...e North Afrita and Ifddle las tIa ohsn etseo-trne
e-l-uttladotia)   In the ref-eeue group dat   he..nge   r .I          populatlot -egi91      rt1    eirmcc   u e    ac"riaa u  sh."o -uly ohe
sai-toy at the oo...nria he a group h.a data for tho  leOatn Inote  oeag   fo                      -aroamu   the ordci--r  dyrodde or the  -elohlliy of date
andusotuootor..,..urouo-uI.h....rctaed .-iaelugan-cagontIfoosurIdtttotoaae. The......oSre,aoor orlyuafahromor                                          thes--     Icef
itnSdloarco etatien  oaog rho  -o-uy enod -ese-c  gr-upe.
LAND fAfth  (thruade   a)Poyclutior yet fHnputol Ber'- 'tLI urho,. an                                                                                Iua  - Pcpulotioo  (total,
Total -  oa   ufr   racmralgladae              nr   uen                                  ra, and ruoul) dlnided hyth1lrrcempoori- o-r-  of hospital heda
AaOoucl- Otlmate of  arlrultural are  used teapororl   r  emoly -P, .Uy                    roolall  copblIc sod pItiIrrgerc-1u  epcn ifedhamna  a Indre
tor t opa, Pasaes       taket oud kirohen gardes0  to InIe f01100; 1978 dor.thhlttinotr.   Honyitohe ar  en-thisfonnt  permnetly staffed
ty at lenI    orphysOior..  tohl puur oovdiog pouinfpally tueta-
IS  IS  djil  lll  -bype  cyla  sruaoaatcuGet  akerpIma   a-r    cur eore ca r to-lodd.  Puro1 hoaputolo. h,oanr, uniudo heslrh
oulsoed hy se   oorromto  asWrl   at   tas(97-9ai): 161C,                                         ord medroal . ca er  ou eyroar-tly stuffed hya phystn   (hot bya
1Opy, aed 1979 dat.-                                                                             aedloI_        toI       ure   idonf e, et.: nfthrh ottr oo-puoinetare-
donor. aod proride ailelted couge of  edlu-I foculituirs.  PoF sars
flFthGY C0iNl9fFTlO Flu CAPITA - An-Ia -on-uptico           tamnolot           ca                    ira -  upetubohoptl  inolade  8M. prlaciyal/gro..ra1 hospitals,
sod llgalte, petroleum, ntrlgun aad hydo-, nucea  and g-ohua  oIa-                               enod oural ho.ptiul  local or otu-  hosyha.li end medical and materruop
teitchy) ho hilognas of coa  oqJivaeor pan canto;  96ho.. 19'0. aol 1979                         cent-ro   Sysolalloa1d hosPirale ure looludedocyudrtal
d.t..                                                                  Ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frmhsttl   iiddb   h   amt ec af bfeds.r                -e
POPULATION ANl VITAL. STATISTICSfI)pt]'dpi.   yt.  .brI   ..
Total Pcp  .ianio   Nil-Tear  rth--onda  - hA. of July 1; 196E. 1970, sod 1979              MOi -ITNG
dorm.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aven   "IofHushl   .o.c.n. ra  i-ehnd 1 - r.url. -bnhs. -adrora
Tcbo  orloulo(rrcorof otl)-  uri  c  uha  toucolyuoiauc;               huserl  noaarnofo  rop  f Induidol  ncshre lining qa-iars
diffemeutdsftottios of ucha  orean my afIter  c-p-rbility of dots                    sod rhair nima.r. stai.  A hoader nr Sdger may or moy eon be included in
a-9o touiolt; i960, 1970, and 1979 data,                                                        rho hosaId tot tstaitica1 parpae.
Ponlale  PejoronA eao   uber of eoosPer room- ttl   ra,ndrrl Aeaesm
FPselofo  is year 20000 - Cuerot ppusio   ru"ircir   oon  Isa   n18                  n Tof poar...  Idr room  In ollurhac, aud Irural oc-cupied ooeeoa
totl  opisrlo  by age and ao sod them   motality nod  Iteroittyree.da -ugs epertorly.    oelnaardao-postaanread
Peojerriar parama,trsfoe tonraity n-r  coprlaenIf three 1-nlesnum                            cn-cpled porte.
iglife  aeerooc  anbrh         IIr.anathnttynpncinna100gAcoSs t ttlorrr   (ocr   fduolne      oa,uho   e   as 
1-1a, ned fotsl  loft  --te-ary  rabhhl!ieiog at-77.5 yP.n..  Then paro-                     foneotoca  doehioge ofobV oetniotity in llivig quartorsie . preag.
fertilitycoo-rdirg to iose-       oet   alpu-    foul_    lolgyroocr
each fcouilry isthr   aho..oeoftia   aloe  -obin-tor-  of morrucny                       ELDICATION
udfrurytenda for p-eolninpt        yas                                            bise   ooimo  Otr .
the tao. am..    eul0.h  dahrt,al  ioctor  roar  torotfsoot  r allagen 0Itir rhmar  lana  asperotgs  freprnr
maIuaoep rautr .. TheIt  cIvdo    af_t e    pdter fetlt-    aesdotrt                          Ptimoy school-ago  Ipopulttot; cormIly isolades  htldree -ead h-li
thr replacaneor leoni of utir oat roproduorica ear, ah:c sach gyroatto             orsbht ndjotrd for dlf fecor lengtha of primary sd-ctu;fo
of --ma r-Pepioe  i-Infe...c tly.  The aroric..rar  poycloti. slat oJ onre   ibuiealeouirrrimn   o   ardi    eta
esIate-td c  th  hIeulstof ohs prjceItaotrttc    frr  cusor                                      ucse  ouuh   oa              -tlo  o .aoo  th _fyca  abo  sf
In rho year TIle,r he rt   fdnimo   rnio   rot  toe replace-i..   . Ircoudrysho-tta,ma orgeae-loprdu   boe.od
meet lanai..If                                                                          edocattooroqu p  Plires at bloner four p  h.r offuprt    riareiaruriP
Yea utnirarnroplaror  s mcho   - bm  earahe  netiaurypoplaroqprovidee gene.ral, nonaiona1, or tsrhoPr uriniog loarrucu   feP.p.;
enno baa hoer rearhod.Th                                                             usually"-ryp.pl.t.,  ..    of- 11q . 00 17 .year  of ugr;orsodac  coorae ad ire goossi
Poruoto-esio                                                                                         olded
Prs.fo- Id-your Puplarlor pareuer  kolumtor  (100 ),e-taes( of                         V-ctuoo :deuroll..rt (pernrut Ifasroodur)   Voarineal inatitutuons
tonal san  I9b0, 171ad 199da.                                                                  I-olode rorhical. lod-teriltalo  otherprogros  abih aperte ied.p.nd-
Pr s.  aar Iatora1 lacd -Computed  iubuv- for agriculou-a  iaol                                   rotly or aa depactruote of_scodar  ineitu-Ios
only; iNf0, 197f ae  t7l da.                                                                 Pui.tace.a.t. nmao   o   sendurn - T.tnl etadertaeatrolld to
FouatrbA   rrac-rur P fe.r.m t  - ChOldro-  (0-14 fete).  orkiri-age (15-                     primary and1acuar   ari   uided by  ..mhors of itoahere io rho
61 year), adrnrd         (65  e yeanda -n-) a  p               Icose f ai-erPopo-                 oorespooding tevel.
la1tion; 1960, 1970, sad 1979 dat.                                                               hai1 -rro  rate  rree)-Literte adolts (able to read and -tit.)
P         '-ltonicth hate (Perren) -toa-Aoslgrtetnoftctrl aid-                                     ouper-e-ge of tuit1 ado1e populatior ugod 15 yeses and Inr.
osor  .pupolti-  for 1950-60, 1960-70, sod 1970-79.
Poruioninco  Oats (opr-arr  -rbam - Amoa-i geo-h rarre of urbo  ropa-                  frlfT
lain   o 0916, 1960-70, oud 1970-79.                                             CNUPaameONrCr   prtrea   ouato      aaaa   asrsrs   aa
Cral Nirih Peta (natthoso) - bonsa.Iline births Pr, tho.....d of mid-year                         gaae-o esta  sgtpmn;moue   Ieuaoe.bars   a
PoPulation; 1960, 199,aor10  loo.sliay  nhcls
fea.le eth hre' (pe-uouse)- Annua  deaths par thou...nda of mid-yae                           OOio tReIivers (Pere thusnd rIou,u-tnl-Alrsaorcaesfrrdi
Iaunoo; 1980, 1970, and l9Om lute..bodrast   eea   alrprerao   fpplto;seua   n
Irnanrsrrutroto  hte-Average oshar nf dauhea.          c    bmllhare uesd  aerr   Ao 1o1rrYa ao   tofpeaa..h. rsi ni-O  of. radio
her sonmaI rep,ro,dorton  priod if  h.  neius   rmo   g-prtu   o-st   u   oafc;dt  for marenr, p-sr  maI rtf srmePIleP
rIli   este; uuall  itn-Yeu  outrages ending ii 1960, 1970, sod 1919.                   mast                                         ..utr"tan oholiehed-lIfeo.dig
faul Iaruahceo.Anal(thboua.dal  -                       . Arum  number ofrep-re               Tf hRe-iv-o  (mr thoo-sd PoolRiol-I  rai-era ire bnoadaaat is
ofbrt-onrlatoes  -sl- sospuoma of   ros  feely P                 Fro.tog prga.geea   ulic pee chu.ndpo.i. ics  eu'de solceaed TV -scins-
Family Paonuog -Ussee (prreur ofmarried  omar) -  eerentag  of marred              cromutries ro  In yasr  char reiatentit  of DV sns cue i  effect
som   o  chll-eartg  ge  1.5- 4 yasral cho  bsirti-cor-ro  donior  tno                       _fcpoPrn Circula                h"'gtio     ..r...aodpa Iifa -.Sun  the doesai-
alIart  mmcO   entae   gep                                                             uaiao   datiyeoeo  ioesrsypr,deie   aearigadi-
FOOD  M  NUTRIIJON    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ pblicoro                - bots  petmuily to reodn ereel  we. Itis....aidesed
P0d- Ifa 000d FldN    t                                                                            noe  t he `daily"i tI ttPPesesao1 Iass Onr oSmea a oath.
re ndu-rimo c     - all foo  coadtia     rodntiooe-1dtlu       :deeed  ni feed aed              etchtts sol~dd duig the Year,  nirolding aldosiune n  del ve-ia ci-ea
is oo calendar  ear bueta.  iom-duii-aoo-o  pnimary goods (e.g~ .pegroarn  _b moile uite.
iostad e  sua) abloh ace edible aidcorlotrua (e.g. -offe. aod
tea ore omlded).  Aggregate peolurtiom- c -i raccoutoy is b-a Id 00AiBCS PORCf
moelomal onorog  Producr price  -itght; 196I1-h, 197 0, ond 1979 dots.                       Tonal LbOor Foros(te    osde) - RmooririLly aertos per-oms, incadiag
Pee rarita sapyly at calories (petreor of remuirensora)- Computed from          armed fIrcee sod  -ummyiryd hat ercIudiog hoaaeei-a, atdas, ate.,
ma-roy osuin lsorIof.doatIf nodauPPIite  availableII i-ountry per capion                      c...gpplrmoo   l   ga    afiuit   nnris   oset   r
peday   Available aPyeecoprise damoerl  prodacttu-, laucISe                                 o  coputable; l9fT 197  sal 1979 data.ri..d-ri    r
qaota,ao  chauge  id soc.-   Net supplies slde ooimaI fend, neds,                          PeaMl (erecetol-I9e-ao iho   oeI I           yrroa        ftta   aorfre
qaitousd to foal praceesiog, aol Iase O:ri  ditetibotiro. Irqtt                      so luuoren   LaborfotSoamigfostyhaugel
iendsareeatae   yPi   ae 0rhaonla                       de far normal u-ti-                fia,iog  a perretrag  of rts:- huhor forc; 1960. 1970 and 1979 dare.
niy an -buth co...ideriogtviumna  t                         bpaaur,  oy aeihta. age          dur         .. forernt) - Labor force in etuing, c  -arutir..,ofrtr
uedea  detihaio  o  ypulrio.an  alocug10cereo  foanaeatao  eoetid ry  aeturen sodto  am  erceota   I of                       . ruallbee foote; 1900,
hoshldlvle16-5  1970,isod 1977tats                                                             1970 tad 1979daa
ne apy1 of,fod pee lay.Nt supply of ford Ia dafioed usshne   Osdci                                       .ttat   e   opro   ettl.ol,sdfml  lbrfrea
eloao   f60 orae-f rte   rotnPer daymd 2  trinof aualod16,1970, aol 1979 dan.Taaaebes   rlDsprtrpte    ae
pulse p         thsie  of thih   .10    m  shud hbitslprtl.7  Theseeal                        elcigg-asrouao he-9p0puTa;ion, ande lnTong p r..na itree. rAe
arIa are beat oboe ohoat of ~~75 gramsof I toa  prtS   n   )gaso                       feeltmteoo   rmrtonlaocs
animalpeeo as  n  vergPfarsh                        ..r . pepsd by PAO in rho Third        icroi Seauec   taotim    oO   at poyslaniunuIndar 10 and 65 aed a..e
WoldPodSrvy  1961-65, 1970 and 197 dar..n    b   oa  l rfre
tie   ee .omasad po1le.ssI in - gooper lay; 1961-65, 17saifdt.                     INltE     h DS It-  l -g
Chid  iss 14)ffrt _lr (bn   p_m thaunseld  - Aooaa, learha Per tho..aa.d u                  sreaeo   eot loie(ohi   oSadhid                              erdb   ihs
eggg,roup 1-4 years ,t emhoild,ee  in ihin age group  fo r mon  d-neloplg roan-                 S pcentaor- Pruches 10        bt prr dr p -.he end keionde, sad. po detbyiOpoet
trim   darn derined fIn life rahlra; 1960, 1970nsd 1979 dora.                                  ofPhouesbls. h.t2pe-t                  -t0p-nt
Lift tapertnory or BIrth (years-Ave rtge ...ehr of years of life rea_iog                     PMaL Tolim eamARGTGRU S   aerr   peoti   aarso   ort   ees
at birth; 1960, 190a117   aa                                                                     e  sol   eirrotdot)Ooadehacuim
Intati  ortaliy hate  per thusuell- Ar-..I deaths uf tof-t oncuder nnyser            -rimrd Ahsogboit- P-nedt  itorl.ve  -0tpe   aies    obu adeuo
o~e frrr houuudlirehOc-s.Abharluepoar P                                                                      rom   loelItthr   om  lee   amsciha  tia
ducesetolof Wuerloecet  ofI    r        lylaithe-ccrl bl oeo   ad.url. t u-                   utiti..aly adequate dint plus esetIal non-food reaqar-mote is min
he ho pepl  trrh.    ea,ouerl   uheasiherast  -tafa                          -d             otffrdabie.
tfaer-piy(oeue  tr--olsu face oroh         r  tianedbu  uooaosmgard                  limted Rleaiv- Footery Irrnem Lvel. (79US             aio     uhnalma 
caterior  as thatp tuprtcehooie,augisoeaiayaieasNtlrltv roentcoaas   soe-third of  -varge perra pies
pecuige tf h Ior.a.etrive. pryaltihs..0 louterheooneuah. puli                         permoa  Ism   of sh. rountry.  irbar 1-1s is derived from  the  -ar1
fsidaid or  beinglpos  locte      ler mar  than 209 metersfro.a. ras m-1    be               leve      h      _i td tet for higher tes t of Iivieg ii arbr sies..
rsM eoabl Pears mould imly tha   hebh-seife or sembaca c           . thabosahld           taia         - ouaion SaIlem aeour A   Povert  D        Lm a levl   --treo) - arba
dmobot. irsen    diusproprirn-t  peer of the day Or fetohing the                          moe.         P           P
Nu-nhert",P,,rcalurno    nlenralt lerenedhynaecats dispo.a.eI
psN,  tae o'f the ir reeypoclvnpy-       atr..rro-e t.disp...l may imelude
ths  oleo   end disposal, cith or mithout itautreo,r, of            . huanernr
ao   ni-otrh  caterhuro  syatms or otuse. of pit prtir-  end aimi                                                            crbc  n   oilDaaSns
aniusta yatre                                                                                                                fco -no      c culyd Sard. Drjet iDOaOraer
PouainPee Phyatiio - Pupulution divlIded by nub. er  f Pearticing phyti-                                                                          Y 1901
oasqealifted tram a medical erh-o  at Inoiveeslo  letel.
Poaa itameir ePrsn-PFuPuIati-o diviadd by rumber ut pyrutctfot
male sod femle grad-    --aouem   prertiral  -uaa  and .1 tagentuo-en..



- 24 -
2 4  -                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 1
Page f   5
GUYANA:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Average Annual                          As Percent
Constant 1977 US$ Millions                                         Growth Rate                             of GDP
1976     1977     1978     1979      1980                                 1976-1980                            1976-1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product                   461.7   441.0   433.4   430.9   438.7                                       -1.3                                    100.0
Gains From Terms of Trade                 -4.5       -     -40.0   -44.2   -36.3                                                                              -5.7
Gross Domestic Income                    457.2   441.0   393.4   386.7   402.3                                       -3.3                                     94.3
Imports (including NFS)                  437.7   347.5   262.4   267.5   284.3                                      -11.4                                     72.5
Exports (import capacity)                319.5   275.5   262.5   227.3   232.1                                       -B84                                     59.7
Consumption                              397.9   384.8   306.0   303.8   329.9                                       -4.8                                     78.1
Investment                               177.5   128.2    87.2   123.0   124.7                                       -9,4                                     29.0
Domestic Savings                          59.3    56.2    87.3    82.9    72.5                                         5,2                                    16.2
National Savings                          31.1    33.0    63.6    61.7    46.2                                                                                10.7
Average Annual                           As Percent of
Value Added by Sector                                                                       Growth Rate 1976-80                         GDPf:_976-80
Agriculture                               86.7    82.3    89.8    83.5    83.9                    -0.8                                    21.5
Mining                                    65.5    64.3    58.8    49.8    54.9                    -4.5                                    14.8
Industry                                  52.2    48.2    49.4    51.4    50.6                    -0,8                                    12.7
Construction                              35.7    30.2    25.9    26.7    27.5                    -6.7                                     7.4
Services                                 183.1   174.5   166.3   169.4   171.8                    -1.6                                    43.6
GDP at Factor Cost                     423.2   399.5   390.2   380.8   388.7                   -2.1                                    100.0.
Public Sector Finances                              Current US$ Million                                            Public Sector Investment Program
Central Government Current Revenues 152.8   138.2   143.3   154.9   178.0                                               (As Percent of Tot-l)
Central Government Current                                                                                     Actual    Estimate          Projected
Expenditures                           179.3   162.7   166.3   196.8   240.8                                   1980       1981        1982       1983
Central Government Current Surplus  -26.5   -24.5   -23.0   -41.9   -62.8
Agriculture               35.1        38.2       49.2        33.0
Public Sector Savings                             -12.0    21.9    19.6          1.2  Mining                     31.0        20.7       19.6        18.4
Public Sector Capital Expenditure                                                     Power                       1.7        11.8        7.3         9.5
Other                     32.2        29.3        23.9       39.1
Total                  100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
Consumer Price Index (1970-100)              161.7   179.1   214.0   247.4   282.2
1/ Includes sugar and rice milling, electricity, gas, water



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(0SS million)
Actual                   Estimate   Projections
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981            1982
Balance of Payments
Exports of Goods and NFS                        294.3   275.4   313.7   309.8   403.1   400              460
Imports of Goods and NFS                        403.1   347.4   313.6   364.6   493.7   550              485
Resource Balance                            -108.8   -72.0       0.1   -54.8   -90.6  -150            -25
Net Transfers and Factor Services               -28.4   -25.5   -29.7   -28.3   -41.0   -50              -50
Current Account Balance                           -137.2   -97.5   -29.6   -83.1  -131.6  -200              -75
Net Public Disbursements                         88.7    34.9    40.1    27.8    32.9   125               75
Gross Disbursements                           107.5    59.3    98.7   133.5   108.6   200              150
Amortization                                  -18.8   -24.4   -58.6  -105.7   -75.7   -75              -75
Other Capital                                   -43.2      0.5      9.6     2.2    11.4       -            -
Capital Account Balance                             45.5    35.4    49.7    30.0    44.3   125               75
Overall Balance                                     91.7   -62.1    20.1   -53.1   -87.3   -75               _
Change in Net Reserves
IMF Drawings (net)                                -        -      17.5    12.0    30.0    20
Change in Commercial Arrears                      -       32.5   -10.4      4.8      2.4
Change in Other Short-Term Liabilities           14.1   -16.0    20.7    -0.5    44.0
Gross International Reserves at Year-End            47.1    34.0    71.5    39.5    31.0
Actual
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Gross Disbursements of Public and
Publicly Guaranteed M&LT Loans                      94.6    70.0    45.5    56.5    96.7   93.7
IBRD/IDA                                          5.8      3.9     3.5      8.7    16.0    4.4
Other Multilateral                                -        -        2.9      5.1    13.2   29.3
Bilateral                                        43.6    26.7    17.1    25.1    24.1   13.4
Other                                            45.2    39.4    22.0    17.5    43.4   46.6
Total Public and Publicly Guaranteed
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                     292.3   363.3   398.5   428.4   468.7  522.5
IBRD                                             15.4    18.6    20.1    25.3    34.4   35.9
IDA                                               4.6      5.1     6.7      9.6    16.0   18.1
Other Multilateral and Bilateral                135.9   153.7   173.0   199.5   229.7  257.6
Other                                           136.4   185.9   198.7   193.9   188.5  210.9
Undisbursed                                        106.8    95.8    82.8   224.4   253.2  198.6
Debt Service
Total Debt Service Payments                      16.1    32.9    32.7    50.0    90.5    70.0
Interest                                       (9.6)  (19.5)  (15.1)  (17.2)  (24.6)  (25.5)
Payments as % of Exports & NFS                    4.3    11.2    11.9    15.9    29.2    17.4
Payments as Z of GDP                              3.4      7.4      7.5    10.1    17.4    11.8
Memorandum Items
IBRD DOD/Total DOD (%)                            5.3      5.1      5.1      5.9     7.4      6.9
IBRD/IDA Disbursements/Total Gross
Disbursements (%)                               6^2      5.6      8.2    17.9    16.7       4.8
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service              7.1      4.0      6.4      4.8     3.1      5.4
January 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GRCOJP OPERATICNS IN GUYANA
A.    State of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1981)
US$ Million -------
Loan or                                                     Amount (Less Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower           Purpose             Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and five credits fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765 875 and 1622, and
Credits 139, 221, 301, 544, and 853)                        24.9     18.4
1016         1974    Guyana    Tapakuma Irrigation          12.9                 0.1
1106         1975    Guyana    Education II                  8.0                 7.0
820         1978    Guyana    Black Bush Irrigation                 10.0        9.6
1623         1978    Guyana    Forestry                     10.0                 6.4
1906         1980    Guyana    Technical Assistance
for Power                  8.0                 7.5
1948/1098 a/ 1981    Guyana    Structural Adjustment Ln- 14.0             a/   14.0 -/
1949         1981    Guyana    Second Technical
Assistance                 1.5                 1.3
Total (net of cancellations)             79.3     28.4 a/   35.7 a/
of which has been repaid                  4.3      0.1
Total now outstanding                    75.0     28.3 a/
Amount sold                   0.8
of which has been repaid      0.8
Total now held by Bank
and IDA b/                             75.0     28.3 a/
Total undisbursed                        36.3      9.6 a/   45.9 a/
a/ Cr. 1098 is for an amount of SDR 6.3 million, which is currently equivalent to
US$7.1 million; of this amount US$2.7 million remains undisbursed.
b/ Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
B.    Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1981)
Investment  Fiscal              Type of                         Total Held        Total
Number     Year    Obligor  Business  Equity  Loan  Total   ''by-IFC          Undisbursed
437 GUA     1979   Industrial Gas           -      2.0   2.0       2.0              0
Domestic    Domestic
and
Electrical
Appliances
Ltd. (IDEAL)



- 27 -                ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
C.     Projects in Execution /1
Ln. No. 1016   Tapakuma Irrigation Project:  US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25, 1974
Effective Date: May 27, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is about 36 months behind schedule due to delays in
contracting consultant services, scarcity of local professional staff and
counterpart funds and the need for additional studies. Civil works for the
Tapakuma and Somerset-Berks irrigation and drainage works and roads are about
90% completed, and will be finished by November 1981. This contract covers
about 80% of the project area. The civil works contract for the remaining of
the area is proceeding satisfactorily. Cost of civil works for the project
has increased about 190% over the appraisal estimate, mainly due to price
increases and project implementation delays. With the assistance of the Bank,
additional external financing to meet substantially the cost overrun obtained
from the OPEC Fund (US$4.0 million), CDB (US$4.0 million) and UKODM (US$5.7
million). The applied research and extension services provided by the project
contributed to yield improvements which were the highest in the country. The
average yield in the project area in Spring 1981 was 4 tons/ha. 30% above the
national average. A program for extension training is helping to resolve the
scarcity of local agricultural staff, as well as serve as a model for extension
activities throughout the country.
Ln. No. 1106   Second Education Project:  US$12.0 million on May 9, 1975
Cr. No.  544   Effective Date:  July 8, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Execution of the project is about 42 months behind schedule due to delays
in fulfilling the effectiveness conditions, subsequent delays in the award of
contracts for civil works items and a shortage of local currency resources. The
manpower study has been completed and the Caribbean Animal Technical Training
Center is under operation. Construction of the first phase of the project,
which consits of 11 institutions, is under way.
Cr. No.  820   Black Bush Irrigation Project:  US$10.0 Million of
December 4, 1978
Effective Date: April 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project, which is cofinanced by IFAD, USAID and IDB is about 24
months behind the schedule mainly because of delays in securing the financial
package for the project and, therefore, the Government's inability to meet all
conditions for effectiveness. Final designs and tender documents for the pumping
stations and documents for IDA/IFAD financed civil works would be available only
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and
weaknesses of project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
by mid 1982. A substantial cost overrun is expected due to price increases since
appraisal of the project in 1977 and a review of the project scope may become
necessary when the final design for the major civil works are ready.
Ln. No. 1623   Upper Demerara Forestry Project:  US$10.0 Million of
December 4, 1978
Effective Date: May 31, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project, which is cofinanced by EDF, EIB, IDB and IBRD, is about
20 months behind schedule. The immediate purchase portion of the power plant
equipment has been installed. Procurement of total logging and transport
equipment, sawmill and power plant is practically concluded. The main project
access road financed by the Caribbean Development Bank has been completed.
Construction of housing for the initial phase has also been completed and a
contract for construction of sawmill and basic infrastructure for township
has been awarded. The scarcity of local managerial staff may pose problems
for the execution of the project. As a substantial cost overrun on the
project appears likely, discussions are now underway to review the scope of
project works.
Ln. 1906        Technical Assistance for Power Development:  US$8.0 Million of
November 18, 1980
Effective Date: January 30, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This project is about 13 months behind schedule due to delays in contracting
consultant services. The findings of the consultants studying the small hydro-
power sites (i.e.less than 50MW) are expected to be available by February 1982.
Results of the optimization study involving the larger projects are expected by
December 1982. While an operations engineer has been retained to strengthen -
the management of GEC, negotiations are yet to be completed for obtaining the
services of several other experts.
Ln. 1948        Structural Adjustment:  US$14 Million Loan and
and Cr. 1098   SDR 6.3 Million Credit of February 17, 1981
Effective Date: March 30, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
While various measures such as establishment of an export developmnet
fund and adjustment of prices and tariffs and monitoring of the investment program
have been taken, actions for increased resource mobilization and launching of
a long term export action program are behind schedule. Discussions are under way
between the Government and the Bank on actions which are still outstanding before
the release of the second tranche can be made.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Ln. 1949       Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$1.5 Million of
February 17, 1981
Effective Date: March 16, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on this project has been slow, except for the hiring of
consultants for the establishment and operation of the Export Development Fund.
Recently an expert on the monitoring system for execution of the public sector
investment program was retained. Proposals for carrying out export market
studies are under consideration and are expected to be approved by early 1982.
Due to uncertainties regarding the location of responsibility for industrial
policy making, the appointment of an industrial policy adviser has been delayed.



- 30 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUYANA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification:                 Based  on  report of recon-
naissance mission of Decem-
ber 1979 project was identi-
fied in September 1980.
(b)  Initial request for Bank
financing:                             September 1980
(c)  Project appraisal                      March 1981
(d)  Negotiations completed:                 December 1981
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:            May 1982
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions:    None
III. Special Conditions:
The Government agreed that:
(i)    As a condition of effectiveness, MEM would establish a Petro-
leum Unit with the necessary counterpart personnel to the for-
eign consultants to execute the project (paragraph 63).
(ii)   Not later than 60 days after completion of the legal consul-
tant's review of the petroleum legislation and model con-
tracts, the Government would send the conclusions of the
review to the Association for comments (paragraph 64).
(iii)  The decision on establishment of a state petroleum corporation
as well as the timing, staffing and scope of its activities,
would be reviewed by the Government with the Association
(paragraph 64).
(iv)   Before proceeding with drilling  services for the heavy oil
evaluation and as a condition of disbursement of the funds
allocated to this component, the Government would agree with



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
the Association on a detailed proposal for execution, sources
of manpower, drilling equipment, detailed information on
access to the site, and a timetable for execution (paragraphs
64 and 67).
(v)    The proceeds of the sales of geophysical data and consultants'
reports would be placed in a special account and used exclu-
sively for energy sector surveys and studies (paragraph 68).



- 32 -                   Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
GUYANA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Tentative Schedule of Implementation
Exploration Promotion
Employment of consultants                                 May 1982
Retrieval and compilation of data                         June 1982
Initiation of staff training                             July-September 1982
Interpretation of geophysical data                       July 1982 - January 1983
Completion of petroleum legislation review and
preparation of draft model agreements                  December 1982
Completion of well data analysis                         December 1982
Completion of geological studies                         March 1983
Government approval of petroleum law                      June 1983
First round of acreage bidding (opens)                    September 1983
Exploration bidding (closes)                              November 1983
Signature of new agreements with oil companies           January 1984
Completion of staff training                              June 1985
Heavy Oil Evaluation
Employment of survey and heavy oil consultants           May 1982
Survey of area (gravity and magnetic)                     June-July 1982
Completion of gravity and magnetic survey                 August 1982
Review of survey findings and decision on
drilling                                                December 1982
Employment of drilling contractor                         December 1982
Start of drilling                                         March 1983
Completion of evaluation report on heavy
oil potential                                           December 1983



IBRD 16102R
-E  i  oin   G 5DECEMBER 1981
V E N E Z U E L A rf bMaAa\>j                                                                                                                           S
8-A =  I ",z- \ - S  SR, / S-.0                 -                              (- --N - - - -
2- -28on    -         7Z5b5i 5t5N           N     /
Jhrity                      L5lr e             N D_____                      /                -
CSON! SE AUtI.         N      ./       /
F  _-                    4               C                              \    _\-'-                                                   __~~~~~~  - 
M.Wk         ZN                                         Z
.,.---.    0Or~0 fown                                                              - - - --  - -- -
A Amterdam
S2HELL     HC       ~     TC61                           A8 200-
6-  3,269,5                                               TAM$0CDJO C lR'
SHELL7          'I  -     N.ic eie                                       rmrb
-GUYANA
j  E  ./  I-  'PETROLEUM CONTRACT AREAS
AND EXPLORATION WELLS
0yj      Areas of interest for heavy
B    R   A    z    I   L                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oil explorcation
4- B AII     Area of heavy oil exploroation
Goodtfo~~~~~e5~~                                   L......J~~on Suriname
Coontract areas
-    Geological basement
eo  Exploration wells,depth in feet
- a7Jj   Surfaced roads
Thss-mp h. b-,Eenp-eae by tt    [          z           
Wtrld B-knt s.ff -1-f?etc0usy (or  >                      f                             8s       <                    3       Rivers
th_,e ,. repon to wh-h It /t-lch0d                                                         )     ><                loo0----Depth contours in meters
The d___/nsi_n -sd snd.te                                                                 r
bound. -1 -ply, - lhowno P." f             Sh~                                                                              National capitals
Wttfd B-nk thd i~pltt - th' f tt. Itny   \.   (                                  J         )          >            ._._. International boundaries
VENEZUELA ,5AA<<w-- 
KILOMETERS 0      40      80      120      160
MILES 0     20    40    60    8O    lo0
BRAZIL               2)



