CREDIT NUMBER 1208 GUA
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1208 GUA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    z            ,I    , 1982, between GUYANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the term "Petroleum Unit" means the petroleum unit
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be Amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and t,e Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and drilling services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1992, and end;,ng Janu-
ary 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry
of Energy and Mines or through such other agency as the Borrower
with the prior agreement of the Association shall determine,
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall establish in the Ministry of Energy
and Mines, in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory
to the Association, the petroleum unit referred to in Part A (3)
(a) of the Project and, until the Project is completed, shall not
make any changes in the form, functions and staffing of the
Petroleum Unit without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ petroleum
exploration, management and accounting (onsultants and legal
advisors whose qualifications, experience aud terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association; and such
employment to be made in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare the terms of reference of the
consultants and advisors mentioned in paragraph (a) hereof in
consultation with the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall assign to the Petroleum Unit local
counterpart staff who will be provided on-the-job training by the
consultants mentioned in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Mines
shall send to the Association for review and comments the recom-
mendations of the legal advisors regarding the draft petroleum
exploration and production laws and regulations no later than 60
days after receipt of such recommendations from the advisors
and in any case before such draft laws and regulations are
formally presented by the Ministry of Energy and Mines for
approval by the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Association before
making any final decision on the establishment of a state-owned
petroleum corporation or entity including the timing, staffing,
and scope of activities of such corporation or entity.
Section 3.04. Before carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall with the assistance of the consultants to be
employed under Section 3.02 hereof prepare, and provide the
Association with, for its approval, proposals for executing
surveys under Part B of the Project and thereafter a timetable


﻿and detailed proposals for the drilling under Part B of the
Project which shall clearly identify the number, location and
depth of the proposed wells, implementation arrangements, cost
estimates and such other information as the Association may rea-
sonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Mines
shall no later than June 30, 1983 designate, and furnish the
Association for its review and comments with the list of, candi-
dates proposed for training included in the Project and a de-
tailed description of such training.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported good to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause the Petroleum Unit
to prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes to maintain a pricing
policy for petroleum products that will be consistent with the
full cost of importation and the efficient use of such products.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
cause the Ministry of Energy and Mines to maintain or cause to
be maintained a special account into which shall be paid the
proceeds of sales of geophysical data and reports produced under
the Project, said proceeds of sales to be used exclusively to
finance expenditures for oil exploration related activities of the
Petroleum Unit.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts relating to
the Project, including the special account referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-6-
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said special accounts, records and
expenditure and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry of Energy
and Mines to send to the Association quarterly and annual reports
on the progress of the Project in a form satisfactory to the
Association, including summaries of expenditures and the use of
funds under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Petroleum Unit has been established
in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) hereof.
Section 5.02. The date                      , 1983 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section. 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions;


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:
MINFIN
Georgetown
Guyana
For the Associationi
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives tbereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as -f the day and year
first above written.
GUYANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultants                                   100% of foreign
services under:                              expenditures
(a) Part A of                  650,000
the Project
(b) Part B of                   75,000
the Project
(2) Legal advisory                  130,000       100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(3) Vehicles, office                160,000       100% of foreign
and laboratory                               expenditures
equipment
(4) Training                        170,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Drilling services               285,000       85%
(4) Unallocated                     230,000
TOTAL         1,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿-9-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (5) until the Association
has approved the time table and detailed proposals required under
Section 3.04 hereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿- 10 -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
.SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is designed to assist the Borrower's
petroleum exploration promotion program consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Petroleum Exploration Promotion
(1) (a) Collection, compilation, organization and inter-
pretation of existing geological and geophysical
data;
(b) Preparation of presentation documents on areas to
be offered for exploration to foreign companies.
(c) Provision to oil companies of information on
Guyana's petroleum potential.
(d) Monitoring of the activities of oil companies
operating in Guyana.
(e) Integration of data provided by such operating
companies in the Ministry of Energy and Mines'
interpretation of Guyana's basins.
(2) (a) Revision of the Borrower's Petroleum Act and
regulations and preparation of petroleum explora-
tion and production contracts.
(b) Negotiation of petroleum exploration and production
contracts.
(3) (a) Establishment of a petroleum unit to be responsible
for overseeing petroleum exploration and develop-
ment.
(b) Establishment within the Petroleum Unit of a
petroleum accounting and management system and
procedures.
(4) Training of Guyanese technical staff in petroleum
exploration techniques, laboratory procedures and related activi-
ties including overseas and on the job training; and university


﻿- 12 -
training in petroleum geology and geophysics for staff members of
the Petroleum Unit.
(5) Acquisition and purchase for the Petroleum Unit of
vehicles, office and laboratory equipment and materials, including
storage cabinets for geologic and geophysical data; technical
books, and special copying machines for logs and profiles.
Part B:   Evaluation of Heavy Oil Potential
Gravity and magnetic surveys in the coastal areas southeast
of Georgetown to obtain information concerning hydrocarbon
potential of the area and, on the basis of the surveys' findings,
drilling of appropriate exploration wells as determined by the
Borrower and the Association; and evaluation of sample cuttings
for oil shows.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Limited International Tendering
Vehicles, equipment and other goods required for the Project
shall be procured by limited international tendering involving
the solicitation of at least three quotations from suppliers.
B.   Local Competitive Bidding
Drilling services under Part B of the Project shall be pro-
cured under contracts awarded after competitive bidding based on
local advertising in accordance with local procurement procedures.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for drilling services:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eval-
uation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the procedures set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" or this Schedule,. promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-14 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to the items procured by limited international
tendering, the Borrower shall furnish the Association for its
comments before the execution of the contracts relating thereto
with (A) a detailed list of such items and of the names of the
suppliers from which quotations have been solicited; and (B)
a detailed report on the evaluation of the quotations received
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a. contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    X    ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


