Document of                                       n    I
The World Bank                      FILE CurI
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RETIJI TO L             CoReport No. P-2661-NI
'INFOBMAInGi  GEITER
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 29, 1979                             r
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be usd by recipients only in the performance of
their offeia dutife. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cordoba (t)
US$1           =  0 10
I              =  US$.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADP         -  Agricultural Development Program
AGROINRA    -  Agroindustrial Division of INRA
BAMER       -  Bank of America
BANIC       -  Bank of Nicaragua
BDN         -  Development Bank of Nicaragua
BNN         -  National Bank of Nicaragua
CNA         -  National Committee for Crops and Livestock
DIPSA       -  Directorate for Agricultural Sector Planning
FED         -  Special Development Fund
FIR         -  International Fund for Reconstruction
FRN         -  Trust for National Reconstruction
IAN         -  National Agrarian Institute
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDP         -  Industrial Development Program
IFAD        -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
INCAFE      -  Nicaragua Coffee Enterprise
INFONAC     -  National Development Institution
INRA        -  Nicaraguan Agrarian Reform Institute
INTA        -  Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology
INVIERNO    -  Institute of National Rural Development
MIDA        -  Ministry of Agriculture and Development
SSDP        -  Small-Scale Enterprise Development
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Nicaragua
Executing Agency:           Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED)
Amounts:                    Loan:   US$20 million
Credit: US$10 million
Terms:                      Loan:   20 years, including 5 years grace with
an interest rate of 7.95 percent per
annum
Credit: Standard
The Agricultural Component
Relending Terms:            The Republic of Nicaragua would channel the proceeds
of the Bank loan/credit to the Banco de Desarrollo
de Nicaragua (BDN) acting for the Fondo Especial
de Desarrollo (FED); the term, grace period and
interest rate to the FED would be the same as on
the Bank loan to the Government, except that the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
US$14.5 million of the loan/credit would be redis-
counted by FED through participating institutions
at interest rates ranging from 7 percent to 11
percent per annum. The participating institutions
in turn would onlend to project beneficiaries at
interest rates ranging from 10 percent to 14 percent
per annum. Subloans would be made for terms of up
to one and one-half years for short-term and up to
five years for medium-term loans; terms for long-
term lending would be up to nine years, including
not more than four years of grace.
Project Description:        The Agricultural Component would provide (i) re-
sources through participating institutions to
reactivate production of crops and livestock, and
(ii) technical assistance to participating insti-
tutions. There would be three principal sub-
components:
(a)  Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit Line
(US$7 million), to provide short- and
medium-term credit for medium scale private
farms and for the crop and livestock
activities of State controlled farms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
(b)   FED Development Credit Line (US$7.5 mil-
lion), to provide long-term-financing
for the resumption of the coffee renova-
tion program.
(c)   Technical Assistance (US$0.5 million),
to finance about 14 man/months of
services, vehicles and equipment, and
a livestock survey.
The principal risk to successful implementa-
tion of the agricultural component arises from
proposed lending to restructured farm enter-
prises. The Government recognizes the impor-
tance of these enterprises to the economy and
is taking steps to assure a smooth transition
to state ownership. Except for replacement of
the very top management, the staff and organi-
zation of these enterprises remain unchanged.
The fact that Government policies are still
being formulated on important agricultural
issues (such as agrarian reform) could affect
the demand for long-term credit; however, these
risks have been taken into account by including
in the project long-term lending.only for an
on-going coffee renovation program, dealing
with a commodity of high Government priority
and involving small- and medium-scale producers
who will be completing investment plans already
underway.
Estimated Costs:                                     (US$ million)
Local       Foreign        Total
On-farm Investments                11.70         6.40          18.10
Technical Assistance
Consultants                      0.10          -            0.10
Vehicles and Equipment           0.20         0.05           0.25
Livestock Survey                 0.20         0.20           0.40
Total Project Cost                 12.20         6.65          18.85



- tiit -
Financing Plan:                                     (US$ million)
Participating
Govern-     Institutions
IBRD/IDA  ment    and/or Sub-borrower  Total
On-farm Investments       14.50    -              3.60           18.10
Technical Assistance
Consultants              0.10    -               -              0.10
Vehicles and Equipment  0.20    -               0.05            0.25
Livestock Survey         0.20   0.20             -              0.40
Total Costs          15.00   0.20            3.65           18.85
Estimated Disbursements:                           (US$ million)
Jan/June 1980   July/Dec 1980   Jan/June 1981
Semi-Annual:                   7.0             5.0              3.0
Cumulative:                    7.0            12.0             15.0
The Industrial Component
Relending Terms:             The Republic of Nicaragua would channel the pro-
ceeds of the Bank loan/credit through the Banco
de Desarrollo de Nicaragua (BDN) acting for the
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED); the term,
grace period and interest rate to the FED would be
the same as on the Bank loan to the Government,
except that the Government would bear the exchange
risk. The loan/credit funds would be rediscounted
by FED through participating institutions at
interest rates ranging from 9 percent to 12 percent.
The participating institution in turn would onlend
to project beneficiaries at an interest rate of 15
percent. Sub-loan terms would be up to 5 years
for the financing of current production and up
to 15 years, including up to 3 years of grace,
for the financing of repair or replacement of
fixed installations.
Project Description:         The project would assist the Government in its
efforts to assist viable industrial enterprises
to regain prewar levels of industrial output,
exports and employment. This component would also
be administered by the FED which would channel
funds through participating intermediaries to
industrial enterprises in order to finance the
cost of goods and services for:



- iv -
(a)  current production (excluding the construc-
tion industry and inputs related to the
production of goods for which sales would be
financed by the agricultural component); and
(b) the repair or replacement of fixed installa-
tions.
There are special risks associated with lending to
industry which has been affected by civil war and
is now undergoing substantial restructuring. The
risks are minimized by lending through an expe-
rienced institution (FED) to enterprises considered
capable of rapid resumption of normal production
and which have demonstrated a history of successful
operations.
Estimated Costs:                                          (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Current Production    4.5        -12'.1        16.6
Fixed Installations   0.5           1.7         2.2
5.0        13.8        18.8
Financing Plan:                                              (US$ million)
Participating
Institutions
and/or
IBRD/IDA  Sub-borrower   Total
Current production    13.3          3.3          16.6
Fixed Installations    1.7          0.5           2.2
15.0        3.8          18.8
Estimated Disbursements:                                  (US$ million)
Jan/June   July/Dec   Jan/June
1980       1980        1981
Semi-annual:         1.5         8.0         5.5
Cumulative:          1.5         9.5        15.0
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Appraisal Report:            None.  This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA FOR AN AGRICULTURAL
AND INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$20.0 million and a proposed credit for the equivalent
of US$10.0 million to the Republic of Nicaragua for an agricultural and indus-
trial rehabilitation project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, includ-
ing a grace period of five years with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
The development credit would be on standard IDA terms. The grant element
to the Republic of Nicaragua in the loan and credit is 47.3 percent. The
loan and credit would be channelled through the Banco de Desarrollo de Nicaragua
(BDN) acting for the Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (FED). US$29.5 million of
the proceeds of the loan and credit would be relent through financial inter-
mediaries to agricultural enterprises for up to 8 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 10-14 percent per annum, and to industrial enterprises
for up to 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 15 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        After years of sporadic guerrilla activity and almost a year of
intermittent but violent insurrection, the Government of Nicaragua was replaced
in July 1979 by revolutionary forces led by the Sandinista Liberation Front.
A 5-person Junta of National Reconstruction was immediately established, an
agreed program of policy goals announced, and order quickly restored. In res-
ponse to requests for assistance a Bank mission visited Nicaragua in September
to review the new situation and consider new lending of an emergency nature
that would assist the recovery effort. The economic section of this report
reflects the mission's analysis.
3.        During the Revolution an estimated 35,000 persons lost their lives.
The main battlefields were Nicaragua's towns, and many civilians were killed
in the intense battles during September 1978 and May-July 1979. Damage to
physical structures and equipment has been estimated at US$185 million. While
an additional US$250 million in inventories were stolen, burned, or otherwise
lost to the original owners, all but US$60 million was probably used or sold
by the new owners, thus reducing the total physical loss to the economy to
about US$245 million, lower in cost than the Managua earthquake of 1972 but
over one tenth of 1978 GDP.
1/   This section is identical to the section on the economy in the President's
Report on the Urban Reconstruction project (P-2662-NI) dated November 29,
1979.



- 2 -
WAR DAMAGE
(US$ Million)
Physical
Structures   Equipment    Stocks
Industry                  15.0          35.0        60.0
Commerce                  18.0          22.0       160.0
Agriculture                 3.6           1.8       28.0
Infrastructure            60.5          24.7         1.0
Other                      --            4.0         1.0
Total                  97.1          87.5       250.0
The towns of Esteli, Leon, Masaya, and Matagalpa were particularly hard-hit;
Esteli lost an estimated one third of its downtown housing units.  National
Guard posts, often located in urban centers, were the focus of much of the
fighting; this led to destruction of many nearby shops, restaurants, houses,
and othier service establishments.  Most of the inventory losses stemmed from
looting. As all semblance of order ended mobs looted stores and industries
of massive amounta of finished goods, raw materials, and equipment. The
planting of some key crops was also deferred, and this has adversely affected
rural incomes, production and exports.
4.        The effect of this wartime destruction is reflected throughout the
economy. The sacking of shops and stores reduced many commercial firms to
insolvency; some damaged, looted, or burned industrial establishments were
also financially affected. More important in financial terms, however, was
the capital flight from Nicaragua. As noted above most of the looted goods
remained within the economy. During 1978 and 1979, however, massive capital
flight of up to US$500 million occurred, and many firms are illiquid because
of it. These insolvencies in turn led to massive loan defaults and the
insolvency of domestic commercial banks. Taxes and utility bills were not
paid in June and July; neither was the Government's civilian work force. The
Central Bank had only US$3.5 million in gross foreign exchange on July 19;
net foreign reserves were negative by US$215 million; and most external debt
service had been in arrears since January.
5.        The immediate consequences of this physical and financial destruc-
tion are quite severe. Nicaragua's real GDP dropped 8 percent in 1978; during
1979 it may drop more than 26 percent. Even if there is an expected recovery
of 18 percent in 1980, the foregone income (compared to a conservative growth
rate of 4 percent) is well over US$1 billion for the years 1978-80. While all
sectors of the economy were affected, industry, transport and commerce dropped
most as the physical damage was also accompanied by severe import constraints
and domestic trade and communications bottlenecks. Agriculture suffered less,
but the 1979 cotton crop was ruined and the rice crop adversely affected as
most fighting occurred during key planting times. Livestock inventories, par-
ticularly chickens and cattle, were depleted. It is estimated that Nicaragua's
per capita GNP in 1979 will fall to US$570 (US$1978, Atlas basis). Voluntary
guard duty and clean-up campaigns have absorbed some of the potential
unemployed, but the actual unemployed are still probably at least one quarter
of the urban work force.



6.        Faced with this situation the new Government of National Reconstruc-
tion has undertaken action on a variety of fronts. It issued a policy state-
ment shortly before it took power that has served as its guide so far. The
Government has decided on a mixed economy with government, private, and joint
government-private sectors in as yet undefined areas. It gives high priority
to immediate recovery efforts, dividing them into two phases, an emergency
program and an immediate recovery plan. The emergency program consists of
food and medical distribution, recovery of public services and clearing of
bombed neighborhoods. The recovery plan stresses output and employment expan-
sion; reorganization of the balance of payments, debt, and public finances;
and complementary monetary policies. A longer-term plan for reconstruction
and socio-economic development is being prepared.
7.        The emergency program has been completed efficiently and rapidly.
Immediately after the victory, most municipal residents began the cleanup
process. Within a month streets and sidewalks were cleared of rubble and
barricades, the wounded were hospitalized, power, water, and telephones were
operating, and the normal processes of Government had been restored. Given the
lack of.foreign exchange and fiscal resources, most labor was voluntary, with
neighborhood commmittees organizing the participants. While these committees
have been extremely effective in clearing streets and repairing some partially
damaged houses, the reconstruction of more heavily damaged homes, industries,
shops, and public buildings will take considerably more time and resources.
The rebuilding of commercial inventories, re-equipping and reconstruction of
industries will require substantial foreign exchange.
8.        One of the first acts of the new Government was to confiscate the
assets of the family of ex-President Somoza and his most immediate associates
as well as to nationalize the insolvent banking system 1/. As a result, the
State now owns about one third of the nation's crop land, which in the past
produced large amounts of sugar, cattle, rice, and tobacco. Over 160 here-
tofore private firms now belong to the public sector. Except for slaughter-
houses and fish processing firms, the expropriated agroindustrial companies
have been placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agrarian Reform.
Most of the rest have been placed temporarily with a Trust for National
Reconstruction (FRN). Added to these new State assets are all the nation's
domestic commercial banks, finance companies, and savings banks and insurance
companies. Expropriated restaurants, supermarkets, shops, and other service
establishments as well as the nationalization of much agricultural trade have
made the State responsible for about 10-15 percent of the value added in
commerce and other services. In total, the public sector of Nicaragua now
probably accounts for at least 40 percent of the nation's GDP. In acquiring
these substantial assets, of course, the Government also assumed their lia-
bilities, a debt that is still being calculated.
1/   The Government is purchasing the shares of the banking system with
5-year bonds; the Somoza holdings were confiscated outright; but some
other corporations (Somoza minority holdings, abandoned firms) have
been legally intervened, expropriated, or requisitioned.



-4-
9.        The immediate constraints on economic recovery now stem from public
finance, monetary, and balance of payments problems. The new Government has
repeatedly stressed that it intends to follow prudent fiscal and monetary
policies, but because of the disruption in government operations from June
through August, the current fiscal and monetary situation remains unclear.
A number of new agencies and ministries have been established and some old
ones disbanded or revised. A new Ministry of Agrarian Reform not only has
responsibility for the cooperatives being established on confiscated lands,
but it will direct most new state-owned agroindustries.  The old housing bank
has been terminated and much of its staff moved to a new Ministry of Housing
and Human Settlements.  The Planning Office was elevated to a Ministry; and
the International Fund for Reconstruction (FIR) has been established to
coordinate all foreign borrowing, debt re-negotiation, and relations with
multilateral agencies. The state-owned commercial and development banks were
combined with the staff of the Special Development Fund (FED) of the Central
Bank to form a new Development Bank of Nicaragua (BDN). The National Guard
has been disbanded and a new popular army established from the revolutionary
forces. Both the army and a complementary militia receive only subsistence
wages.
10.       Because there was no official payments schedule for the new Govern-
ment structure, the Central Bank (CB) was authorized to make direct payments
to each Ministry or Agency for all necessary expenditures until October, when
the Ministry of Finance established its first, tentative quarterly budget.
The goal is to match operational expenditures with anticipated receipts, but
even in late September expenditure obligations of many new ministries and
agencies remained unclear. The quarterly budget system may remain in effect
through 1980.
11.       The Government is expected to announce shortly new regulations to
increase tax receipts in the short-run, including a moratorium period to pay
taxes in arrears, a resumption of the export taxes on traditional exports
and increased tariffs on luxury imports. The salaries of many senior officials
were reduced drastically by imposing a US$1,000 monthly salary ceiling. The
Government is now carefully considering its salary policy for all public
sector workers. The effect of these measures is still not clear, but one of
its major purposes clearly is to bring a disastrous fiscal situation under
control. In the first half of 1979 Central Government savings were negative
and its deficit was 80 percent higher than that of the first semester of 1978.
The Government hopes to reduce the deficit for all of 1979 to about t1 billion,
almost 15 percent below that of 1978 but still about 7 to 8 percent of GDP.
Because of the new army's low wages, the two months loss of wages, and reduc-
tion of the civilian work force, the deficit may be less, and financed mostly
from noninflationary external aid. The reduction in the 1979 deficit is
possible only because capital outlays will be below one quarter of the 1978
level.  The Government intends to continue the austerity measures at the
same level in 1980.
12.       The future financial needs of both the traditional and new public
enterprises remain uncertain. Most public utilities were unable to collect
receipts during a two to three month period; even in September their



-5-
collections were poor because of bankruptcies and deteriorated management.
Since many of these utilities have considerable external debts, the Govern-
ment's efforts at arranging debt relief will also have a considerable effect
on their cash flow needs for 1980-81. The Government wants its productive
enterprises to be guided by principles that stress economic efficiency.
Nevertheless, for the immediate future other goals, such as employment reten-
tion or generation and a more egalitarian wage structure, may take precedence.
Until the financial position of these entities is clarified decisions as to
tradeoffs between these goals have been deferred.
13.       The nationalized commercial banks are now technically insolvent.
In effect, they have lost most of their capital and reserves and at present
are dependent on the Central Bank or foreign funds for liquidity. Government
policy is to reverse the recent emphasis of credit allocation. Between April
1978 and April 1979, internal banking credit to the private sector increased
by a modest 11 percent while net credit to the public sector quintupled. The
banking system's resources came from abroad; foreign loans doubled and net
foreign reserves fell. In sum, external loans to the banking system, mostly
to the Central Bank, were used to finance credit expansion to the public
sector.
14.       The Government now hopes to channel the greater portion of future
credit to productive sectors, public or private. This will be difficult.
The looting, burning, and destruction that reduced many firms to insolvency
have greatly reduced the values of the commercial banks' loan portfolios.
In an effort to both reduce the money supply as well as penalize those who
had taken currency out of the country, the Central Bank forced holders of
bills worth US$50 or more to exchange them immediately for six-months savings
certificates. This reduced the bills outstanding by almost US$39 million,
thus permitting a noninflationary credit expansion of that amount. Despite
the enormous difficulties confronting the banking sector, depositors appear
to have maintained confidence in the system. The outflow of deposits has
reversed itself and there are indications of slight increases in deposits
through September 21, 1979. Demand for credit by mid-September was slow since
the commercial banks were just opening again for business and it was well
known that their lending capacity was limited. The Government is eager to
channel concessionary aid into credit expansion since rediscounting by the
Central Bank to provide sufficient credit to finance the reconstruction effort
could be highly inflationary, unless it is supported by foreign borrowing
which would permit an expansion of supply through imports.
15.       The most severe problem stems from the balance of payments.  In the
first semester of 1979 there was a balance of payments current account surplus
of US$180 million, a stagnation of official capital flows and a substantial
outflow of private capital about equal to the current account surplus. About
15 percent of annual GDP flowed out to unknown, private recipients in 6 months.
Between July and December of 1979 the picture is expected to shift dramatic-
ally. A current account deficit of about US$40 million can be expected in the
second semester. With substantial assistance from abroad--about US$70 million
in grants and more than US$100 million in soft loan disbursements--the new
Government is importing badly needed food, medicine and other basic items.



- 6 -
For 1979 as a whole, we expect a current account surplus of about US$140
million and a modest increase in reserves, because of a sharp drop in imports
and a deferral of most interest payments on the country's external debt. In
real terms annual imports may be more than a quarter below the 1978 level,
and almost half the 1977 level. Net international reserves will likely be
minus US$500 million by the end of 1979, if arrears in short-term debt are
added.
16.       The new Government has received a relatively quick response to its
requests for concessional, external assistance. Among the first to respond
were the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Government of Venezuela.
Within days the IDB, with the agreement of the Government of Venezuela, had
deposited in the Central Bank of Nicaragua US$20 million from its Venezuelan
Trust Fund for supplementing gross foreign exchange needs. By mid-August the
IDB had adjusted its undisbursed loans, and by mid-September it had approved
loans for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation of US$61.5 million includ-
ing US$25 million from the Venezuelan Trust Fund; cofinancing by the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) added US$12 million. The
U.S. Government had begun an emergency air lift of medical supplies and has
continued to provide foodstuffs since. The UN relief agencies, Red Cross, and
nearby countries--particularly Costa Rica and Cuba--also were quick to provide
emergency assistance. The list of assisting agencies and countries has grown
rapidly. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) has
recently adjusted its outstanding loans, has made a US$12.5 million loan to
reactivate the program for the control of coffee leaf rust and has begun dis-
cussions of other future projects. The UNDP Program for the next few years
has been supplemented by the United Nations General Assembly; the resources
that can be applied to Nicaragua now exceed US$5 million. Grants have also
been forthcoming from the European Economic Community and Organization of
Petroleum Export Countries' Special Fund. Among the major bilateral donors
have been Germany (with a commitment of approximately US$39 million in grants
for a 2-year period), Peru, Sweden, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain,
and Mexico. The Central American countries have both individually and
collectively, through their regional monetary agency, extended general export
credits to Nicaragua. These have been particularly helpful in ensuring that
some trade continued in the Central American area.
17.       Very little external debt service payments are expected to be made in
1979. The mission estimates cumulative payment arrears during 1978 and 1979 at
about US$215 million for the public sector and US$115 million for the former
Nicaraguan private sector. An additional US$315 million in short-term arrears
would bring total arrears to over US$645 million. Debt service payments due
in 1979 for public and publicly guaranteed debt, not counting obligations
associated with the firms and banks newly in the public sector or short-term
obligations, would equal about 35 percent of expected receipts from exports of
goods and nonfactor services; about 85 percent of it is payable to commercial
banks.
18.       The short-term balance of payments problem is exacerbated by the
poor prospects for 1980 exports. While coffee receipts should continue to
grow despite the expected decline in price and exports to the Central American
Common Market should recover well, cotton receipts may be down US$100 million
compared to 1979 because the July/August plantings were disrupted severely by



- 7 -
the war. Because of the severe foreign exchange constraint, imports must be
limited. For 1980, it is estimated that while real GDP will remain 20 percent
below the pre-war year of 1977, real imports must be limited to 27 percent
below 1977 levels if a modest level of gross reserves is to be gradually
rebuilt.
19.       Balance of payments projections for 1980 and 1981 can only be illus-
trative. Nevertheless, based on the Bank mission's estimates of GDP, import,
and export growth, the projections show net external assistance requirements
of about US$670 million for these two years. Of this amount, it is anticipated
that extraordinary grants averaging US$25 million yearly and disbursements of
US$190 million and US$110 million might be possible in 1980 and 1981, respec-
tively, from new loans and accelerated disbursement schedules on ongoing
loans agreed to during the second half of 1979. Depending on the level of
foreign investment and private inflows of capital during the next few years,
up to an additional US$320 million could be needed in net capital flows
(i.e., excluding grants) in 1980-1981.
Current Account Balance of Payments, 1977-1979 and Net External Assistance
Required - 1980-1981
(US$ Million)
Actual            Est.        Projected
1977      1978        1979      1980      1981
Merchandise Exports, FOB                636.8      646.0      580        540       730
Merchandise Imports, FOB               -704.1    -546.8      -420       -675      -830
Balance                           -67.3       99.2       160       -135     -100
NFS Receipts                            105.3      113.0        80        85       115
NFS Payments                          -146.7    -139.2       -155       -140      -175
Balance                           -41.4      -26.2       -75        -55      -60
Resource Balance                       -108.7       73.0        85      -190      -160
Interest Payments                       -49.5     -50.7       -11       -140 1/   -60 1/
Profit Remittances                      -28.5     -22.4          -         -         -
Transfers                                11.0       10.0        70        50        20
Current Account Balance               -175.7         9.9      144       -280      -200
Change in Net Reserves 2/
(- = increase)                       -56.6       22.3       -30         -60      -80
Net Capital Flows Required                                              -340      -280
1/   Excludes interest payments and arrears on private debt.  For 1980 includes
interest arrearages on public debt for 1978 and 1979 of approximately
US$72 million. No penalty interest is calculated on arrearages of
principal or interest.
2/   After 1979, increases in reserves required to bring gross reserves to
equivalence of three months imports, CIF, by the end of 1981.
Note: If interest payments due on debt considered private before July 19, 1979
with an original maturity of one year or more were included as paid obligations,
it would raise financial requirements by US$20 million yearly assuming it were
rolled over.



-8 -
20.       Nicaragua's creditworthiness for normal Bank lending is extremely
limited. Its outstanding debt of US$1.5 billion at the end of 1978 (medium
and long-term external debt of US$1,113 million and US$400 million in short-
term debt) was about 80 percent of GDP. The known arrears in short-term debt
amount to US$315 million. When the arrears in medium- and long-term debt are
added, the total projected arrears in debt service at the end of 1979 are
estimated at US$645 million. Debt service payments falling due in 1980 and
1981 are projected at US$230 million and US$180 million, respectively. Even
assuming no carry-over of arrears into 1980, the projected debt service ratio
would be about 35 percent. Some form of restructuring of Nicaragua's debt
will be required over the next few years. This rescheduling would be in addi-
tion to the estimated external borrowing of over US$300 million per year. The
authorities realize that an economic program is necessary as part of this debt
exercise. It is anticipated that such a program will be formulated, presented
and discussed with its creditors and aid donors in early 1980. In the mean-
time, it is apparent that Nicaragua's extremely weak balance of payments situa-
tion and reduced income mean that a major share of the substantial assistance
needed from institutions such as the World Bank for emergency reconstruction
and rehabilitation should be on concessional terms and thus result in average
terms as soft as possible. The balance of payments situation combined with an
extremely difficult fiscal situation (see paragraphs 9-12 above) also justify
official assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of individual
projects.
Longer-Term Prospects
21.       While Nicaragua's immediate and medium-term prospects are dominated
by the recovery problems, its longer term prospects will depend on the new
Government's ability to implement its economic and social goals effectively.
Nicaragua has good agricultural potential; it has the highest ratio of arable
land to population in Central America, a relatively good infrastructure,
and an urban population dispersed relatively consistently with the country's
spatial advantages. The country's longer run growth prospects will depend
heavily on the Government's approach to attaining its income distribution
goals and its management of the greatly enlarged public sector. It is too
soon to make judgments in these areas now; the following discussion' only
outlines the key issues the Government must confront.
22.       First, the domestic savings need of the economy will be large.  Even
after a possible debt rescheduling, the Government will not only encounter
difficulties in borrowing new significant funds from non-official sources, it
may wish independently to limit such borrowings to avoid exacerbating its debt
service. The Government has already firmly stated it will not place a great
reliance on foreign savings for financing development. Secondly, the greater
size of the public sector and the enlarged Government control over the banking
system means public policy will be crucially responsible for marshalling
domestic savings. As much as one third of past corporate savings was probably
generated by firms now in the public sector. The reduced investment oppor-
tunities for the upper classes and the Government's income distribution goals
mean that Government and public enterprises, rather than households, must
directly generate greater savings. This will be difficult to achieve unless
the efficiency of Government programs is high and State enterprises are run



-9-
profitably. Finally, not only will the Government control about one half of
industry and some key marketing areas, but also from one-third to one-half
the nation's farmers may be using state land and producing in accordance with
Government-determined priorities. This situation means the State must assume
the major, direct responsibility for ensuring that investment and production
are conducted efficiently.
23.       Secondly, the Government is determined to improve the lot of
Nicaragua's poor. It expects to do this by stressing agricultural development
and the provision of social services (health, nutrition, education) to all
rural residents. The speed, cost, and success of measures developed to
implement these goals will be crucial indeed. It may be difficult to develop
agricultural activities in new regions of the country until the present,
greatly changed agricultural production system is adequately redesigned and
operating well. Some other countries in the hemisphere have quickly encoun-
tered fiscal constraints when they expanded urban-designed social programs to
rural areas; some have tried to improve urban programs as they expanded rural
ones and found themselves constrained equally rapidly. The Government is
aware that it must successfully link its growth and equity goals to increasing
productivity and efficiency or it may jeopardize both of them.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
24.       Nicaragua has received to date 24 Bank loans and two IDA credits
for a total of US$185 million. The last operation, a loan of US$3 million
for a rural sanitation project was signed on February 9, 1978. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of October 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Because of major fiscal difficulties that emerged during 1978 and the disrup-
tive effects of the civil war that began in the latter part of that year, the
Bank has not lent to Nicaragua since early 1978. In mid-1979 it concluded
that meaningful project activities and adequate supervision of ongoing proj-
ects were no longer possible. The Board was informed on July 16 (R79-192)
that no further disbursements on existing loans and credits would be made.
The Government of Nicaragua was subsequently replaced by a Junta of National
Reconstruction. The Junta requested emergency assistance from the inter-
national community to facilitate recovery from the economic disaster caused
by war time devastation and looting as well as by large outflows of capital.
In response to this request a Bank mission visited Nicaragua in September to
review the overall situation and priorities, to recommend changes in outstand-
ing loans, and to develop with the new Government proposals for emergency
lending to assist in the recovery effort. The operations recommended today
are the result of the work of that mission. The mission also recommended
to the Board revision of ongoing loans (R79-264) which were approved on
October 29. Disbursements on existing loans and credits were resumed in
November. As of October 31, 1979, a total of US$40.2 million remained to
be disbursed.
1/   This section is identical to the section on Bank Group Operations in the
President's Report on the Urban Reconstruction Project (P-2662-NI) dated
November 29, 1979.



- 10 -
25.       In the past the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts;
(b) to help build viable institutions in key sectors such as water supply
and electric power; (c) to help spread the benefits of growth to more people
through lending such as for education, rural sanitation, agriculture, and
water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the reconstruction effort
after the devastating earthquake of 1972.
26.       Because of the Government's preoccupation with emergency reconstruc-
tion requirements it has not been possible to develop with the new Government
a long-term lending program for the Bank Group. A new public investment pro-
gram is now being formulated, and the Government expects to invite the Bank
to begin discussions of new projects in early 1980. In preliminary discus-
sion, the Government has indicated interest in Bank participation in the
rural and energy sectors as well as continued involvement with major sectoral
institutions (power and water supply) with which the Bank has had a long-
standing relationship. The Bank group's lending activities to Nicaragua are
being closely coordinated with other donors such as IDB, CABEI, USAID and other
bilateral agencies.
27.       IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY68 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY74 to local shareholders. In FY76 IFC provided US$6.5 million in
long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to help expand
their production capacity and develop new cane fields. Also in FY76 IFC made
a loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respectively, to
help finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. An IFC mission has
visited Nicaragua after the change of Government. The mission was able to
determine that IFC's three investments in Nicaragua received minor damages
but were not destroyed during the civil war. The necessity for rescheduling
the existing loans is now being analyzed. A further mission is planned for
discussions with the new Government regarding assistance to private industry.
PART III - BANKING, AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS
Banking
28.       Prior to the war, Nicaragua had a mixture of public and private
commercial banks and specialized financial institutions regulated by the
Central Bank and monitored by a Superintendent of Banks and other institu-
tions. Government institutions, accounting for 53 percent of the financial
system's total assets in 1976, included the National Bank of Nicaragua (BNN),
the country's largest commercial bank; the National Development Institute
(INFONAC); the Banco de la Vivienda, a public housing bank; and two insti-
tutions specializing in small-scale loans. Private institutions including
seven commercial banks, 1/ six finance companies and six financial warehouses,
1/   Including three branches of foreign banks.



- 11 -
which together accounted for 43 percent of total assets. 1/ Despite the
diversity of institutions, two competing private groups controlled approxi-
mately three-fourths of the total assets of private financial institutions;
thus the Government and these two private groups were the dominant forces in
the financial system.
29.       The largest and most important financial institutions were multi-
purpose intermediaries; however, a certain degree of specialization by sector
was reflected in their loan portfolios. BNN concentrated on agriculture and
livestock loans (42 percent of 1977 portfolio), private banks on commercial
and industrial loans (65 percent), and INFONAC and the finance companies
on industry (67 percent and 42 percent, respectively). INFONAC has been
the major lender of medium- and long-term funds for industry and agriculture;
however, in recent years the banking system has been able to draw on the FED,
administered by the Central Bank, for such lending.
30.       After a long period of monetary stability, the financial sector
had come to share many of the characteristics of more developed financial
systems, including (i) a high level of financial assets (almost equal to
the country's GDP); (ii) a considerable degree of savings intermediation
(more than 50 percent in 1975-76); (iii) a relatively high proportion of
time and savings deposits in the total money supply (about 41 percent);
(iv) a fairly flexible interest rate structure with interest rate levels
that tended to reflect market conditions; (v) good access to foreign
exchange markets; and (vi) a growing spectrum of financial institutions
that competed heavily for funds in the domestic market. The banking system
had expanded to include 227 branches and agencies located throughout the
country. While some public financial intermediaries were poorly run,
Nicaragua's private banks enjoyed the public's confidence and were generally
considered to be sound, well-managed institutions.
31.       The financial situation of the country's intermediaries began to
deteriorate after 1977 and continued deteriorating at an accelerating pace
through the end of the revolution. Presently available financial figures on
commercial banks, though preliminary and subject to change, illustrate the
problems facing the financial system even before the revolution accelerated
in June. Total deposits between March 1977 and April 1979 fell by 23 percent;
during the same period, total loans outstanding increased by one-third.
Interest and principal arrears accumulated by one unofficial estimate to
around 30 percent of total loan portfolios, and operating revenues dropped.
The commercial banks financed this drain of resources through increased
borrowings from foreign sources and the Central Bank. Foreign currency
borrowings during the period rose by 150 percent while borrowings from the
Central Bank increased 230 percent.
1/   In addition, the financial system included insurance companies, warrants
companies, and savings and loans associations which did not come under
the supervision of the Banking Superintendent and represented 4 percent
of total financial system assets.



- 12 -
Preliminary Consolidated Commercial Bank Balance Sheets
(million Cordobas)
March 1977    April 1978    April 1979
Liquid Assets                    1,166              581            644
Loans                            2,579           3,111           3,429
Other 1/                         1,043            1,158          1,474
Total                       4,788           4,850          5,547
Deposits                         2,765           2,435          2,131
Foreign Currency Loans             470              771          1,171
Central Bank Loans                 193             255             641
Other                              856              858          1,054
Capital and Reserves .             504             531             550
4,788           4,850          5,547
1/   The April 1979 figure reportedly includes estimated probable
foreign exchange losses.
32.       An April 1979 devaluation of the Cordoba by 43 percent adversely
affected the banks' finances and the destruction and looting of June/July
1979 dealt a further and devastating blow to the banking system. The foreign
exchange loss, was considerable, but the precise amount has yet to be deter-
mined. Additional, and perhaps larger, losses will arise from uncollectable
loans to borrowers who face bankruptcy because of destroyed or looted assets
or who have departed the country. To prevent a total collapse of the finan-
cial system, the new Government nationalized private, domestic financial insti-
tutions, named new top managers to replace those who had left the country,
and provided some liquidity support through the Central Bank to keep them in
operation. Foreign banks were not nationalized but their operations were
restricted; principally there is now a prohibition against accepting deposits.
While none of the country's intermediaries have closed, they are operating
at substantially reduced lending levels while providing other basic banking
services.
33.       The Nicaraguan financial system will undergo a fundamental restruc-
turing. The Banking Superintendent has ordered detailed internal audits of
all institutions, including an assessment of the quality of all outstanding
loans, in order to determine their true position. This effort is complicated
by the recent expansion of the public sector. Many new State-owned firms owe
large sums to state-owned banks, which--in turn--owe large sums to foreign
creditors. Outside consultants have been contracted and consideration is
being given to the use of international auditing firms. The Central Bank has
undertaken studies to determine how the system might be restructured and
recapitalized.  These recommendations will be presented to the Government in



- 13 -
the near future and may include some consolidation of institutions and
specialization of operations, perhaps by sector. In the meantime, the BNN,
INFONAC and the FED 1/ have been combined into a single successor development
organization--the National Development Bank (BDN)--which is acting to meet
the most urgent financial needs, particularly in the agricultural sector.
34.       Despite the many serious problems confronting Nicaragua's financial
system, it also displays several strengths which should facilitate the task
of rehabilitation. First, the public's confidence in the system appears to
have been somewhat restored. The deposit outflow was reversed in mid-August
1979 and total deposits increased through mid-September 1979, the latest date
for which preliminary deposit figures are available. Second, individual
institutions have retained experienced and well-trained professional staff
despite the changes in top management. Third, the Government has committed
itself to strong support and a rational restructuring of the system.
35.       The Government would like to make credit from foreign sources
available to industry and agriculture through the nationalized banking system.
Its objective would be to provide financing to those enterprises that can
resume production most expeditiously and which meet the country's most urgent
priorities of earning foreign exchange, providing employment and producing
foodstuffs. Loans would be granted for working capital as well as for the
repair or replacement of fixed installations. In this manner the Government
hopes to encourage some repatriation of private capital, to work towards
the reopening of normal channels of trade credit and to begin rebuilding the
national banking system.
Agriculture
36.       Agriculture continues to be the most important sector in the Nicara-
guan economy, generating about 23 percent of GDP and providing 46 percent
of employment. During the period 1972-78, the real agricultural value added
grew at an average of over 6.5 percent per annum, slightly above the total
GDP growth rate. With the exception of cotton, where yields are exceptionally
high, most of the growth in output has come from increases in area farmed,
especially in the Pacific and Central zones. As cropping expanded in the
Pacific region, cattle activities have been slowly transferred from the
Pacific to the Central and Atlantic regions. The crop subsector growth has
come mainly from the export crops, mostly cotton, coffee, sugarcane, bananas
and tobacco, which accounted for 42 percent of the area planted and 80 percent
of the total value of the production (1976/77-1978/79 crop years). Output of
export crops grew at about 8 percent per annum during 1972-78, over twice the
growth rate of crops produced for the internal market. The growth of the
livestock subsector has come mainly from cattle, which accounts for 73 percent
of the total value of livestock production.
1/   Consideration is being given to the transfer of the FED to the FIR
(para. 9) to ensure greater autonomy in the allocation of scarce foreign
resources.



- 14 -
37.       About 75 percent of mechandise exports originate from the agricul-
tural sector, and a relatively small number of products contribute to these
exports. The most important items are cotton, coffee, sugar, and beef; less
important are bananas and tobacco. Besides contributing to exports and export
growth, the agricultural sector has been able to supply most of the food pro-
ducts required by the domestic market. Imports of products of agricultural
origin averaged only US$31 million per year during the period 1977 and 1978.
This was equivalent to about 4 percent of total imports.
38.       Because of the war, the supply of food as well as future export
earnings have been reduced. The final phase of the war was associated with
general unrest in the countryside, labor problems, takeover of farms and loot-
ing of livestock, farm machinery and equipment. It also coincided with the
main planting of the 1979-80 crop year. Therefore, planting was disrupted
seriously and the impact was felt with great intensity in the commercial
farming subsector.
39.       The information available indicates that the overall area planted
in 1979/80 dropped by 229,000 ha (one-third) as compared with the previous
crop year; the real value of production may be reduced by 27 percent. Pro-
duction for export will be the most affected. The value of cotton production,
representing about a quarter of Nicaragua's merchandise exports, will probably
suffer a reduction of 70 percent (US$96 million), as only 53,000 ha have been
planted, compared with normal years when 196,000 ha were under cotton. A
further drop in production is expected because of late plantings. Sugarcane,
bananas, and tobacco production may fall by 5 percent, mainly through decreases
in productivity. The sugar decrease, however, will be greater if the San
Antonio sugar mill, heavily damaged by the war, representing about 30 percent
of the country's total processing capacity, is not fully operational.  As a
result of exceptionally good weather and an increase of about 3,000 ha in
area harvested, production of coffee, the main export of Nicaragua, is expected
to increase slightly.  However, during the war, the program to control coffee
leaf rust was discontinued and, consequently, the area affected by the disease
may have increased, which would affect future coffee production. 1/ On the
other hand, as a result of the efforts to increase total production, almost
15,000 ha not planted in cotton were planted with sesame, so that production
of this crop is expected to increase by about 160 percent, and partially
compensate for the shortfall in production of cottonmeal and oil.
40.       A decrease of almost one-third in area planted and of almost one-half
of the value of production is expected in crops for the domestic market this
year. The total area used for corn production will be about halved; a re-
duction of about 17 percent in area planted and of 26 percent in production is
expected for beans, sorghum and tobacco for the domestic market. The total
area under rice has decreased by 15 percent and production will fall by about
22 percent.
1/   Nicaragua has recently received a US$12.5 million loan from CABEI to
reactivate the control of coffee leaf rust.



- 15 -
41.       Losses in the livestock subsector were caused mainly by an increase
in the slaughter and stealing of mature and immature beef cattle and the
drastic depletion of the commercial poultry and pig stock. The annual beef
export quota to the US (70 million pounds) was met by June 1979, through
accelerated slaughter of both mature and immature cattle. Similarly, large
numbers of cattle were killed in the countryside to feed guerrilla fighters
and townspeople. In addition, it has been reported that relatively large
numbers of cattle have been smuggled outside the country. The losses to the
dairy sector are equivalent to a reduction of 7 percent of annual output.
(It is difficult to make an assessment of the effective losses of beef cattle
or the impact on future production of beef; however, it is estimated that
herd size has been reduced by about 15 percent; it could require six years to
bring the herd back to the 1979 level.) Depletion of commercial poultry and
pig stocks implies a decrease in total availability of poultry by a quarter
and in pigs by two-fifths.
42.       The public agricultural institutions have been revised drastically
by the new Government. The changes to the public credit institutions were
discussed in paragraph 33 above. In the past, the Ministry of Crops and
Livestock, now the Ministry of Agriculture and Development (MIDA), was
responsible for planning, programming, budgeting, coordinating, monitoring,
and evaluating all of the agricultural activities in the country through
eleven decentralized agencies and one supporting institution. The main
policy decisions were made through the National Committee for Crops and
Livestock (CNA), a council made up of the managers of the decentralized
institutions. The new institutional system divides responsibility for the
public sector between two main institutions, but the extent, scope, nature,
and organization of their activities are still being defined.
43.       One of the two main institutions of the agricultural sector is the
Nicaraguan Agrarian Reform Institute (INRA) now headed by a Minister. INRA
has been assigned responsibility for all activities and policy-making pertain-
ing to the agricultural reform. This includes some 0.5 million ha of recently
confiscated land, about 140,000 ha of land settlements, and 4.5 million ha of
Government land. INRA combines partially or totally the functions of the
following agencies: the Land Titling Agency, the Directorate of Agricultural
Sector Planning (DIPSA) and the Research and Extension Service for small-scale
farmers of the Institute of Agricultural Technology.
44.       INRA's activities are currently centered on dealing with the agri-
cultural emergency and organizing production on recently expropriated land.
The information available indicates that about 500,000 ha (of which 80 percent
may be arable land), made up of former holdings of the Somoza family and some
Government and military officials, are being currently managed through INRA.
The land confiscated by INRA may represent about half of the land normally
under crops in Nicaragua. The process of confiscation of these land holdings
as well as other farmlands is being carried out in a decentralized and dis-
organized manner. It has, therefore, been difficult for INRA to make a quick
assessment of the use and value of this new land.
45.       Management and control of the new state-owned land have been sepa-
rated into two sections:



- 16 -
(a) Integrated farm operations, including production and some
processing such as sugar and rice milling, coffee and
tobacco processing, and specialized farming operations such
as modern and intensive dairy farms are the responsibility
of the agroindustrial division of INRA (AGROINRA). These
enterprises are being run as state farms; management at
regional and national levels has been assigned to qualified
professionals, and the overall productive and management
structure still remains practically as it was under the
former owners. AGROINRA controls four sugar mills, repre-
senting about three-fifths of industrial sugar production;
nearly all of the irrigated rice land; all the farms produc-
ing tobacco for export; about one-tenth of the total coffee
area, including one-quarter of coffee processing capacity;
and 15 percent of commercial dairy production and one plant
with one-fifth of the country's milk processing capacity; and
(b) the responsibility for management of the balance of the con-
fiscated land has been assigned to INRA's regional offices.
Except for policy decisions that (i) all the confiscated
land belongs to the State; (ii) no individual tenure rights
would be granted; and (iii) some type of collective farming
operations would be established, the future management and
organization of these lands has not been defined. Nearly
all of INRA's resources are directed towards bringing this
land into production. During the 1979/80 crop year, INRA
has encouraged former farm laborers, and even other landless
laborers and sharecroppers, to plant as much land as possible;
INRA is providing whatever inputs are available and the net
proceeds of the harvest will be retained by the labor force.
46.       The other main institution, MIDA, formerly had overall responsi-
bility and capabilities for agricultural policy and planning and for the
coordination of the sectoral public institutions, but these functions have
been practically eliminated with the transfer of DIPSA to INRA. Therefore,
the current functions of MIDA appear to be those related to research and
extension for commercial farming; conservation of natural resources; agri-
cultural statistics; and agricultural controls and inspections.
47.       The Ministry of Domestic and Foreign Commerce, which is being
created from the previous Institute of Domestic and Foreign Commerce, will
be responsible, through seven autonomous agencies, for marketing nearly all
agricultural production. These agencies will handle cotton, coffee, sugar,
beef, marine products, basic food crops, and imports and distribution of
agricultural inputs. The first of these agencies, the Nicaragua Coffee Enter-
prise (INCAFE), is already in operation. Information provided by INCAFE's
management indicates that the agency will control coffee sales in the domestic
and export markets; establish and implement support prices to the producer
and marketing margins and prices at the wholesale and retail levels; and
provide credit through established buyers. At present, INCAFE's activities
in the internal market are being implemented through the existing marketing



- 17 -
channels; however, the agency has taken full control of coffee exports and
its future plans call for direct intervention in the internal market through
the establishment of buying points throughout the country.
48.       To summarize, the Government now has direct control of approximately
half the crop land in Nicaragua. In addition, it may assume full control of
the marketing of major crops and agricultural inputs. This is a substan-
tial change from the pre-war situation; the future of the agricultural sector
depends largely on INRA's success in regaining past levels of production on
expropriated lands.
Industry
49.       Nicaragua's industrial sector has experienced very high growth since
1960, increasing by about 15 percent yearly in real terms during 1960-68 and
over 10 percent yearly from 1969-77, well above the growth rate for total
product. As a consequence, its share in GDP rose from 12.5 percent in 1960
to 19.4 percent in 1977. While the principal factor has been the overall
growth in domestic incomes, reflecting in great part the expansion and diver-
sification of export-oriented agriculture, manufacturing activity also bene-
fited from the country's participation in CACM. Exports of non-food manu-
factures to that area rose from negligible levels in 1960 to over US$100
million in 1976, representing about one-fifth of the gross value of non-food
industrial output in the latter year. These exports have been highly concen-
trated in a few products: insecticides, caustic soda, polyvinyl chloride, and
steel wires, all produced by plants which sell most of their output in the
regional market. The industrial sector has provided employment to about 15
percent of the labor force in recent years.
50.       During the period there was a marked change in the structure of
the sector. The traditional consumer goods industries (food, beverages,
tobacco, textiles, clothing and shoes) which had accounted for more than
four-fifths of industrial value added in 1960, contributed about three-fifths
in 1977. The sharp growth in the share of intermediate goods, principally
chemicals and metal products, reflected in great part the impact of the CACM
exports.
51.       The political disturbances in 1978 led to a decline in industrial
output of about 10 percent from the peak level recorded in 1977. Exports of
manufactured products to the CACM, however, actually expanded in 1978, partly
because of the contraction in domestic demand. The events of 1979 brought
with them a more severe contraction of industrial activity. For almost two
months, June and July, industrial production virtually ceased. In spite of
the rather substantial efforts made at restoring order since then, the physi-
cal and financial losses sustained during the period of armed conflict have
continued to weigh heavily on the industrial sector; by the end of September,
manufacturing activity appears to have been no more than one-half the 1977
level, and this is likely to be the average for the entire year.
52.       In the face of the fall in output, unemployment in industry has
risen sharply. In early 1979, it was estimated that one-quarter of the



- 18 -
economically active population in manufacturing was without work, although
the decline in output was twice that. The Government has taken measures to
encourage enterprises to maintain employment, and many of the workers were
being used in repair or maintenance activities. A number of firms were work-
ing short shifts or alternating days in order to provide some income to the
labor force.
53.       Shortly after the cessatior of fighting, several independent assess-
ments were undertaken of the physical losses experienced by the industrial
sector. Damage was most severe in the industrial area along the northern
highway in Managua, where a number of plants were completely destroyed and
many others suffered major damages. Factories located in the Managua area
account for about 60 percent of the value of total manufacturing output.
While the urban centers of Esteli, Matagalpa and Masaya all suffered heavy
damage, the industrial plants in those areas experienced relatively minor
damages with only few exceptions.
54.       The current replacement cost of the damaged industrial facilities
(buildings, machinery and equipment) has been estimated at about US$50 million.
A considerable proportion of this represents office buildings, storage, ware-
house and related facilities. The loss in productive facilities is therefore
estimated at 5 to 10 percent of the book value of fixed assets for the entire
sector. Perhaps the most serious losses were sustained as a result of the
looting of inventories of raw materials and finished products. Many plants
which suffered no damage to production installations experienced widespread
stock losses. A study by the Central Bank of 160 enterprises representing
about 60 percent of the total gross value of manufacturing output indicates
that they experienced losses equivalent to some 28 percent of the value of
their inventories as compared to damages equivalent to 9 percent of fixed
assets. While 16 percent of the firms had damages in excess of 25 percent
of the value of fixed assets, 44 percent experienced losses in excess of 25
percent of the value of their inventories. For the entire sector, the value
of inventory losses has been estimated at US$60 million.
55.       Finally, the sector has experienced some losses in managerial and
technical personnel. During the period of intense fighting, a relatively
large share of the population left the country. While many have returned,
some plant owners and top managers have not. Although the country boasts
a fairly sizable dynamic and educated pool of executives, the losses in these
personnel will lead to some problems in restoring output.
56.       The major constraint on medium-term output expansion may be the poor
financial situation of many enterprises as well as of the entire banking
system. Overall domestic demand has stagnated due to the losses of income
suffered since early 1978; moreover, many looted products were being traded in
informal markets. Thus, while there have been limited scarcities, factories
which are able to undertake some production have still not restored their
inventories of finished products. Once the existing supplies of these goods
are exhausted in the informal markets, the financial constraints will increas-
ingly restrict necessary production unless measures are taken to ease them.



- 19 -
57.       Aside from the physical damages suffered, the most significant
change has occurred in the ownership of individual enterprises. As mentioned
earlier, shortly after assuming power, the new Government confiscated the
holdings of ex-President Somoza, his family, and associates. In addition, the
Government intervened in a number of enterprises where there were questions
concerning the ownership of assets. At the same time, through the nationaliza-
tion of the domestic commercial banks, the Government became the majority or
only stockholder 1/ of several industrial facilities where those banks pre-
viously had held such shares. As a consequence, en,terprises producing between
40 and 50 percent of the value added in the industrial sector are now in the
public sector.
58.       The bulk of the non-agricultural enterprises controlled by the pub-
lic sector (160 as of mid-September 1979) are managed by the Trust for National
Reconstruction (FRN). Among these are 54 industrial plants including 11
processing fish and seafood, 11 producing construction materials, 3 slaughter-
houses, 2/ 3 textile and garment manufacturers and various others producing
consumer goods (e.g., furniture, jewelry, matches, baked items) and inter-
mediate goods (e.g., steel wire, plywood and agro-chemicals).
59.       FRN is now reviewing the status of each of these enterprises,
including their previous performance and financial position as well as the
extent, if any, of damages resulting from the fighting. Among the industrial
establishments, a large number were not operating for a variety of reasons.
Only a few suffered physical damage but a large number had their inventories
looted. Following the review of these enterprises, it is expected that
measures will be taken to restructure financially those which appear to
have prospects for maintaining or achieving financial viability. FRN has
indicated that it will consider the possibility of closing down those which
do not offer prospects for achieving viability and which have been sustained
in the past largely through extraordinary measures.
60.       The second group of plants in the public sector, about 20, con-
trolled by the financial institutions, covers a wide variety of products.
Most of these companies have had financial difficulties in the past, often
caused by inadequate financial structures or inappropriate production designs,
including excessive diversification of output or obsolete equipment. These
enterprises must also be reviewed to determine the steps needed to restruc-
ture, either financially or technically, those with prospects for achieving
economic and financial viability. As in the case of plants controlled by
FRN, some of these enterprises are not currently operating, although few have
suffered physical damage.
1/   In certain cases, the prior State-owned development finance company,
INFONAC, held the balance of shares not held by the private banks.
2/   Two other slaughterhouses are also controlled by the government; one of
these, the largest in the country (IFOGAN), is jointly owned with a
livestock producers cooperative. These five installations account for
80-85 percent of meat exports.



- 20 -
61.       Officials of the private industrialists' association estimated
that, at the beginning of September 1979, private enterprises were working
at about 25 percent of capacity. However, they expected that increases would
gradually take place as managerial and technical personnel returned and as
some semblance of administrative order was restored in firms where offices
had been looted and records destroyed. Some improvements appeared to emerge
already in September. The severest physical losses in the private sector
occurred to facilities producing paints, pharmaceuticals, agricultural imple-
ments, construction materials, textiles and beverages--as well as assembling
radio and television sets. Restoration of production by these enterprises
will require major investments which is unlikely in the immediate future.
62.       Several private plants which suffered minor damage are now being
repaired, but they will require working capital loans to restore production
as they suffered inventory losses as well as financial losses due to destruc-
tion of retail or distribution facilities to which they had extended credit.
However, several foreign-owned or operated enterprises which export a sub-
stantial proportion of their output experienced very little physical damage
or looting and have been able to restore production and exports.
63.       In its immediate reconstruction efforts, the new Government has
established three priorities for the industrial sector: to promote (a) pro-
duction of foodstuffs; (b) employment generation; and (c) exports. As regards
the last item, privately owned plants which sell a substantial proportion of
their output to the CACM have been able to restore output and exports (e.g.,
pvc, powdered milk, caustic soda and pesticides) while the FRN-controlled
plywood plant has also been able to resume almost normal production and export
levels. While plants producing steel wire and textiles for export are suffer-
ing from working capital shortages, it is expected that, as international
assistance including the proposed Bank Group assistance is made available,
funds will be channelled to these enterprises. It is likely, therefore,
that in 1980 exports of manufactured products to the CACM may be at about
the level achieved in 1978. On the other hand, manufactured exports to third
areas are not likely to recover as rapidly. The most important of these is
processed seafood which has been adversely affected by the loss of fishing
boats. It appears likely, moreover, that there will be only limited recovery
in the minor export items, such as wood products and textiles, partly due to
the general recession in world markets for these goods.
64.       Given the gradual restoration of transportation and communications,
as well as of administrative and financial order, it is expected that indus-
trial output in 1980 will regain about two-thirds of the 1977 peak level. The
major constraints on the production side will continue to come from the losses
in managerial and technical personnel, the financial difficulties and some
physical damages to capacity. On the demand side, it is likely that, in the
face of the huge personal income losses sustained over 1978 and 1979, con-
sumer purchases of other than absolute necessities will be kept at a minimum.
Thus, exports will play a major role in maintaining industrial activity and
may well account for one-third of the gross value of output. However, as a
result of the current practice of maintaining factory employment in the face
of sharply reduced levels of output, it appears likely that there will be
little increase in total employment in industry in 1980 from end-1979 levels.



- 21 -
65.       Based on this recovery expectation, the rehabilitation requirements
bf industry will comprise (a) repair to damaged facilities; and (b) normal raw
material requirements for a given level of production, plus rebuilding of
stocks. As noted above, physical damages to facilities have been estimated
at US$50 million. A small number of plants have been virtually destroyed
and, within the context of an emergency program, rebuilding these facilities
would not be a priority goal. It is estimated that total requirements for
repairing damaged machinery and equipment to permit early restoration of what
can be considered an adequate output level in the initial phase of reconstruc-
tion would be US$10 million. Rebuilding of inventories is a priority item,
particularly as stocks had already been drawn down in the period prior to the
fighting. It is recognized, however, that it will not be possible to accom-
plish this fully in one year. The estimated financing need for partial
rebuilding of inventories in 1980 is US$20 million.
66.       To estimate raw material needs for 1980, it is convenient to dis-
tinguish between food processing industries and others. Production of the
main inputs of the former group, such as sugar, rice, coffee and cattle, will
be supported through the agricultural component of the proposed Bank Group
financing; moreover, there are generally close links between the processing
facilities and the growers. These industries will, however, require some
inputs such as spare parts, chemicals and packaging materials, most of which
are imported. Based on data for 1976, 1/ it is estimated that such inputs
will amount to US$30 million in 1980, for which financing of US$15 million
would be required.
67.       The bulk of the working capital needs will originate in the nonfood
processing industries which import about 70 percent of their inputs. Raw
materials needs for 1980 are estimated at US$200 million on the expectation
that output will be restored to about two-thirds the 1977 level. Allowing
for a turnover of raw material inventories of three 1/ (due to the high im-
port content), working capital financing of US$60-70 million would be required.
68.       To summarize, financing needs for this initial phase of industrial
reconstruction through the end of 1980 are estimated as follows:
(a)  Immediate needs for repairs to equipment          US$10 million
(b)  Partial rebuilding of inventories                 US$20 million
(c) Raw material needs for current operations
(i)   non-food industries                         US$65 million
(ii)  food processing industries                   US$15 million
TOTAL                              US$110 million
1/   The Central Bank undertook a detailed investigation of a sample of indus-
trial establishments which accounted for about two-thirds of industrial
output in 1976. Relevant ratios have been used to calculate the require-
ments indicated in this and subsequent paragraphs.



- 22 -
69.       As regards the longer-term development of the sector, the new Gov-
ernment has already indicated that industry will not be given high priority
in public investment and development programs. Emphasis will be given to
agriculture to provide employment opportunities and increased incomes to the
rural population whose current income level is relatively low. For the future,
it will be necessary to define more precisely the role of the Government in
the industrial sector, including the question of ownership of the enterprises
now controlled by FRN and the state-owned financial institutions. While there
have been a number of official statements indicating that FRN as an institu-
tion is temporary, it is not clear where control of the companies now under
its administration will eventually lie. In the face of these uncertainties,
it appears likely that new private investment in industry will remain at low
levels. In these circumstances, medium-term priorities for the industrial
sector are the rationalization of existing production capacity (see paras. 59
and 60) and the expansion of agro-processing facilities in line with possible
expansion in agricultural output.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
70.       The project was identified and appraised during a mission that
visited Nicaragua from September 9 to 26, 1979. Negotiations were held in
Washington from November 19 to 21. The principal Government representatives
were the Minister/Director of FIR, and the Director of FED.
Project Objective
71.       The objective of the project would be to assist Government efforts
to regain prewar levels of output, exports and employment in the agricultural
and industrial sectors. The project was designed taking into account Govern-
ment priorities for emergency rehabilitation and was developed in light of
the assistance already planned by other external agencies for agriculture
and industry. The IDB has provided US$31.5 million for an agriculture re-
habilitation project, and IFAD is providing US$12 million of cofinancing for
this project. Under the IDB/IFAD project, 80 percent of the financing will
be provided to small-scale producers, defined as those with total assets of
less than US$50,000. The balance would be provided to producers with assets
between US$50,000 and US$75,000. AID has also provided approximately US$10.5
million for rehabilitation of small-scale producers. The focus of the agri-
cultural component of the Bank Group project is thus mainly on medium-scale
private operations and some of the larger new state enterprises. On the
industrial side, IDB has provided US$25 million from Venezuelan Trust Fund
resources, and US$5 million from the Fund for Special Operations for a program
of credits for industrial rehabilitation. Given the substantial amount of
financing required by industries of varying sizes and types (discussed in the
previous section of this report), the Bank Group financing would be available
1/   The 1976 data suggest a ratio of 2.8.



- 23 -
for purposes similar to those of the IDB. A complementary line of credit would
be provided for small-scale enterprises under the proposed Urban Reconstruction
Credit (being presented simultaneously with this loan/credit).
Executing Agency
72.       Implementing responsibility for both the agricultural and industrial
components would rest primarily with FED,a second-tier lending institution
attached to the BDN. FED will also be the principal implementing agency for
the IDB industrial and agricultural rehabilitation loans. The FED was created
in 1972 as a Government-owned development fund administered by the Central Bank
(CB) as the Government's fiduciary agent. Since the end of the war, the BDN
rather than the CB has administered the FED; however, the Government is con-
sidering transfering the FED to the International Fund for Reconstruction (FIR)
which in turn has overall responsibility for all foreign public borrowings.
(Such change, if made, would be fully acceptable, as it is likely to strengthen
FED's autonomy as a second-tier institution).
73.       The major purpose of the FED is to channel long-term resources from
multilateral and bilateral financial institutions to economically sound invest-
ment projects. The Government provides FED with counterpart funds through
equity contributions and loans.
74.       Before suspending operations in the country (para 24), the Bank had
appraised a proposed industrial credit project and recommended that Bank funds
be channelled through the FED. According to the appraisal mission's findings,
the FED met the Bank's standards from both an operational and institutional
point of view. The FED's operating capabilities were not materially affected
by the events of 1978-79 and the new Government proposes to continue using the
FED, when appropriate, as a channel for funds from international and bilateral
sources. Consequently, the proposed agricultural/industrial loan would be
channelled through the FED which would act as the Government's executing agent.
75.       Organizationally, the FED is set up as an autonomous unit headed
by an executive director who is assisted by area directors in charge of three
lending programs--agricultural development (ADP), industrial development (IDP),
and small-scale enterprise development (SSDP). A new executive director has
been appointed. Since the revolution he has been senior vice president of BDN
but will now devote full time to the FED. Many of the professional staff have
remained, although several have been transferred to other duties within the
BDN since the processing of new development projects has been temporarily
halted. In the interim, remaining FED staff are working on supervision of
existing subloans.
76.       Although responsibility for appraisal and supervision of subprojects
rests with the financial intermediaries, FED staff have frequently provided
assistance, particularly with regard to the economic evaluation of investment
projects. Under the proposed project, the task of subborrower appraisal will
be simplified since subprojects will consist only of rehabilitation of exist-
ing enterprises rather than new investment. However, FED management believes



- 24 -
that the normal full complement of staff will be required to deal with the
many uncertainties of the reconstruction effort and, therefore, the Govern-
ment and BDN have expressed the intention to substantially strengthen the
staff of FED.
77.       FED's operations have grown rapidly since its establishment in
1972, particularly during 1976-78. Its largest program is the ADP which at
year-end 1978 accounted for 52% of total cumulative loan commitments.
Nicaragua: FED Cumulative Loan Approvals, through December 31, 1978
(V million)
Total                       FED Loans
Project       Amount           Amount            % of
Program           Cost        Disbursed         Committed       Commitments
Agriculture        376            145              273              52%
Industry           477            142              201              38%
Small Scale
Enterprise         68             48               52              10%
Total            921            335              526             100%
The ADP operations included a credit program for small and medium-scale bene-
ficiaries to finance crops and livestock which was financed with Bank funds
(Loan 943-NI), borrowings from the CB and a Government grant. Beneficiaries
and intermediary institutions provided 40 percent of total project costs. A
coffee plantation renovation program is also part of the ADP and is financed
by the CB and the Government. The IDP operations, which have accounted for 38
percent of total lending, have emphasized agro-industrial projects, and have
also included lending to the construction, construction materials and tourism
subsectors as well as the financing of pre-investment studies. IDP operations
have been financed by the IDB, CB and the Government, with the beneficiaries
and intermediaries together providing about 58 percent of the total project
costs. The SSDP was established in 1976 with funds from the Government and
USAID and has grown to represent about 10 percent of total lending.
78.       During its first five years of operations, interest rate differen-
tials charged by FED did not fully compensate its operating costs, and it
accumulated losses totalling  9.8 million, mainly in the ADP area. Since
then, Government and CB contributions to equity have been sufficient to offset
these losses and to increase equity capital high enough to have permitted FED
to produce an annual profit in 1977 and 1978. On past operations, interest
rates charged to the final borrower of FED funds ranged from 9.5percent to
12.5 percent depending on the size of the borrower, and interest rate differ-
entials allowed to the intermediary ranged from 0.6 percent to 4.5 percent,
depending on the amount of counterpart funds provided by the intermediary.
Intermediary institutions assumed the full credit risks; consequently, FED
has experienced neither write-offs nor arrears.



- 25 -
Participating Financial Intermediaries
79.       Financial intermediaries eligible to participate in the FED's lend-
ing programs were prequalified based on criteria emphasizing the administra-
tive, technical and financial capacity of the institutions and their ability
to appraise and supervise subprojects. Participating institutions had included
local and foreign commercial banks, financieras, savings and loan associations
and INFONAC, although the three largest commercial banks--BNN, Banco Nicara-
guense (BANIC) and BAMER--and INFONAC together accounted for about 93 percent
of total FED operations. INFONAC and BNN, as noted earlier (para. 33), have
been absorbed into the new BDN. Because of the uncertainties prevalent in the
financial sector, only the three institutions, BDN, BANIC, and BAMER, would
be eligible initially to participate in the project. Despite the financial
difficulties confronting these institutions, they are considered suitable
as they all continue to have specialized units to handle FED operations and
all have retained sufficient qualified professional staff. Additional parti-
cipating financial institutions, and the terms and conditions of the subsidiary
agreements between FED and such institutions, would be subject to prior
approval of the Bank/IDA.
A.   The Agricultural Component
80.       The agricultural component would provide resources through partici-
pating institutions to reactivate production of crops and livestock for both
the domestic and export market as well as improve technical assistance delivery
capabilities of participating institutions. The main components of the
project would be:
(a) Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit Line (US$7.0 million). This
would finance short- and medium-term credits for: (i) medium-scale private
farming operations (para. 84); and (ii) crop and livestock activities on the
State controlled intensive, integrated farm enterprises currently managed by
AGROINRA (para. 45). It is envisaged that about US$2.0 million of this amount
would be utilized by medium-scale, private farmers and the balance of US$5.0
million for enterprises managed by AGROINRA. Credits would be to finance any
agricultural activity either for the domestic or the export market. It is
expected that about 80 percent of this line would be for short-term credit for
the production of annual crops and for maintenance of permanent crops. It
would finance the purchase of seeds and agrochemicals, and other seasonal
production costs. The remaining 20 percent would finance medium-term credit
to replace agricultural machinery and equipment, other on-farm investments,
and the rehabilitation of the livestock subsector, mainly commercial poultry
and pig production.
(b) FED Development Credit Line (US$7.5 million). A coffee renovation
program was initiated by FED in 1976 to finance the replacement of old, low
yielding coffee plantations by close-planted stands of high yielding varieties
requiring improved production practices. The program finances expenditures
related to the establishment of nurseries, maintenance expenditures during the
first three years of the plantation, machinery, equipment and other on-farm
investments related to coffee production and processing. Disbursements were



- 26 -
discontinued in June 1979 because of the war and, more recently, because of
the situation of the financial sector. The proceeds of the Bank Group lending
would provide long-term resources with which to resume disbursement of subloans
already committed under FED's Coffee Renovation Program and would finance
disbursement requirements under these subloans for the period October 15, 1979
to June 30, 1981. Overall, about 150 small-scale farms and 520 medium-scale
farmers, with a total area under coffee of 9,900 ha, are expected to benefit
from the project. The average size of the coffee plots under renovation is
about 14.8 ha; total subloan per sub-borrower averages US$32,740, or US$2,212
per ha.
(c) Technical Assistance (US$0.5 million). This would include:
(i) about 14 man-months of consultant services over
the disbursement period of the loan and credit to
provide assistance to BDN in the development of
agricultural credit policies and procedures and to
FED in financial and management matters (US$100,000);
(ii)  vehicles and equipment required to expand BDN and
FED technical assistance delivery capacity to
sub-borrowers. It is estimated that, in addition
to minor office equipment, 25 four-wheel vehicles
would be purchased (US$200,000); and
(iii) a livestock survey to be carried out by MIDA. This
would permit quick assessment of the impact of the
war on the livestock subsector, providing important
data on which to base the formulation of future
policies and assistance programs for the sector
(US$200,000).
Any funds in this category not committed within 6 months of effec-
tiveness would be reallocated automatically to the rehabilitation credit
line (Schedule 1, para. 5(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost and Financing
81.       The total cost of the component is estimated at US$18.9 million
equivalent, of which US$6.7 million equivalent (35%) represents the foreign
exchange cost. Given the emergency character of the loan/credit and the open
ended nature of the credit component, no provision has been made for price
contingencies. The average gross costs of consultants (para. 80(c) (i) above)
are estimated at about US$7,100 per man-month. This assumes that they will be
recruited from abroad; however, the Government believes that fully qualified
consultants can be found locally at lesser cost. If local consultants with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank/IDA are retained, unneeded funds would
be reallocated to the rehabilitation credit line (para. 80(c)). A breakdown
of project costs, and the financing and disbursement plans are presented in
the loan, credit and project summary at the beginning of this report.



- 27 -
82.       The proposed Bank Group financing of US$15 million equivalent (80%
of total project costs) would finance the estimated direct and indirect for-
eign exchange cost, US$6.7 million, and a further US$8.3 million of local
costs. Sub-borrowers and/or participating institutions would finance about
US$3.7 million or 19% of total project costs; the Government, through MIDA's
budget, would finance the balance of US$0.2 million (1% of total project
costs) associated with the technical assistance component of the project.
Local cost financing is justified for the reasons stated in paragraph 20
above. Retroactive financing for a maximum amount of US$1.5 million is recom-
mended to cover disbursements for project purposes made by FED from October
15, 1979 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
83.       The Bank Group funds would be reloaned by the Borrower to the FED
on the same terms as the Bank loan to the Borrower, except that the Borrower
would bear the exchange rate risk.
Lending Policies and Procedures
84.       Rehabilitation Line.  The subloan terms and repayment period would
follow BDN's general procedures for lending to medium-scale farmers, which
were reviewed by the mission and found to be satisfactory. For the purposes
of the project, a medium-scale farmer is defined as one who has gross farm
assets of more than US$50,000 equivalent, but not exceeding US$130,000 equiv-
alent. The subloan amounts and the repayment period for the sub-borrowers for
short-term credit are established on the basis of budgets for the particular
crop or livestock activities to be financed and the time of harvest and sale.
The standard costings are updated periodically to adjust for changes in the
cost-price situation of the agricultural sector and changes in technology.
The repayment period for medium-term credit is established in accordance with
the ability of the sub-borrowers to repay, as estimated on the basis of the
cash-flow projections of the sub-borrowers.
85.       It is envisaged that the subloan and repayment periods would fall
into two categories: (a) short-term credit for annual crop production or to
finance seasonal expenditures related to the maintenance of permanent crops
and livestock; and (b) medium-term credit for the purchases of machinery,
equipment, livestock and other on-farm investment.
86.       Given the nature of the project and the fact that resources under
this project would be utilized mainly to regain past levels of production,
there would be no limit to the total value of the subloan to any particular
sub-borrower. The maximum amount of the subloans would be equal to BDN's
standard unit budget multiplied by the number of units to be developed or
maintained. Interest on subloans would be payable at the end of each year
at the rate of 14 percent per annum 1/; however, the lending rate under this
1/   The real cost of borrowing based on these interest rates is unknown.
While consumer prices rose 28 percent between April 1978 and April 1979,
the price changes since then are unknown. Inflation, however, may have
decelerated because of the real income drop after May 1979, the currency
reduction of September, and prudent fiscal policies since (see discussion
in Part I above).



- 28 -
sub-component (and the FED credit line discussed below) may be modified
following consultation with the Bank to maintain consistency with the rates
set by the Central Bank for the agricultural sector. The Bank Group would
finance up to 80 percent of the total on farm investment included in the pro-
duction and/or investment plan. The difference, 20 percent, would be financed
by the participating institutions and by the sub-borrowers.
87.       Development Credit Line.  This component of the project would permit
the resumption of disbursements of subloans for long-term development plans
already committed by FED through eight participating institutions under the
ongoing Coffee Renovation Program. Lending under this program is supported by
technically and financially viable farm development plans, which have already
been evaluated by participating institutions in accordance with policies and
procedures established by FED and specified in the respective Subsidiary
Agreements between FED and each institution. Under these Agreements, the
participating institutions are responsible for (a) ensuring that the project
beneficiaries receive adequate technical assistance in preparing and supervis-
ing investment plans through either technical staff of the participating insti-
tutions or other technical assistance agencies; (b) providing additional short-
term funds as required by beneficiaries to complete their investment plans;
(c) approving or disapproving subloans; and (d) bearing the credit risk.
88.       For the purposes of the Coffee Renovation Program, a small-scale
farmer is defined as one who: (a) has a total area under coffee of less than
14 ha; and (b) derives most of his family income from coffee production. A
medium-scale producer is defined as a farmer who: (a) has more than 14 ha
under coffee; or (b) has less than 14 ha under coffee but derives most of his
family income from activities other than coffee production. The maximum area
under coffee renovation to be financed for an individual sub-borrower with
the proceeds of the Bank Group lending would be 70 ha.
89.       The lending terms and conditions for the two sub-components,
including the maximum percentage of the total value of the subloans to be
rediscounted to participating institutions, the repayment periods and rates
of interest, are summarized below:



- 29 -
Rehabilitation
Credit       Coffee Renovation Program
Small-scale   Medium-scale
Farmers        Farmers
Maximum % of total investment
to be financed or rediscounted
with the proceeds of the
Bank Group lending                      80.00         90.00           80.00
Rate of interest from the
borrower to FED                          7.95          7.95            7.95
Interest rate to participating
institutions                      9.00-11.00           7.00            8.25
Interest rate to sub-borrowers            14.00         10.00           11.00
Interest rate margin to
participating institutions         3.00-5.00           3.00            2.75
-       ------------- -(Years)-
Maximum Term (Years)
Rehabilitation Credit Line:
Short-term credit                        1.5
Medium-term credit                       5.0
Coffee Renovation Program:
Repayment period                          -            9.0             9.0
Grace period (included in
repayment period)                       -            4.0             4.0
Amounts repaid to the FED which are in excess of amounts needed to service
the FED's 20-year subsidiary loan from the Borrower would be used for addi-
tional lending for agriculture or industry. The Bank Group and the Borrower
would review the adequacy of the terms of relending of loan recuperations
and would agree to changes, if necessary, no later than three years after
signing (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
90.       The farm expenditures which would be incurred throughout Nicaragua
over a one and one-half year investment period would be varied and are not
suitable for procurement through competitive bidding. Therefore, sub-borrowers
would purchase their requirements through established local commercial channels,
which are adequately competitive. Wherever an individual order for goods or
services (other than consultant services) to be procured is expected by the
participating institution to exceed the equivalent of US$50,000, price quota-
tions would be required from at least three local suppliers, and confirmation



- 30 -
of the order would require the prior approval of the participating institution
making the subloan (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Vehicles,
estimated to cost a total US$175,000, required for FED and BDN would be
procured, in group orders, during the first year of the project following the
receipt of price quotations from at least three suppliers.
Disbursements
91.       The Bank group would disburse over one and one-half years:  (a) 80%
of the total investment or seasonal credits, such total to include the contri-
bution of the sub-borrower and amounts previously disbursed by participating
institutions for agricultural subloans; (b) 100% of the cost of consultant
services, for a total value of US$100,000; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported vehicles and equipment and 80% of local expenditures for
locally procured vehicles and equipment; and (d) 50% of the total expenditures
for the livestock survey.
92.       The Bank Group would reimburse through a revolving fund to be estab-
lished in CB for FED as a separate account for lending under both the agricul-
tural and industrial components. The initial Bank Group disbursement to the
revolving fund would be the equivalent of US$3.0 million, the estimated amount
of funds required for local expenditures for the project during the first three
to four months of its implementation. The first Bank Group disbursement would
be subject to receipt of documentation indicating that a special account for
the revolving fund has been established by FED; and subsequent Bank disburse-
ments to the revolving fund would be made against statements of expenditures
certified by FED for the credit program (Section 2.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Supporting documentation for expenditures under the credit
program would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by FED for
review during the course of Bank supervision missions. All other disburse-
ments would be supported by standard documentation. FED would, until comple-
tion of the project, maintain separate subaccounts for agricultural and
industrial lending, and use all amounts received from project beneficiaries
which are not needed for payment of principal, interest and other charges on
the sub-loan from the Borrower, for additional agricultural and industrial
lending.
Project Implementation, Organization and Management
93.       The project funds would be administered by the Agricultural Project
Unit already established within FED under Loan 943-NI (Agricultural Credit
Project) and which is continuing to function in a fully satisfactory manner.
It is envisaged that most of the funds for the Rehabilitation Credit Line
(US$7 million equivalent) would be rediscounted by FED and be onlent to project
beneficiaries through the Agricultural and Livestock Credit Department of BDN.
Funds for the Coffee Renovation Program (US$7.5 million) would be rediscounted
by FED through participating financial institutions with which FED has Subsi-
diary Agreements. Conditions for disbursement of Bank Group funds to be redis-
counted by FED to each participating institutions other than BDN, BAMER or
BANIC (para. 79) would be that the institution meets the eligibility criteria
agreed with the Bank Group (Section 1.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) and that the Bank Group has received and found satisfactory the
Subsidiary Agreement with the institution including the relevant changes in



- 31 -
lending terms and conditions to conform them to those agreed for this project
(Schedule 1, para. 4 (iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
94.       FED, through its Agricultural Project Unit, would be responsible
for: (a) the administration of the project; (b) training staff of participat-
ing institutions; (c) monitoring the progress of the project; and (d) preparing
quarterly progress reports on project implementation along the lines of those
it submitted for Loan 943-NI, and submitting them to the Bank no later than
two months after the end of each quarter (Section 2.03 of the draft Project
Agreement). The progress reports would include the results of the regular
monitoring of the project to be undertaken by FED and periodic evaluations of
the success of the project in achieving its initial objectives.
95.        FED would maintain separate accounts, in accordance with accounting
principles consistently applied, for each sub-component of the project under
which participating institutions would rediscount the amounts previously dis-
bursed to farmers. The project accounts and related financial statements
would be audited annually in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited comparative
financial statements and notes prepared from the project accounting records
of FED would include the balance sheet, a statement of income and expenses,
and a statement of the source and application of funds, together with the
opinion of the auditors. Supplementary data on operations, financial position
and scope of work carried out by the auditors and such other additional inform-
ation as the Bank might from time to time reasonably request would also be
provided. All audit reports and statements would be submitted to the Bank
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
96.        FED would be responsible for preparing terms of reference for engag-
ing consultants and bidding documents for the purchase of vehicles and equip-
ment. The terms of reference for the consultants would be submitted to the
Bank for approval no later than February 29, 1980, and consultants with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank Group, would be appointed by FED by
April 30, 1980 (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). It is envisaged
that nine of the 25 four-wheel vehicles to be purchased under the project
would replace the FED Agricultural Project Unit's existing vehicles and the
balance would increase BND's capacity to provide technical assistance.
97.        The US$200,000 equivalent of Bank Group funds for the livestock
survey would be transferred by the Borrower to MIDA. A detailed budget and
timetable for the implementation of the survey would be submitted by MIDA,
through FED, for Bank approval not later than March 31, 1980 (Section 2.08 of
the draft Project Agreement). The appointment of the consultants, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group, and receipt by the Bank Group
of a detailed budget for carrying out the livestock survey, including evidence
of the availability of adequate counterpart funds and a timetable for the
implementation of the study, would be conditions of disbursement of the
respective technical assistance components (Schedule 1, paras. (ii) and (iii)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 32 -
B.   Industrial Component
98..      The industrial component would provide US$15 million though partici-
pating institutions, which together with US$30 million provided by the IDB,
would support Government priorities for the initial reconstruction of the
industrial sector. Eligible projects would be those for the rehabilitation
of existing industrial enterprises, including those in the construction and
construction materials subsectors, of either public or private ownership.
Most of the funds for subloans would be used to finance the cost of goods and
services for the repair or replacement of fixed installations, and also to
finance the cost of goods and services for current production, but excluding
inputs related to the production of goods, such as fertilizers, for which
sales would be financed by the agricultural credit component. Similarly,
financing for the construction industry would be restricted to the repair and
replacement of fixed installations.
Cost and Financing
99.       The total cost of the industrial component is estimated at US$18.8
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component is US$13.8 million
equivalent (71 percent). The Bank Group would finance all foreign costs plus
US$1.2 million of local costs. The balance of local cost financing would be
provided by participating financial intermediaries and sub-borrowers. Local
cost financing is justified for the reasons stated in paragraph 20 above. The
Borrower would relend the proceeds of the loan/credit to the FED on the same
terms as the Bank loan to the Borrower, except that the Borrower would bear
the exchange rate risk. The proposed use of a revolving fund is explained in
para. 92 above.
Lending Policies and Procedures
100.      Rehabilitation costs eligible for subloan financing would include
all investment and costs related to fixed installations and current production
necessary to restore previously existing productive capacity exclusive of
any refinancing. In their appraisals, participating financial intermediaries
would demonstrate that the proposed industrial sub-borrowers had previously
operated as financially viable enterprises whose need for rehabilitation
was a result of the recent hostilities, and they would provide sufficient data
to enable the FED to allocate its resources according to the Government's
priorities. Furthermore, the appraisals submitted by the participating inter-
mediaries would evaluate the technical feasibility of rehabilitating the
enterprise, the capability of its current management, and the prospects for
marketing its products. Because of the emergency nature of the proposed
industrial credit line and the widespread decapitalization of industrial
enterprises, no minimum capitalization requirement for sub-borrowers would
be established; however, in the event that total outstanding debt exceeds
90 percent of the real value of total assets, a specific plan for recapital-
ization of the enterprise would be submitted.
101.      Subloans for the financing of working capital would have final
maturities of up to five years and, for repair or replacement of fixed in-
stallations, of up to 15 years, including 3 years grace. Interest charged
to sub-borrowers would be 15 percent per annum which is in line with current



- 33 -
Central Bank regulations for loans to industry. 1/ The interest rate to
-sub-borrowers under this component could be changed with the approval of the
Bank Group. The FED would charge an interest rate to participating financial
intermediaries of from 9 percent up to 12 percent depending on the amount of
the participating institution's counterpart contribution (as provided in FED's
operating policies). Under this arrangement, both the FED and the participat-
ing institution would be assured of receiving an adequate interest rate differ-
ential. The FED would review all subproject appraisals submitted by financial
intermediaries and would have a free limit of US$500,000 for all financing to
any one firm. Financing requests in excess of this limit would require Bank
approval. The maximum amount of Bank funds that would be reloaned to any one
firm would be US$2.5 million. Arrangements for relending of sub-loan recuper-
ations and for reviewing the terms of such relending would be the same as for
the agricultural component (see para. 89 above).
Procurement and Disbursement
102.      Procurement and disbursement procedures would follow the standard
practice for IDF lending in principle, but allow for bulk purchases of imported
inputs. Disbursements are expected to be completed in one and one-half years.
Whenever an individual order for goods or services (other than consultants'
services) is expected by the participating institution to exceed the equival-
ent of US$50,000, price quotations would be required from at least three local
suppliers, and final placement of the order would require the prior approval
of the participating institution making the subloan. The FED would monitor
the financial intermediaries' application of these procedures. The Bank would
reimburse the FED through the revolving fund described in para. 92 above for
100 percent of disbursements for subloans, subject to a limit of 80 percent
of the total cost of rehabilitation of the borrowing enterprise. Retroactive
financing not exceeding US$1.5 million would be allowed to cover expenditures
incurred after October 15, 1979.
Project Implementation, Organization and Management
103.      The project funds would be administered by the Industrial Projects
Department (IDP) of the FED which continues to function in a satisfactory
manner. Conditions for disbursement of Bank Group funds to be rediscounted
by FED to each participating institution other than BDN, BAMER and BANIC
would be that the institution meets the eligibility criteria agreed with the
Bank Group (Section 1.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and
that the Bank Group has received and found satisfactory the Subsidiary Agreement
with such institution (Schedule 1, para. 4 (iv) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
1/   The real cost of borrowing based on these interest rates is unknown.
While consumer prices rose 28 percent between April 1978 and April 1979,
the price changes since then are unknown. Inflation, however, may have
decelerated because of the real income drop after May 1979, the currency
reduction of September, and prudent fiscal policies since (see discus-
sion in Part I above).



- 34 -
104.      FED, through IDP, would have substantially the same responsibilities
for project administration, training monitoring, progress reporting, account-
ing, and arranging audits as it would (through ADP) for the agricultural
component (see paras. 94-95 above).
Project Risks
105.      The main risk associated with the agricultural component is the
possibility of inefficient operation of the intensive, integrated farm enter-
prises managed by INRA in which some organizational and labor problems may
arise. This risk is lessened, however, by the fact that the new Government,
well aware of the importance of these enterprises, has taken important steps
to assure a smooth transition from private to state ownership. Except for
replacing first-in-line managers with qualified professionals, staff and organ-
ization of these enterprises remain as under the former owners. There is a
strong demand for short- and medium-term resources, and BDN, although a new
institution, has retained the institutional structure and many of the staff
of the FED and of BNN both in the central and branch offices. The project has
been formulated, and would be implemented within, the context of a series of
measures concerning agrarian reform, agricultural commodities prices and
marketing policies and institutional reorganization of the Agricultural Public
Sector, all still in the process of definition. Therefore, the main risk for
long-term, on-farm development lending is associated with future Government
policies for the agricultural sector, especially those affecting land tenure,
which may affect negatively producers' attitudes towards long-term investment.
Nonetheless, this risk has been taken into account by including in the project
for long-term lending only the ongoing coffee renovation program, which, in
addition to dealing with a commodity of high Government priority, involves
only investment plans already underway and unlikely to be discontinued by
producers. Furthermore, the proposed long-term lending would finance only
commitments to small- and medium-scale farmers, which may not be affected by
uncertainties pertaining to future agrarian reform policies. The proposed
industrial rehabilitation component is designed to reduce to a minimum accept-
able level the substantial risks inherent in lending in a war-torn economy.
First, because of the urgency of the need to restore production, the use of
Bank funds would be limited to financing those enterprises capable of rapid
resumption of normal production, which in itself provides assurance of the
means of repayment. Second, Bank funds will be channelled only to those firms
that can demonstrate a history of successful operations, which increases the
probability of lending to sub-borrowing enterprises likely to succeed. Last,
the proposed loan component will be channelled through the FED, an adminis-
trative unit with the capability of ensuring that Bank funds are used for
sound, productive investment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
106.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Nicaragua and the
Bank, the draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Nicaragua and IDA,
the draft Project Agreement between BDN, representing FED and IDA, the Report



- 35 -
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, respectively, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The most important features and special
conditions of the loan and credit agreements have been included in Part IV
and are summarized in Section III of Annex III of this report.
107.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association. Special condi-
tions of disbursements are: (i) except for three prequalified participating
institutions terms and conditions of subsidiary agreements between FED and
such intermediaries will be subject to prior approval by the Bank/IDA; (ii)
the establishment of a special account (revolving fund) in the Central Bank
for FED); and (iii) for the applicable technical assistance component, the
appointment of consultants, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
Group, and receipt of a detailed budget for carrying out the livestock survey,
including evidence of the availability of adequate counterpart funds and a
timetable for the implementation of the study.
PART VI - RECOM?NENDATION
108.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 29, 1979



ANnEX I
TAlEc 36                                            Page 1 of 8
Hl;ARP    - (iix02L tHI3CATORS 74 SHEET
REFERENCE GROCPS (_CAUSTEZ AVFRACES                -  36  -
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. K.4.)                    NIClfACU"A                       -  OST   5-ECAT E          2E(                                         I
TOTAL'            L30.0                                                       SANEM       ,A220      qEXT, 41CHER
ACRIC'JLTUR.AL     48.9                                   sOST RECENT      CEDCRAPHIC    INCCIE        INCOME
1960  'b    I973 'b CS3-A-!  b          REGION       G OROUP /d    CROUP ',
CYF PER CAPFtA (US9)                    250.0        410.0     57a.0 -          1124.4      1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY *0US;6?Tt0t   PEI P-TA?t
1LXLA.67S OF 0CAL E3ULVALEN't)       174.0        .18.0      478.7            943.1        730.7       lf46.7
POP'lr.._:1'7 .'ID V :-.U STAT7S-7CS
P.FtLAT2J, M.D-YE!A. (MILL;:6S)         1.4          1.9       2,4
UIRAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.4            47.2      50.2              59.3        49.0         51.2
PVPTIJTItC   PCTlONt..fS
POiPULATION ITNAR 2000 (4ILLICNS)                            5.0
STAT:CNART PQP.tATIC9 (MILLiONS)                             9.0
YEU  STATIONARY PPULAICMN  ;S  ACLED                      21tO
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. ICI.                        11.0         15.0       18.0             23.5        44.6          28.2
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULflIRAL LAOD      30.0         39.0       49.0             80.5       140.7         LO.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YTIS.                          47.8         48.6       *8.4             40.9         41.3         35.4
15-64 TRS.                           49.7         49.0       49.2              54.4        55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.5          2.4        2.4               3.9         3.5          5.1
POPULATION CR031T RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.9          3.0        3.3               2.4         2.4          1.7
UIIRAII                              4.2          4.2        4.5               3.7        4.5           3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THCUSAND)       51.0          49.3      45.0              32.8        31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER -iOUSAND)        19.0         16.8       13.0              8.5         9.2          9.1
CROSS REFROSUCTION RATE                2.3          3.3        3.3               2.4         2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNA.IL (THOUSANDS)        ..         10.1       15.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED UC!IS3    ..             ..       19.0              17.7       34.7
-OOD AMND NUTR:-EON
tINDEX OF rOCD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71100)            81.8        100.0      105.0             99.4       104.4         102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
-E QUIREMNTS)                     93.0        106.0      106.0            107.0       105.0         120.8
PROTEINS (C2AMS PER DAT)            58.0         70.0       68.0             60.4        64.4          80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         38.0         33.0       30.0             28.3        23.5          31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NORTALITY RATE       30.0           ..       37.0               6.7         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    67.0           50.4       55.0             63.6         60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY LATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..       122.0         ..              76.1        46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCE.NT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       70.0             63.4        60.8          69.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..      lOO.O              79.5        75.7         85.1
aU RAL                                ..           ..       34.0             38.6        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXcRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..             58.8        46.0          70.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             77.3        46.0          d8.3
RURAL                                 ..          8.0       24.0             24.5         22.5        33.2
POPULATION  '!R PSYtC7A2            2700.0       2060.31t  154.0.0           141.9      2262.4        1343.2
PO3PLATIOb PER 73URSINC PEtSON           ..      4860.0      760.0            933.7      1195.4         765.0
POPULAT:3N ?R HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                              440.0        410.0      400.0            563.4       M53.4         197.6
R2BAY                                 ..        220.0      220.0            279.4       253.1        260.2
RURAL                                  ..      2310.0         ..           1140.9      2732.4       1055.0
.AD1tSStCNS PER iOSP-TAL SED             ..           ..        ..              25.7        22.1         17.3
OC'S :NC
AV 91ACE SIZE OF :SOUSEHOLD
OTA6.                                             ..         ..               5.2        5.3    .       .7
.7RB6 .A. -                                                       *.8                      5.2          S.S
RL'RAL                               6.35J          ..        ..               5.3         5.4          5.l
AVERACE AL"3ER .F P.RSONS ?El RtCO
TOTA~L                               z.S z        2.9         ..               1.3         16           1[.1
URBAAN                               2.24           ..        ..               1.3         l.6          l.2
RC1AL                                3.2j           ..        ..               1.5         2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO -LEC-RtIC-Y (PERCENT
37 :4LLiICS)
ITAL                                33.0         41.3         ..              54.3        50.3         D.0
ARSAN                               71.3         76.7         ..              80.1        71.7         85.1
'-RAAL                               4.0          7.J         ..              4._        ...3
1/ Atlas basis in US dollars of 1978, but for 1979 GNP.  This estimnate of a
recent Bank mission differs considerably from the riost recent AItlas estimate
Of $81TO, which was for 1978 GNP, before output droppecd considerably as a
result of the revolution and the Cordoba wans dev'llfue.  by 43 percent.



37 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page  2 of 8
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
NICARAGiUA                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEYT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION ic   GROUP id   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        83.0      85.0            107.3      102.5       101.7
MALE                 65.0        82.0      83.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
FEMALE               66.0        84.0      86.0            107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  7.0        18.0      21.0             40.5       33.5        51.2
MALE                  9.0        19.0      21.0             40.4       38.4        56.4
FEMALE                6.0        17.0      20.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 24.0          9.0       9.0             18.5       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACIIER RATIO
PRIMARY                           35.0        39.0        ..             37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         13.0        26.0        ..             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        53.0       57.0            77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUIIPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        17.1J     16.(            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        53.0        55.0      60.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        28.0      36.0            67.9        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        28.0      26.0             76.1       40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNIJAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         ..        ..              4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      430.0       550.0    6601.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 17.1        20.3       !1.3           21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.3        51.3      44.0             30.2       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                16.0        15.5      14.0            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.0        30.0      29.8             30.9       33.5        33.8
rMALE                               51.7        48.4      47.3             47.3       48.0        51.3
FEMIALE                             10.5        12.0       12.6            13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.8        1.7             1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOrlE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF IIOUSEHOLDS    ..        42.4/h      ..             23.7       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        65.47K      ..             58.7       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.1th       ..             2.9        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         8.77h       ..             9.9       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LFVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     250.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      175.0           185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     351.0           396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      147.0           308.1      248.9       403.4
ESTIMtATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      19.0             35.2       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      27.0            46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the
extreme values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 6 Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  If  Registered, not all practising in the country;
/g  1963;  /b Rural population only.
August, 1979



- 38-                                                               ANNEXL
Drsr  or PWThL wicamse                                                       Page  3 of 8
Notes: Althouh the data are drs-  fro    -res generally Juigd the meet  sthoritati    an  reliable, It should els  be noted that they es Oct be  oera
tic..sily comparable   -ots  of the lack of stssdadiaed deinition   sad osnosyt  sem  by duffeat comtrine in  cio tls bb  data.The datae,nnehls
use ful to describe .order  of magitode, iodiote trends, and oharactrise estlal  Mor differencs btneen coutries.
The adjusted cros  averae   for eachiodio-tor ar  ppstlatin-eighte  geometric   en,esld    the sotrem   clues of the  indictor and the nst poplated
outry in eah grop   To to  ko of data, grop accrues of all indicatror  for Capita  SMu.p Oil txportrseaso  of Iindiators of Access to Water sodE hreto
Diep.eal, Hosiog, i-cn  listrihbtioc and Povety for other osotep grops are pepnatiso-eelghted geometric men  sithout ...lusion of the eotren  Values nod
the most populated c..-try.  Sic-h oerg   foutiss ann  the Indistr  Scpeds -n aailabillt  of da,ta  n   isntsfr    eoto  matbe soeroised
lo_reatingavengs_of_ne i-dicto_o_nohr.  Mhs   vrgsaemel   efL as aepro-atiose  ofr noce    ausvs .                                 oeceingthet      le  ofrn
lod.atr at o time amon  th   -utry and reerne  sn..
LAND AREA (th..ssc sdq.hm.(                                                               Acstohto    o P14.itncea LSIs n of               tlalton     ttl,uic    d  ua
N-=   Ttotal  trface ara      1cyib        ad ares sod inland eaters.                       Ester ofpeol  (toal  'Ibe.  sadRurlMevdb   ort ipsla
deri`--ltors  - 1Oost reet estisate of  wegrcltorl are .ae  teqpraily                    percetage  of their repective pow"ltbons. berets disp..1osa   myincise
or ptermnetly fr- crops, pstorecs  sekht sad kitchn gardens or to                       tho  -o1letico end disposal1, nith or sithust treatmet, of home - serte
lie foal1o                                                                              ned  uate-ea.ter by entcr-horn  systa   or the seIf pIt prides end s-i1a
GNP' PER CAPITA (pu4( - NPPper capita estimate  at oret maket prices                      Pj~      =e n W              - Ppsuatico dieided by cober of practicieg physicians
ealcolnted byenIcIocr ice nothd soW- Bir.*PAst lon  (1976-78 basis);                     ri1lidN4i5dcn   school an university leve.
1960, 1970, sod 1978 into.                                                              poua        nrhrigPerson - Ppyniato  divided by  -sbec of practicing male
k1flY C2dSUMtPTION5 PER CdPITA - dAon. -1 ompIcof co.           rca  recy- Wagautenre,prmti.al eces,ad nisist neursen
Ihernl  ieletricity) io bilgcran   of col coeintper e.Peit.; 1960                         ndrss.dvddb   hi  epciv    se    fhsia   esaalbei
1970, nod 1976 Into,                                                                      public sod private geara  and spioSliced hostpitm1 sod rehbhilit.tin center.
Hospitals are establisihsete permnetly otaffed by at least one physIicin
POP0IATION IID VI TAiL STATSITICS Iotabliobmeto p-oidiMo  principally vootodhl oar  oe  no t iocldsd.  uralI
T.%7io.  t..  d-Y-5   (uiit)- An of .ioly 1; 1960, 1970, and                              hospitals, ho-evr, include health nod eedicI1 cet-rnoct p-oraactly started
197I ato.                                                                               by_a physician (but by a medical ncaietat, cure, midife, etc.) shich offer
Urban R t,,,tio  (cop             otl  - Rntit of urban to total p.pulatico;              In-ptient  -e dati-n  ad proide a Iimitod rongo of medical failitie..
differot defcitloo    of -a  orono  ap offeet comparbility of data              Admisson   -pelapitml med - Total. nuber of  dmiosions to or dincharge  from
sang cooctries; i9I1 17, sod 1975 dai.                                            hnitl  divide  by the este   of hedo.
popola 100t  Prtoicotlo-oc..   I                                              HUS
19 tota         ation by ag  end nec tnd their mortality sod fertility              Average lieo oshold (eno  pe   oohl) -ttal, urban  no -er   -
rate..  Pro-jetio  psesmte-  frmtaity rates  nern  of thre                           A telcehld cnIst   facoyo   oiiul .                      hr   ooqstr   n
levelo asuin'ife co-onoy 't hirth in-eniag oth  -cutryn                               their nU   ab   A hoader or lodger any or asp .ct ho i-eicici inthe
per onpit  jocos  level, ad freale lif e.cpeotany stbillisig at                          neoifrsastical puposes.
77.. yern   TheP p -nsie   for  fetlltlty rate  I-n h..ve three In..ea          Aveag  number of  -ean  P., room- totl ura, nt               url-horg  nme
asolg, deline inf-rtiliy accoding to Ices leve  and put                              of Persons per roo  is al urban- a   ua  occpid  onocl onI.1 deelliosic
Vanily olnoioc p-rf=ro. tEch country In then  -nig-ed on  of these                    repectively.  Deelliago eolde nom-poesoet st-tures and u-ocoPIelP poto.
.1ce ocebinutions of motality nod fertility t-ods for projeotice                    A,,e,s te EleatrCiet  (ceoet ogf deF-lino)- total, urban.an  rura.              Cn
porp-ec.                                                                              chionliela             iheetiity  ho livig qunee-  .s percentag  of
Iotlocory pooolotioo  - c n Itoti-oor  Ppop,Iatbocl ehre Iboo g-oth                     total, urban, and rura  dl1iago  respeoticely.
o  toe  boirtb rat  i  eq,al to the death rate, mod  I-c the sge
ortrere_inI.c...tnot. Thin is  _hblecd only after fcrtiliiy rntee            EDLATlILS
decline to tho repl-eeoet Ierel of unit net rcprodcti-c rate, oh.n                 Adjuteddarl n            Iauc
esbgetealo    f                            thorpsocitcf tccly.j The stationar  pope- Piesah    - ttl   ae&:and femaledros  tota, sae se  female enrll
IntLo  dc  cooI en mtd on the  IoncL fth   roeted ohaste-lstics                         mt ofrl ae  atthe. Primr  leve  no pectages of  -eprotive primary
of te popoln.io  Icthe -er2000, no  the rote ofdecline of fertility                    school-age pop.utions; noraly inc.ludes childre  aged 6.-ii yero hut
rote to repl-cmot lecel.                                                                 djuoted for diff-eret lengtho of pimey education) ice c-tric. nith;
ic-oitionory !coolation is rewohec - The y-nr eho  stotiocr  popultico                    _niversal education enroiet may ncoed 100 pereetolc   scm  pu pils
nic Ins  eeraced,                                                                       are  1le  or sbce the official schol age.
..cunto    ieoty                                                                  Ieodr  oh.-total, mae  n  f=se - Cmpted1  1.;  oolr
Pee ~e  h..   Mid-poor populntioc per oqunc  kilomter (ill hecIsres) of                   eduoticrqirsa   eatfu  yearsoapproe..d pr Ir i,oroII-;
total  er                                                                               provides   . -enr1  -ctional, or teacher trainingtocot,o    ir pqiopo
Per 00. ho.%Zgic-ltucl bood - Conpoted no nb-  foe agricultorol land                      un_lly of 12 to 17 year  cI sge; ooeresoood.nenoIccrn     -r e,v vrolly
only.                                                                                   -oolded.
rpobotic   -g.tucue(prct  - Childre  (0-14 yean)   VohigagItotional  -necle-t (ocre-t of nocod. o  - Vocation..l i-Lciotoooin.  iode
(1-ti  eao)  nod retird65 Yene  sd ove) no P.reis    of ndd-year                         tebod.loa, loduotrial, orothee Progamyhi)           Pencldeocnyoro
roclto;1960, 1970, and 1977 datb.                                                   depa-t.st  of oroodery icatituti-n.
ioolt.o Gr-thb Onte (pr t) - total - Anno.1 cronhrn.toe of total mid-                 lpoll-tahereio-o             rtnd  eodr      T          talnidnto  eclIodi
yer  oplti..s for 190h,19-0   o   907.primeyadsonaylvlsdvddb   uhr       tshr   stecro
Ponultlo7 Iroh Rate (ret)1 - ubu               - IAna gronth etes of urbn                   ln ionig ineels.Z    P
poooIcn   for 19906,  91-1  no  197_75.                                            Ad- ierc   ae             rot) -ltrate ado1to  (ble to ren  nod onto) e
erode Birth ibi oroocad      ooa   ivettho  per thoosand of old-                               percetage of total adult popelatioc agd 15 y-ar  an  Ieer
yea  PpoLsIntico4; 160  197, ed 1977 dato.
erode frothitepr t                  Aonoo) - In deatho per thcuonod  i  id-yoar       fOllBlIPT sC
poroltico; 1991, 1970, end 1977 dnto.                                                 Pa-oge   ac   Per thounsed popuation2a          aone   a   cqrn    .,ecr
Iros R-ed-tion Rate - Aor-g  ounber ofoohcooos    iita                                  ot Iinleon than egt per..n..   cludec nehlance, hearses and eliutay
ivho -o i-vpr-ductio I     i.d0 if  hc  -operi-cec peoet-c-ohiIle..
pcIficfrtIlity rates; ....ally fic-yenr  -cenge  ending ic l961,                 Radio iisc1rcr  (pe  _thoocad ponltico) - All typ so           -rcicere  c- Iolic
iWOd, sod 1975.                                                                         beocos  ogcrs  pbic Per tho..ssrd of P.plte;ccudsolono
PseilyIlsonig - AccctorcO-toco  (thoosudo) -,A dovoolcuhe  of                     reeier  in countries nod ices -  when eogiotrnioto`of; mu,ctssu  in
oeprochith-_cotro    cie   ndrnoie  ofInatica  fonlffoot; dmfor reeo  Yenr   a  o   ecnooi   ic 
placolog program.                                                 sio~~~~~~b.lshed licreig.
,.,,lY els-cb" - Uno-  (percet o,f married 00c)-iPcroontagv of  -uriod                  TV  oeiro(per thonoad oPultioc) - TV  eccr  for brondoo "to gecer.
occ  o   hild-hearIng age  15-64yas b  mot bith-cotrol d-oi-e                      public per- thsedpoyqlnion; celu.de  ooi-eoed To recicrs  in -outee-
to nil on rey doe              m tn   o  groop.                                         nod In year  sho  rogistrtton of TVst           ino  ceffect
FWII AND NUTRITION                                                               lll~~~~~~~~~csl.se  C rcltatio  (pr.thousandp!:glatice) - lhonn the  -cerag   ocoaico
Indcc of Foo-Fd -ti.docobo   Io CaIt., (1-99-71-420) - mdcc of Poer cpito                 dooted priasely to  ecr.dinggerasos    It i c isderd no be 'daily
"oool prodootion of all foo  _o ditien  Prvd-ctiooeoldrs coed sod                       if 00 onpe-r  oh leant four timenac-eet.
feed nod II ocoedec yeor basis.  Cosmditiic 000cr primay g-odo                        Cinem  A .n.l Anteodoco o   CaPit.  -e  tea- - 1ced -n th  number of tirbcts
(r .    ...ac.. inctend If o-g-e) chih ar  edible nod contaloostrivots              told duIng the  er         loding  diiost rie-ccnmandwhe
(o.cffec od ten  -r e-oIsded).  Aggregote production of each .-toory                iotc.t.d -i                                                     -        -bl
Is booed I. catioa ..cer...ge produc erpice ceghts.
Per onplt.  -oyl of coo c(ceoexc. of  -cotrMont) - Conpoted f-o                      50   Rf
enry  qiralot  f itn food copplico n-i bOle to Ic...try per capito           "Tctol? rao  Force (thosnands)  .- Ponoic-ly  oIce pe-o-n, i-cbding  -rmd
Per dyp.  hnilbole oupplie  con ~eit  do-tic production, imports l-n                  fcro    an -ueployed hut eccioding hceenco  odonts, etc. leficiti --0
-pottt, sod. ohongo  10 otoo.  Oct -ppic  oclde eninn  feed, oedc,                    inrrououti                   t r   o  comparoblo.
quacItIv_o-cdi  food pro-c-obg, nod Inoec in,diitrIbution. HeqoIr-                  Pemaee...ct) -  eal  abr1           ocen  percetags of otal labor force.
-et   cor tiond b  Pi -lcd cc pboiologic-l c-do  o  no.ris --                          r     .      -t _Lbo  foc  l nri    fo eutry, hunting and
coicity tod health  c-id-rio, code  -metoI teepe-ntu-, hodp nighto,                 fishing an percentageIof total 1nb- fcroe.
ego nodco   oltrhoin            popootit, sod olicatg 10 p-rort foe                 Indostro (percent) - Lab-  force in mining, ocorolc            ,seifaturlag ene
ancen    ho -Ilod lecci                                                          elcetrIcy    ne   n   n   spleretag  of toollaorfoce
Per -ndIa noppy of neot-  (gras Per day) - ProtLeocontoti  C per                      PrlleinRt  pret     total  macI end female - Paticiaino
Iapito net nupply of food per dyp. get -opply of  ood isdiodoJ.vt  rtsaecmue   ntaa,ml,adfml  Inorfoeenpe-
nioe. Roqoiree-ooto for all.. cstrics rItshlios  by lIEA pr de for a                  octago  of total, sale and femle populati   of ni  eersPecivly
eliMon alonoeo  60 g-an  of toto1 proteIc Per dy and 20 gesm  of                      i960, 1970, end 1975 dota.  Thes  ar  IL's  participoton rate  reflecing
anmlnd pus   rtei, of ohiol 10 ger-   ho-Id be aniss  protein.                    ag-oe   ot-otue of the ppultico  and lag time tred.  A few entiates
TeVe Loandad    P' lse  then thos  of 75 grse  of total protein and                  ore from otioslsorcn
21 gremot7 ofunc ,roto I se   vrg  fetesed  proposd by PAO                          fromaic S.-eomdnc Patio -  Rotio of poplotlc under 19 nd 65 and ovrto
it the Thied Wcrid FI0cd OUOO.-.                                                      the lnbcr force So age group of 15-64  eao
Pee ccpinn peotric oui  frsoimled oolsc - Proteio sopply, of food
Child (ag- 1-4) Motolitty Rate  -ctcond(-Z  A.o-n  dantho pee thoonnd                   Pnromtnac of Private 2com  (hoth bo -an  and hind) - enoet-d by ninh.nt
it age cgoop 1-4 pao  to obild... In thin  m ego  cpi for mot level-                    1 percent  rihs     -0pret, porest 20 percent, and poorest Po0 pe-entn
ocin,c  c-otricIt ct  ovi--d fr-  life tohlIco.                                         of ho-cehblde.
RALTif                                                                                  Povovf TARGET GROUP'S
Life bopctuc ut Birtb (0000  - Ac--ge noml- of yearn of life                           ih-timatrd Aboolote P.,ertp iccoar LEve I  siS cr vspito( - urban and r-rl-
renelcing  at  Irt;19,17,sd 1977. loon.                                            Absolict poverty inom  lee  So thotbicm ee   elen ehich aana
infant Ieority2t  Zot  (ectuso)- A-Ioo  deoth  of infntn under on                         otritional ly odquate diet piuc-       enia  to-food requiremets Is sot
pra  of age per th-oond hoc hirtho.                                                     affordble.
Acoeni:~ to Safe Vao   ceoo   f ooolntio) - total urban, ndcrl-                         Estimated Relotire  asty loom  leve  (L5$ phcr cocit:) - urban   d rurl1
IT-acer of pepe(o-,ohn   oMel   ih  ocobcacs   oMrlriter  oet  inome leo   is one-thr  ofovrae per -spita
o-fe  -otreopply (includro treted oorfae satero or unt-oted hot                         persna  Iurom   of the  oetry. Urban IZleoi i  derico.d fro  the rura  Icee
on-ooinsi-tdo-t-roo.hno  that from protected hoebolen, opei                             oith edjusteort for highe  cot ofItign uban aoe..
sod  -nitne  clsnoPeoentage  of their reopectOc- popolatio Inol                       PEtimted Pwplatico Pelom AbsoIlot  Povety I-on   Leni (perect)    ra  and
-oocnob   cn   public foctalo or stsdpost located not mer thuo                          scoal - Pect of ppopltioo )orbu  and rura) ch. ar  'absoiicpor
200 ertee  fo  a  oue ray he  ooiderd as being cithoi  reaonble
soceoc of toot house.  In cora  areas  --bole no.s  cou..ld imply
that the hoocenife or mehers of the household do cot boos to Spendi a                                                          Ronol  sod Soci.l Data hicisio
diop-opo- ote-t  port of' the dsp In fetching the f.edly. ..ater ...edm                                                   E-oodm  eA-lysis mod P-ojecti-n  Separet
AugiOt 1979



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
- 39-
ECONOMIC DEVELOPKENT/DATA SHEET
Actual                      Estimated                      Projected
1975     1976        i977       1978                1979                    1980         1981
A. National Accounts
(Mil.US$ at 1978 prices)
1. GDP                    2,122.6   2,239.8   2,362.3   2,171.8                1,591.5                 1,876.9       2,A36.2
2. Gains from TT.            -39.8     +94.8      +43.7       -                  -58.8                   -77.9        -102.8
3. Gross Dom.Income       2,082.8   2,334.6   2,406.0   2,171.8                1;532.7                 1,799.0       2,033.4
4. Imports                   828.4     854.3      918.4      686.0               508.1                   672.5         777.4
5. Exports-Volume            665.5     756.3      757.7      758.0               642.7                   594.7         758.3
6. Exports-TT. Adj.          625.7     851.1      801.4      758.0               583.9                   516.8         655.5
7. Resource, Gap-TT adj.   202.5          3.2     117.0      -72.0               -75.8                   155.7         121.9
8. Total Consumption      1,425.7   1,923.9   1,967.9  .1,817.8                1,527.9                 1,511.7       1,655.3
9. Investment                454.6     407.5      555.1      282.3               -71.0                   443.0         500.0
10. Domestic Savings          252.1     404.3      438.1      354.0                 4.8                   287.3         378.1
11. GDP at Curr.US$        1,590.4   1,861.3   2,237.3   2,171.8               1,787.4                  2,214.6       2,653.1
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1978 prices)
1. Agrictulture              .234      .228       .219       .256                .292                    .274         .252
2. Industry                  .287       .285      .287       .283                .269                    .207         .215
3. Services                  .479       .487      .494       .461                .439                    .519         .533
C. Prices (1978 = 100)
1. Export Price Index        66.8      83.1      100.0       100.0              102.1                    104.0         110.2
2. Import Price Index        71.7      72.0       93.9       100.0              114.9                    122.7         130.8
3. Terms of Trade Index    93.2       115.4      106.5       100.0               88.9                   * o4.           84.3
4. GDP Deflator (US$)        74.9      83.1       94.7       100.0             112.3                     118.0         124.2
5. Aver.Exch.Rate             7.0        7.0       7.0         7.0
D. Public Finance
(As X of GDP at curr.US$)
1. Current Revenue           20.3      20.2       23.8        19.2
2. Curr. Expenditures        17.4      17.4       20.5        20.9
Public Sect.Savings        3.0       2.8        3.3        -1.7
4-Cap. Expenditures        11.2       10.8       14.3         6.3



ANNEX I
Page 5 of8
.T XP OR T  DE T AIL
ACTUAL                         FSTIMATFD            PRWOF.CTED
1975   1976  1977    1978            Is7s          1980        1981
OC>'STANT 1978 PRICES
JOOD                                  31.7       35.3      35.7       31.t            39.5          46.4        23.?
OTHER CONSUMER GOODS                 155.4     15T.8      173.6      116.T            60.3          86.2       134.5
PETROLEUM, OIL, LUBRICANTS            90.3      95.4      105.6       89.0            73.3          80.9        85.7
OTNER INTERMEDIATE GOODS             208.1     211.1      234.2      a7.8            159.7         248.6       259.4
CAPITAL GOODS                      235.3     239.1      293.8      139,2            73.5         150.0       201.6
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                  T20.8      T38.7     82li9      593.9           406.3         612.1       704.4
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                  672.4      689.1     749.4      546.8           365.4         550.9       634.0
NFS                                156.0     165.2      169.o      139.2           142.27        121.6       143.1L
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                628.4      854.3     918.4   . 686.o            508.1         672.5       777.4
PPICE INDEX (1978 = 100)
FOOD                                  64.9      68.8       86.o      100.0           114.o         140.0       151.1
OTHER CONSUMER GOODS                 65.2       74.8       86.8      100.0           108.6         115.1       122.0
PETROLElUM, OIL, LUBRICAlfTS          80.7      76.8       97.5      100.0           150.0         172.5       198.4
OTHER INTERMEDIATE GOODS              84.0      81.4      107.8      100.0           104.3         110.4     . 118.1
CAPITAL GOODS                       62:6      60.4       86.8      100.0           108.6         115.1       122.0
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                   71.7      72.0       93.9      100.0           1114.9        122.7       130.8
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                   71.7      72.0       93.9      100.0           114.9         122.T       130.8
Y6 *     -                          77.9      79.2       86.8      100.0           108.6         115.1       122.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                 72.9      .73.4      92.6      100.0           113.2         121.3       129.2
CURRENT VALUES
FOOD                                  20.6      22..3      30.7       31.2            45.0          65.0        35.0
OTHER CONSUMER GOODS                 101.3     118.0      150.7      116.7            65.5          99.2       164.1
PETROLEUM, OIL, LUBRICANTS            72.9      73.3      103.0       89.0           110.0         139.6       170.0
OTHER INTER1FDIATE GOODS             1Th.8     171.9      252.5      217.8           166.6         274.5       306.4
CAPITAL GOODS                      11.73     144.4      255.0      139.2            79.8         1T2.6       245.9
TOTAL GOODS (CIu)                  516.9      531.9     791.9      593.9           467.o         750.9       921.4
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                  h$2.2      496.2     704.1      546.8           420.0         675.8       829.3
UnF                                121.5     130.8      1246.7     139.2          .155.0         140.0       175.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                603.T     62T.0      850.8      686.o           5T5.0         815.8    1,004.3



ANEX I
Page  6 of 8
EXP ORT  DE T AIL
ACTUAL                      ESTTMATED         PROJECTED
=2        1976       1977      1978          1979        1980        1981
CONSTANT VALUES ( MILLIONS OF 1978 DOLLARS)
COTTON                                14h.9      123.5      127.3    140.9          12'3.7       31.8      140.8
COFFEE                                148.o      129.3      180.8    199.6          203.2       230.4       250.6
8UGAR                                   18.1      29.9       19.9    *19.6           15.0        23.1       23.6
DMEF                                    42.9      51.7       52.3      67.4          63.4        63.0        60.3
ALL OTHER GOODS                        207.1     253.5      256.1    218.3          162.4       171.2       187.3
TOTAL MERCHANDISE FOB                    561.3     650.9      636.4   ,646.o          567.7       519.5       662.6
DOW-FACTOR SERVICES                     104.2      105.4      121.3    113.0           75.0        75.2        95.7
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                      665.5     756.3      757.7    758.0          642.7       594.7       758.3
PRICE INDEX ( 1978 = 100
COTT1ON                                 65.9     105.7      118.3    100.0          117.3       126.4      137.6
COFFEE                                  32.5      62.1      110.0    100.0           77.3        69.2       83.2
SUGAR                                  235.4     176.6      139.7    100.0          110.7       119.9       136.9
BEEF                                    62.9      72.7       71.3    100.0          133.1       111.1       111.7
ALL OTIERS                              7T.9      79.2       86.8    100.O          108.6       115.1       122.0
TOTAL MERCHANIDISE FOB                    66.8      83.1      100.0    100.0          102.1       104.0       110.2
30W-FACTOR SERVICES                      77-9       79.2       86.8    100.0          108.7       115.0      122.0
TTAL GOODS AND NFS                        68.5      82.6       97.9    100.0          102.8       105.4       111.7
CURRET VAIJFS (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
COTTON                                  95.6     130.6      150.6    140.9          145.1        40.2       193.8
COFFEE                                  8.1      119.4      198.8    199.6          157.0       205.5       208.6
SUGAR                                  42.6       52.8       27.8      19.6          16.6        27.7        32.3
BEEF                                    27.0      37.6       37.3      67.4          84.4        70.0        67.o
ALL OTHER GOODS                        161.6     200.8      222.3    218.3          176.4       ly7.0       228.5
TOTAL MERCHANDISE                        374.9     541.12     636.8    646.o          579.5       540.4       730.2
30F-FACTOR SERVICES                       81.2      83.5      105.3    113.0           81.5        86.5       116.8
TOAL GOODS AND NF                        h56.1     624.7      742.1    758.0          661.o       626.9       847.0



ANNEX I
- 42 -                            Page 7 of 8
BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Actual                        Estimated            Projected
1975      1976      1977      1978               1979          1980       1981
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
Merchandise Exports (FOB)         374.9    541.2    636.8       646.o              580           540        730
Merchandise Imports (FOB)         482.2    496.2    704.1        546.8             420           675        830
Trade Balance                  -107.3      45.0    -67.3      +99.2             +160          -135       -100
Export of NFS                      81.2      83.4     105.3     113.0               80            85        115
Imports of NFS                    121.5    130.8      146.7   -139.2               155           140        175
Net Services                    -40.3    -47.3    -4i.4       -26.2              -75           -55        -60
Resources Gap (-)                -147.6      -2.3    -108.7      73.0               85          -190       -160
Factor Income, Net                -53.1    -71.7      -78.o    -73.1               -11          -140        -60
Profits, Net                    -23.8     -27.7    -28.5    -22.4                 -             -          -
Interest, Net                   -29.3    -44.o    -49.5    -50.7                 -11          -140        -60
Transfers, Net                     16.7      10.0      11.0      10.0               70            50         20
Current Account Balance          -184.0    -64.o   -175.7         9.9              144          -280       -200
Direct Investment, Net             11.0      14.0      10.0       7.0                0             0          0
Public M and LT Loans, Net        156.4      46.2    196.4        50.9              93.3        +340       +280
Disbursements                   171.1      75.5     245.3    101.6               102.6          -          -
Amortization (-)                -18.4    -33.4      -50.2     -52.2               -9.3          _          _
Loans Repayable in Local
Cirrency                        3.7       4.1       1.3       1.5                -            -          -
Allocation of SDR's                 -         -,        -         -
eShort-Term Capital and NEI         23.2      52.5    -87.3    -292.1              -207.3           0          0
Net International      e
Reserves (- = increase)          -6.6    -48.7    -56.6        224.3             -30.0          -60.0     -ou.U
B. Grant and Loan Commitments
Official Grant                     16.7      10.0      11.0       10.0
Total Public M and LT Loan        202.9    172.6    161.5    167.1
IBRD                                5.0      11.0      22.0      13.1
IDA                                 6.0       0.0       'O.O      0.0
Other Mutilateral                  51.9      37.2      27.1      41.1
Governments                       *59.8      68.6      46.9       80.8
of which CPE                        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Suppliers                          12.2       0.1       6.3        3.5
Financial,Institutions             74.0      55.7      59.2      28.5
Bonds                               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Public Loans NEL                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other M and LT Loans                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
C.  Memoranda Itens
Grant Element of Total Commitments 19.3      19.7-    11.6      124.2
Average interest (%)               7T4        6.7       T.4        6.6
Average maturity (yrs.)            16.9      14.9      10.6      16.8



- 4A  -
Pace 8 of 8
Debt ancO Credit;o2thiriess
A c t u a 1
29>5   Ml9({C   h977        3978
A.  Medium tandl Lon)L-Terj_  (Disbrsed onlv)
1.0  Total Debt Ou.stotnding                 595.5    653.8    867.4    1,113.0
2.0  Including Undisbursed                   8314.1    959.0  1,092.1  1-3i ].3
3.0  Pulblic debt serviec                     55.0     72.    600.5         97..
3.1  Interest                                 35.6    141.0      51.14         . L.
i.O  OLher li amd LT debt service             0.0      0.0       0.0         0 .0J
5.0  Total Debt Service                       55.0     72.9    100.5         97.1
B.  Debt Burdei          -
1.0  Debt Servicc Ratio                       12.1     11.7      13.5        12.3
2.0  Debt Service Ratic,.1/                   17.3     16.1      17.4       .].5.7
3.0  Debt Service/GDP                          3.5       3.9      4.5         h.5
C.  Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD           7.8       6.9      7.9         5.6
2.   Total debt service/Total DOD             12.1     12.2      15.4        13.2
D. Dependency Ratios for M and LT Dcbt
1.   Grors Disburser-ents/Inports
(Incluzding NFS)                      26.5      14.2      30.5       20.8
2.   Not transfer/Imrports (DTIC1, NFS)       17. 4     2.5      18.7         6.6
3.   Net transfer/gross disbursements         65.6     17.9      61.3        31.9
E.  Exposure
I.   IBRD Disbursed/gross Total Disb.          8.7     15.1       5.4         4.9
2.   Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disb.    12.2        21.G6      6.6         5.5
3.   IIBRD DOD/Total DOD                       8.8      9.8       8.7         7.2
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                 11.0     12.7      11.2         9.3
5.   lBRD Debt Service/Totel Debt Service   9.9         8.5       7.4         7.2
6.   Bank Group Debt Scrvice/Total
Debt Service                          10.1       8.8       7.6         7.3
Outstanding, Dece-ber 't, 1978
Amount          Fercen't
F.  Externial Debt (D)isbursed on]l)
1.   IBRD                                                 80.2               7.2
2.   Bnil: Group                                        103.3                9.3
3.   Other Multilateral                                 140.6               12.6
4.   Governments                                        301.1               27.l
5.   Suppliers                                            25.6               2.3
6.   Financial Instituitions                             383.9              34.5
7.   Bonds                                                 8.3'              0.8
8.   Total M and LT Debt                                 962.8              86.5
9.   Other M and LT Debt                                 150.2              13.5
10.   T'otal M and LT Debt                              1,113.0             100.0
11.   Total M and LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)    1,361.3                122.3
LI  Includes direct investmnent incomne.
/2  Excludes l978-79 debt in1 arrears.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                     US$Million
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year       Borrower        Purpose           Total   IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Twenty Loans and Credits fully disbursed               91.3    3.6         -
840      1972    ENALUF             Power             24.0      -        0.3
389      1973    Government         Earthquake
Reconstruction   -      20.0        0.1
1244      1976    Government          Education        11.0      -       10.6
1402      1977    ENALUF              Power            22.0      -       17.5
1495      1977    Empresa Aguadora  Rural Sani-
de Managua          tation          3.0     -         2.6
1496      1977    Empresa Aguadora  Water Supp.
de Managua                          10.1    -         9.1
Total                                             161.4  23.6
of which has been repaid                         40.1   0.2
Total now outstanding                             121.3  23.4
Amounts sold                         5.6
of which has been repaid           4.5            1.1    -
Total held by Bank and IDA                        120.2  23.4
Total undisbursed                                                   40.2
1/   Includes exchange adjustments.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Year          Obligor              Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
TUS$ MillionsT
1968    Textiles Fabricato         Textile Mill              1.0   1.07       2.07
de Nicaragua, S.A.
(FABRITEX)
FY76    Nicaragua Sugar            Sugar Mill                6.5      -       6.5
Estates Limited
(NSEL)
FY76    Posada del Sol             Hotel                     0.7   0.2        0.9
(Camino Real Hotel)
Total Gross Committed                                        8.2   1.27        9.47
Less Cancellation terms, repayments and sales                4.3   1.07       5.37
Total Commitment now held by IFC                             3.9   0.2        4.1
C.      PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 840   Eighth Power Project; US$24.0 Million of June 28, 1972; Effective
Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The two main works of the project -- the steam power plant with asso-
ciated transmission lines, and the interconnection with Honduras --
were delayed about 20 months for several reasons: the need to make
repairs and install emergency facilities for power after the earth-
quake, late deliveries of equipment by suppliers, and late loan
effectiveness because of delay in signing the interconnection con-
tract with Honduras. The interconnection was placed in service in
October 1976, and the project originally appraised to cost US$34.7
million equivalent is now practically complete with an expected cost
overrun of about US$25.7 million. The cost overrun has been financed
by a US$16.1 million equivalent loan from the Venezuelan Investment
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
projects in execution and to report any problems which are being
encountered and actions taken to remedy them, they do not purport to
present a balanced evaluation of strength and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Fund and by tariff increases. ENALUF (now INE) has engaged consult-
ants to develop proposals for handling a silting problem at the steam
plant's cooling water intake, and implementation of the solution may
take another 12 months. Two Managua ring substations, and the line
connecting them, have not been completed. Now that project imple-
mentation is being resumed, an appropriate extension of the closing
date is being considered.
Cr. 389   Earthquake Reconstruction Project:  US$20.0 Million of June 6,
1973; Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
The water supply and power components were completed without signi-
ficant delays or cost overruns. After initial delays in submitting
acceptable sub-projects, the industrial financing component pro-
ceeded well and was completed in 1976. Difficulties in site acqui-
sition was the principal cause of substantial delays in the housing
and education components, although both components were substantially
completed by the end of 1977. The remaining undisbursed.balance,
allocated to the education component, is fully committed for comple-
mentary equipment and repairs to equipment and furniture in project
schools. Now that project implementation is being resumed, an
appropriate extension of the closing date is being considered.
Ln. 1244  Second Education Project; US$11.0 Million of June 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation was progressing satisfactorily until recent
political disturbances. Architectural designs, selections of con-
struction firms, and planning of in-service teacher training courses
had been completed. The new government has expressed its support for
the project, which is in line with its priority programs. However,
because of cost escalation, school reconstruction needs and severe
limitations on government revenues, it has deferred the agricultural
education/training component until completion of a recently initiated
assessment of manpower needs for agriculture and implementation of
the ambitious agrarian reform program, and the Bank has agreed to
include in its place a secondary school reconstruction program. This
reconstruction is designed to bring back to operational condition
about 22 schools built under the First Education Project which were
partially destroyed and looted during the political unrest. A six-
months extension of the Closing Date, to December 31, 1981, has been
granted.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Ln. 1402 Ninth Power Project: US$22.0 Million of April 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 27, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project was significantly delayed because of delays in hiring
consultants, difficulties in engaging contractors, and because
of ENALUF's increasingly tight financial situation. These diffi-
culties are in large measure a consequence of the political dis-
turbances. The cost of the project, originally appraised at US$32.3
million, is presently estimated at US$34.4 million. Modifications
have been agreed with the new Government and INE to reduce the Bank's
share of financing of the load dispatch center and to eliminate
Bank financing of aluminum conductors for the Costa Rica intercon-
nection line (with other external lenders expected to pick up the
difference), and to finance (1) a portion of local costs of the
transmission and distribution system and (2) reconstruction of
installations damaged during the civil war and replenishment of
INE's inventory of distribution equipment. The Closing Date has
been extended by 15 months, to June 30, 1982.
Ln. 1495 Rural Sanitation Project: US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In the aftermath of the civil work, no project execution is taking
place. The new Government, however, has indicated its desire to
continue the project. Once a reorganization of the Ministry of
Public Health and the development of specific policies regarding
rural sanitation are completed, the Government will present to
the Bank a proposed revised program to make use of the remaining
funds under the loan.
Ln. 1496 Managua Water Supply III Project: US$10.1 Million of January 30,
1978; Effective Date: May 26, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Execution of the project was interrupted during the civil war, but
resumed in September 1979. The project will continue essentially
as originally envisaged eliminating some components but with the
elimination of a few components which are not of high priority under
current circumstances, i.e., 3 storage tanks and associated pumping
stations, purchase of a computer and construction of distribution
mains in certain parts of earthquake-affected downtown Managua.
The resultant savings in project cost will be used to finance re-
placement of equipment destroyed during the war, an increased share
of local costs, and interest during construction. The Closing Date
has been extended by six months, to December 31, 1981.



- 48 -
ANNEX III
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I  -   Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
September 10 to November 1, 1979
(b) Project prepared by: BDN/FED
(c) First presentation to the Bank: September 10, 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September 9, 1979
(e) Completion of negotiations: November 21, 1979
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: February 1, 1980
Section II -   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Terms of- reference for consultants for BDN and FED are
to be submitted to the Bank for approval by February 29,
1980; prior to disbursement for the applicable technical
assistance, consultants with qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank are to be appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank Group (paras. 96-97).
(b) Prior to disbursements for the livestock survey, a
detailed budget and timetable as well as evidence of the
availability of adequate counterpart funds, are to be
submitted by MIDA through FED to the Bank Group (para 97);
(c) Prior to disbursements for financial intermediaries, except
for BDN, BANIC and BAMER, which have been prequalified, the
participation of each intermediary, and the terms and condi-
tions of the subsidiary agreements between FED and such
intermediary, are to be approved by the Bank Group (paras.
93 and 103);
(d) Prior to disbursements, a special account (revolving fund)
is to be set up in the Central Bank for FED (para 92).



;BR D-11604
MAY 1975
NICARAGUA
28 . : ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H  00  N  Ql U    84=A \5 '=e&::X= :4; 
TRANSPORT SECTOR BRIEF                                                                      0 N D U $ A S
-         Pori Amori n Hlgwoy                 AitOodas in meters
Moin p4Ved rOdrO                      0-500                                                                                       -_        Le,nrs 
_         All-wmtr roads (gEfoiv }              5P 1-1,000
_Dry weciter roa4s                              I    -, -,00
Rifroods                                  .50-2,00t
4' ports,CVSrouTsI
L3]   Roadns awv,sion depots                Deoprtfre naoundaorfa                                                                  o 'J
AeCrn9lHpa,  orPorts              -_-  Intirrairmnt        r d bomaries                                                                                             ""' :                     A
Sesondqry oalprtir
Rive'.
N T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hp
P 7      v0      ,        o               rti0J                  Slp                          iNOtG                           o7tni                                  -vsi                  ar6E EaWrrw olono
-  KILOMETERS             Rsr,ilI,
C o ri b be o n
:  \  :  S  To j  F   /  /  -  \  Coo zotwor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,op I5o,
X < ~~~~~~~~~ ~A                                  ~ ;iz1
Se a
12' Pc/ c i f ic f~~~~ ,WA -C                                                                                                                                 ""''/1           P,s,, DI/rL obEA-. lZ
,   CHINA       CG        A                                                                                         E  ATAOALY   AAT.A   
El PS. r    )  e  k   e   D    E    olo,
7..  e r^   s,I   rh0  ,   \sP- l                                                         snLM.r l t  ,-   d\ FX
L                                         _L.                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CORN,,
El T,6-                                                           c ElArRIIro   AoRL EEE,IS
Oce  a on                                                                                     Ubld. \\k 3, d    <,  C P  S Rr  MA )  1 2
p6 .i,,  -.      C                                                                                   a  I     I                                                                     No
PANA A                                                    86-                                 SOENTNAE 



