CREDIT NUMBER 966 NI
Project Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Dated                            , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 966 NI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATI      hereinafter called   the
Association) and BANCO NACIONAL  DE DESARROLLO (hereinafter called
BND).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that BND, for Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (herein-
after called Fondo), agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called the Bank), the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that BND, for Fondo, agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, BND agreed for Fondo to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Agricultural Credit
and Technical Assistance Components
(Parts A and C of the Project)
Section 2.01. (a) Fondo shall carry out Parts A and C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreement, and conduct its operations and affairs, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic,
agricultural, administrative and financial standards and prac-
tices, with qualified and experienced management and in accordance
with the Law.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for
Parts A and C of the Project shall be procured through regular
commercial channels; provided that, whenever a contract for the
purchase of goods by, or for the provision of services (other than
services of consultants) to, a Sub-borrower is estimated to exceed
the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), before the
award of any such contract: (i) price quotations from at least
three local suppliers or contractors, as the case may be; and (ii)
the approval of such contract by the Participating Bank making the
Agricultural Sub-loan, shall be obtained. Consultants' services
under Part C (1) of the Project shall be procured on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association. Vehicles under Part C
(2) shall be procured in group orders through regular commercial
channels, provided that price quotations from at least three local
suppliers are obtained.
Section 2.02. Fondo shall lend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement to Participating Banks in accordance with
the provisions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements and of the Schedule
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Association and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Fondo shall: (a) maintain and operate the
Agricultural Project Unit with an adequate number of qualified
personnel until the Closing Date; and (b) cause the Agricultural
Project Unit to: (i) provide training as necessary to the staff of
Participating Banks for purposes of Part A of the Project; (ii)
monitor the progress of Parts A and C of the Project in accordance
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; and (iii) prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than two months after the
end of each calendar quarter, a report on the progress of Parts A
and C of the Project during each such quarter, including the
results of such monitoring and periodic evaluations of the
success of Parts A and C of the Project in attaining their
objectives.


﻿Section 2.04. Fondo shall cause the Participating Banks to
provide, out of their own resources, additional financing, as
necessary, to Sub-borrowers, in such amounts and for such time as
shall be required under the applicable Agricultural Plans.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, Fondo shall:
(a) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each Parti-
cipating Bank, satisfactory to the Association, which shall
include the terms and conditions set forth in Part I.B of the
Schedule to this Agreement, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, Fondo shall not change or fail to enforce such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof, if such change
or failure would materially and adversely affect the purpose of
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) cause each such Participating Bank to make Agricultural
Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers under Agricultural Sub-loan Contracts,
on such terms and conditions as set forth in Part II.B of the
Schedule to this Agreement;
(c) exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such a manner as to protect its interests and those of the
Association; and
(d) cause each Participating Bank to exercise its rights
under the applicable Agricultural Sub-loan Contract in such
a manner as to protect its interests and the interests of Fondo
and the Association and, except as the Association and Fondo
shall otherwise agree, cause such Participating Bank not to
change or fail to enforce, such Agricultural Sub-loan Contract or
any provision thereof, if such change or failure would materially
and adversely affect the purpose of such Sub-loan Contract.
Section 2.06. (a) Fondo undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the goods imported for
purposes of Part C (2) of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency usable by Fondo to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used in the execution of the Project until its comple-
tion.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Fondo shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the terms of reference, bidding
documents and procurement schedules as appropriate for Part C (1)
and (2) of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
Section 2.08. BND shall: (a) cause MIDA to furnish to the
Association for its approval, not later than March 31, 1980, a
detailed budget and timetable for carrying out the livestock
survey under Part C (3) of the Project; and (b) cause MIDA to
carry out such survey in accordance with such approved budget and
timetable.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Industrial
Rehabilitation Credit Component
(Part B of the Project)
Section 3.01. Fondo shall carry out Part B of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, and
conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate economic, industrial,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with the Law.
Section 3.02. (a) When presenting an Industrial Sub-loan
(other than a free-limit Industrial Sub-loan), Fondo shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to
the Association, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, in accor-
dance with Part II.A (1) (d) of the Schedule to this Agreement,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Industrial Sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization of the Industrial Sub-loan, and (iii)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by Fondo for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Indus-
trial Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Investment Enterprises and the Investment Project, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out


﻿-5-
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions
of the Industrial Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(c) Except as the Association and Fondo shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before September 30, 1981.
Section 3.03. Fondo shall lend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Category (3) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement to Participating Banks in accordance with the provisions
of Subsidiary Loan Agreements and of the Schedule to this Ag re-
ment, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Association and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Fondo shall: (a) maintain and operate its
Industrial Project Department with an adequate number of qualified
personnel until the Closing Date; and (b) cause the Industrial
Department to: (i) provide training as necessary to the staff
of the Participating Banks for purposes of Part B of the Project;
(ii) monitor the progress of Part B of the Project in accordance
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; and (iii) prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than two months after the
end of each calendar quarter, a report on the progress of Part B
of the Project during each such quarter, including the results of
monitoring and periodic evaluations of the success of Part B of
the Project in attaining its objectives.
Section 3.05. (a) Fondo undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, it shall cause all Industrial Sub-
loans to be made on terms whereby the Participating Banks shall
obtain, on the basis of an Industrial Sub-loan Contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of Fondo and the Participating
Banks including the right of the Participating Bank to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Industrial Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,


﻿-6-
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them and (B) such goods and services shall
*be used in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Associa-
tion and Fondo if the Association shall so request, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;:(iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and that such insurance cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Industrial
Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, and that any indem-
nity thereunder be made payable in a currency usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as Fondo or the Participating Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the. Investment
Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Industrial Sub-loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform any of its
obligations under its Industrial Sub-loan Contract with the
Participating Bank.
(b) Fondo shall, and shall cause each Participating Bank to,
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such
a manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and
Fondo; (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of the Indust-
rial Sub-loan Contract; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part B
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of Fondo;
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Fondo shall establish and maintain separate
accounts on its records to be used exclusively for Parts A and B
of the Project and shall register in such accounts all receipts
and payments for or in connection with Parts A and B of the
Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting principles
and procedures consistently applied, which are satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-7-
(b) Fondo shall: (i) have its accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof and related statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of Fondo's fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such
accounts and related statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of Fondo and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Fondo: (i) shall establish and maintain,
and cause the Participating Banks to establish and maintain,
procedures adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project, including the costs of Project inputs and activi-
ties, and value of outputs, such procedures to permit identifica-
tion of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and disclosure of their use in the Project, the Agricul-
tural Plans and the Investment Projects; (ii) shall enable, and
cause the Participating Banks to enable, the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and agricul-
tural and construction sites included in the Project, the Agri-
cultural Plans and the Investment Projects and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, and cause the
Participating Banks to furnish through Fondo, to the Association,
at regular intervals, all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the Agricultural
Plans and the Investment Projects, including among others, the
costs of Project inputs and activities and where appropriate, the
value of outputs and effects to be derived from the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Subsidiary Loans
and the Sub-loans, the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, and the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of Fondo, the Participating Banks and MIDA.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Fondo and the
Association, Fondo shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association


﻿-8-
shall reasonably request, on the carrying out of the Project,
including costs and estimates of the outputs and effects to be
derived from the Project, the performance by Fondo, the Partici-
pating Banks, MIDA, and the Sub-borrowers of their respec-
tive obligations under the Credit Agreement, Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and the Sub-loan Contracts, and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.03. Fondo shall: (i) have the accounts referred
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and the accounts referred to
in Part I.C of the Schedule to this Agreement, and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) corresponding thereto for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of Fondo's financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts and financial state-
ments and the audits thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Association and the Borrower shall,
from time to time, or at the request of either of them, review the
lending terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement and shall make such adjustments as agreed between
them.
Section 4.05. (a) Fondo undertakes that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, all funds repaid to Fondo by
each Participating Bank under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (on or
before the maturities agreed thereunder) which are not required
for the repayment of principal of, or any other charges on, the
Credit shall be used for additional lending under Parts A and B of
the Project.
(b) The terms of such additional lending shall be reviewed
by the Association and the Borrower not later than three (3) years
from the date of this Agreement, and changed as agreed between
them.


﻿-9-
Section 4.06. In order to assist Fondo in carrying out Parts
A and B of the Project, Fondo shall: (a) not later than Febru-
ary 29, 1980, furnish to the Association for approval the terms of
reference for agricultural credit and financial management consul-
tants; and (b) not later than April 30, 1980, appoint such consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.07. (a) The Association and Fondo shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and Fondo shall from time to
time, at the request of any party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by Fondo of its obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of Fondo and
other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) Fondo shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of Fondo.
Section 4.08. Fondo shall duly perform all its obligations
under the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b)
of the Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Fondo shall not change such arrangements without the
Association's consent.
Section 4.09. Fondo shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by Fondo
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BND, for Fondo, thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿- 10 -
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BDN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Nacional de'Desarrollo:
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo
Edificio Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
Apartado Postal No. 328
Managua, Nicaragua


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANADES                           BNDCM-1035
Managua
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BND may be taken or executed by
the Director of Fondo or such other person or persons as BND shall
designate in writing, and BND shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person5
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and delivered in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Part I.   Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
with Respect to Parts A and B of the Project:
A.   Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
Participating Banks will meet the following criteria:
(i) past experience and good performance in agricultural or
industrial enterprise lending; (ii) suitable financial condition
and management, including compliance with auditing requirements
established by the laws of the Borrower; (iii) adequate managerial
and technical capabilities; and (iv) adequate number and qualifi-
cations of technical staff.
B.   Terms and Conditions
1.   Subsidiary Loans will finance 80% of Agricultural Plan
costs and Investment Project costs.
2.   The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan-outstanding
from time to time will bear interest of: (i) not less than 9% pe
annum nor more than 11% per annum for lending under Part A (1) of
the Project; (ii) not less than 7% per annum for small-scale
farmers and not less than 8.25% per annum for medium-scale
farmers for lending under Part A (2) of the Project; and (iii) not
less than 9% per annum nor more than 12% per annum for lending
under Part B of the Project, which rates may be amended from time
to time by the Borrower after consultation with the Association.
3.   Each Participating Bank will repay the principal
of, and pay interest on, the Subsidiary Loan not later than 15
calendar days after the dates on which repayment of principal of,
and payment of interest on, the Sub-loan fall due.
4.   Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement will include such other
terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association,
and shall provide, inter alia:
(a) that the Participating Bank will assist in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project by providing
additional credit to Sub-borrowers on terms and in
amounts necessary to ensure adequate financing of
the respective Agricultural Plans, in accordance
with the lending and operating policies and proce-
dures set forth in Part II hereof;


﻿- 13 -
(b) that the Participating Bank will conduct its
business and operations in accordance with appro-
priate financial and administrative practices and
under the supervision of competent and experienced
management;
(c) that Subsidiary Loans will be made and will be
repayable in c6rdobas;
(d) that the Participating Bank will establish and
maintain a Sub-loan Account, and have the Account
and related statements audited as required by Part
I.C of this Schedule; and
(e) that the Participating Bank will assist with
its own technical staff, or cause assistance to be
furnished to, Sub-borrowers for the preparation and
supervision of Agricultural Plans under Part A (2)
of the Project.
C.   Disbursements and Records
1.   Each Participating Bank will: (i) establish and main-
tain separate accounts in respect of its Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and of each Sub-loan made; (ii) have each of its Sub-loan
Accounts for each fiscal year and the financial statements
(including balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) corresponding thereto, audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association through Fondo as soon as available, but in any event
not later than four months after the end of its fiscal year, (A)
certified copies for such financial statements and of such sepa-
rate accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the reports of
such audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association and Fondo shall request; and (iv) furnish to the
Association and Fondo such other information concerning the
financial statements and Sub-loan Accounts and the audits thereof
as the Association or Fondo shall request.
Part II. Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures of the
Participating Banks with Respect to Parts A and B of
the Project
A.   Eligibility of Sub-borrowers
1.   (a) The Participating Banks will process all applications
for Sub-loans in accordance with their normal administrative


﻿- 14 -
procedures. The evaluation of the creditworthiness of applicants
and the analysis of the Agricultural Plans under Part A (2) of the
Project will be carried out by the Participating Banks.
(b) The technicians of the Participating Banks referred to
in paragraph B.4 (e) of Part I of this Schedule will assist
applicants in the preparation of Agricultural Plans under Part A
(2) of the Project.
(c) Approval of Industrial Sub-loans will be made on
the basis of appraisal reports prepared by the Participating Banks
showing, inter alia, that the proposed Sub-borrower had previously
operated as a financially viable enterprise, that such proposed
Sub-borrower's need for rehabilitation was a result of recent
economic events in the Borrower's country, that the proposed
Investment Project is technically feasible and financially viable,
that the capability of current management is adequate and that the
prospects for marketing the products of such proposed Sub-borrower
are favorable.
(d) An applicant for an Industrial Sub-loan will not be
required to meet a minimum capitalization requirement, unless the
total outstanding short- and long-term debt of the enterprise
exceeds 90% of the real value of its total assets, in which case
the applicant will be required to furnish to the Participating
Bank a specific plan for recapitalization of the enterprise.
2.   (a) A Sub-borrower will be eligible to receive Agricltural
Sub-loans under Part A (2) of the Project to finance renovation
of a maximum of 70 hectares of coffee farmland.
(b) An Industrial Enterprise will be eligible for In-
dustrial Sub-loans in an aggregate amount of not more than
$2,500,000 equivalent.
B.   Terms and Conditions
1.   The amount of a Subsidiary    Loan will not exceed 80% of
the estimated costs of the Agricultural Plan and Investment
Project to be financed thereby.
2.   The principal amount outstanding of each Agricultural Sub-
loan will:


﻿- 15 -
(a) bear interest at a rate of not less than 14% per annum
for lending under Part A (1) of the Project, and not less than 10%
per annum for small-scale farmers and not less than 11% per annum
for medium-scale farmers for lending under Part A (2) of the
Project (exclusive of all applicable commissions, taxes, charges
or fees of any kind whatsoever), which rates may be amended from
time to time by the Borrower after consultation with the Associa-
tion; and
(b) be repaid (i) in the case of short-term credits under
Part A (1) of the Project, to finance seasonal expenditures of
crop production and expenditures related to the maintenance of
permanent crops and livestock, in not more than 18 months, such
repayment period to be based on budgets for crop or livestock
activities utilized by BND, (ii) in the case of medium-term
credits under Part A (1) of the Project, to finance the purchase
of machinery, equipment, stock and other on-farm investment, in
not more than 5 years, taking into account the Sub-borrower's
ability to repay, as estimated on the basis of the Sub-borrower's
cash-flow projections, and (iii) in the case of credits to small-
and medium-scale farmers under Part A (2) of the Project, in not
more than 9 years, including a grace period of 4 years.
3.   The principal amount outstanding of each Industrial Sub-
loan will:
(a) bear interest at a rate of not less than 15% per annum
(exclusive of all applicable commissions, taxes, charges or fees
of any kind whatsoever), which rate may be amended from time to
time by the Borrower after consultation with the Association;
and
(b) be repaid (i) in the case of Industrial Sub-loans
to finance current production requirements, in not more than 5
years, and (ii) in the case of Industrial Sub-loans for repair or
replacement of fixed installations, in not more than 15 years,
including a grace period of 3 years.
4.   Each Sub-loan Contract will provide, inter alia, for the
following:
(a) the Sub-borrower's obligation to keep records of
the expenditures under a Sub-loan under Part A (2) or B of the
Project;


﻿- 16 -
(b) the Sub-borrower's obligation to insure goods to be
imported against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery to the place of use or installation;
(c) the Sub-borrower's obligation to enable the appli-
cable Participating Bank to comply with its obligations under the
applicable Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) that the Sub-loans will be repayable in c6rdobas;
(e) that the goods and services for an Agricultural Plan
will be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.01
(b) hereof, and will be used exclusively in the carrying -out of
such Plan;
(f) the right of the Participating Bank to require the
Sub-borrower to: (i) carry out the respective Agricultural Plan
under Part A (2) of the Project or Investment Project as such Plan
or Project may be changed by agreement between the Participating
Bank and the Sub-borrower; and (ii) operate the sites and facili-
ties included in the Agricultural Plan under Part A'(2) of the
Project or Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound agricultural, technical, financial
and managerial standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(g) the right of the Participating Bank to inspect the
goods, land, sites, works and construction included in the
Agricultural Plan and Investment Project, the operation thereof
and any relevant records and documents;
(h) the right of the Participating Bank to suspend and
terminate access by the Sub-borrower to the use of the pro-
ceeds of any Sub-loan under Part A (2) or B of the Project upon
non-performance of obligations under the applicable Sub-loan
Contract, and in appropriate cases, to premature such Sub-loan;
and
(i) all such other provisions as necessary to enable the
Borrower to fulfill its obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and to enable Fondo and the Participating Bank to fill
their obligations under the applicable Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and to protece  their interests and those of the Association.
5.   Each Participating Bank will also make available to its
Sub-borrowers under Part A of the Project the financing provided
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
C.   Disbursements and Records
1.   Whenever any goods or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of a Sub-loan are procured or paid for by any Partici-
pating Bank, the Participating Bank must promptly inform its
Sub-borrower of the amounts charged to the Sub-loan accounts for
such goods or services.
2.   The Participating Bank will furnish periodic statements to
the Sub-borrower, showing the amounts withdrawn from the Sub-loan
Account, including interest, disbursements and outstanding
balance.
D.   Supervision
1.   The Participating Bank will ensure that amounts withdrawn
from the Sub-loan Account are applied exclusively to expenditures
made for the respective Agricultural Plan or Investment Project.
2.   The staff of the Participating Bank and Fondo, or the
staff serving in the Agricultural Project Unit and in the Indus-
trial Project Department referred to in Sections 2.03 and 3.04,
respectively, of this Agreement on their behalf, will regularly
visit the farms and enterprises where Agricultural Plans and
Investment Projects, respectively, are being carried out to ensure
that Sub-borrowers are effectively and punctually carrying them
out and complying with the provisions of the applicable Sub-loan
Contracts.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  e4&       day of   VM/4   ,
19W.
FOR SECRETARY


