LOAN NUMBER 1785 NI
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1785 NI
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1980,
between REPUBLIC OF NI     G   (her nafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in (B) below by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Association (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment) the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000); and
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.01 (b) of
the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Associ-
ation and Banco Nacional de Desarrollo.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower undertakes towards the Bank
the same obligations it is undertaking towards the Association
pursuant to Article III of the Development Credit Agreement, with
the same force and effect as if such provisions were fully set
forth herein; provided, however, that all references to the
Association and the Credit in such Article shall be deemed
to be references to the Bank and the Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. All action taken by, and any notice given
to, the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement
shall, unless the context shall require otherwise, be deemed to be
taken or given also by or to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at
no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its Local Authorities, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other


﻿-4-
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any Local Authority and of any
entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of, the Borrower or any such Local Authority, including
gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabili-
zation fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date7yc         + (i) , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Fondo Internacional para la Reconstrucci6n de
Nicaragua is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-5-
For the Borrower:
Republic of Nicaragua
Ministerio de Finanza
Palacio de la Revoluci6n
Managua, Nicaragua
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and deli-
vered in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ,
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1985
through   April 1, 1999                     665,000
On October 1, 1999                               715,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-7-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                             6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.95%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 4 day of9.-lM9y.
FOR SECRETARY


