Report No. PID5759
Project Name            Russia-Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 2) (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       RUPE50491
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           12/23/97
Appraisal Date                   10/97
Approved by Board                12/18/97
Country Background
1.      Since 1991, Russia has made a major transformation.    Much has
been accomplished--the largest privatization program in history has
been undertaken; prices, foreign exchange, and the foreign trade
regime have been substantially liberalized; and significant progress
has been made toward macroeconomic stabilization, with inflation
falling from several thousand percent to about 15 percent annually
and a relatively stable ruble. Progress has also been achieved in
establishing the basic institutions of a democratic, law-based
society. Economic growth remains more elusive, with GDP growth flat
for the first half of 1997, although there are increasing signs of
recovery: there was small GDP and industrial growth recorded in
August and September of 1997. Overall, much remains to be achieved,
and Russia faces many important challenges in the years ahead to
complete Russia's transformation to a stable, market-oriented
economy. Putting the economy on a path of sustainable growth and
maintaining macroeconomic stabilization will require continued deep
structural reforms.
Objectives
2.      SAL 2, which follows and builds on the first SAL for the
Russian Federation (SAL 1; Loan RU-PE-49203; approved June 1997),
will assist the Government to undertake the structural reforms
necessary to lay the foundation for renewed economic growth and to
maintain macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-term. It will
also provide the financing necessary to provide an adequate level of
public services during the difficult fiscal transition that has
characterized most former centrally planned economies.
Description
3.      The operation supports economy-wide structural reforms that (a)
advance competitive enterprise and market development and impose



financial discipline on the enterprise sector; and (b) have a major
direct impact macro stability. It focuses on fiscal management;
private sector development; natural monopoly regulation and
restructuring; banking reform; and trade policy reform.
Financing
4.      US$ 800 million; in two tranches of US$ 400 million each;
Single Currency Loan.
Implementation
5.      The primary counterparts are the Ministries of Finance and
Economy, with heavy involvement of other Government agencies.
Reforms to be supported under the Bank operation will be implemented
through a variety of mechanisms, including inter-agency working
groups, on-going and new Technical Assistance loans, and PHRD grants
from the Japanese Government. Bank experts will be available to
assist the relevant officials and working groups.
Sustainability
6.      Key to the sustainability of the overall reform process will be
renewed economic growth, which should occur if progress is made on
the structural agenda and if macroeconomic stability is maintained.
Both of these are supported under SAL 2.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      In addition to SAL 1, there have been two prior rehabilitation
loans to the Russian Federation--in 1992 and 1995. Lessons learned
from all three operations include the need to: a) develop a long-
term relationship with Government on the design of the structural
agenda in a wide variety of areas; (b) provide adequate assistance
during implementation; (c) remain flexible enough to respond quickly
when windows of opportunity come open for new waves of structural
reform; and (d) coordinate Bank operations closely with
macroeconomic development.
Poverty Category
8.      The operation has been designed in the context of the Bank's
overall strategy in Russia to cushion the impact of the economic
transition on vulnerable groups. To this end, the Bank has carried
out a poverty assessment and is working with the Government to
follow up in a wide number of areas, including child allowances,
housing allowances for poor households, unemployment insurance,
pension reform, and the overall targeting of health, education, and
other public services to improve coverage of poor groups. Selected
aspects of the overall dialogue with the Government on poverty
reduction are included in SAL 2. In addition, SAL 2 will provide
the resources to generate economic growth, therefore providing more
employment opportunities as well as fiscal revenues for public services.
Environmental Aspects
-2-



9.      The operation would have no direct impact on the environment
and (in line with operational OD4.02 and 8.60) has been placed in
category C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
Program Objective Categories
10.     Public Policy Reform; Private Sector Development.
Contact Point:           Harry G. Broadman
Program Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-1312
Fax No.:         (202) 477-0288
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or componebts may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 19, 1998.
- 3 -



