Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 25478
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan 3513-RU)
SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan 3898-RU)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4180-RU)
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4261-RU)
February 24, 2003
Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rbl)
Average Exchange Rates (Rubles per US$)
Period Average
1992   =   0.196           1997   =   5.785
1993   =   0.933           1998   =   9.705
1994   =   2.205           1999   =   24.62
1995   =   4.562           2000   =   28.129
1996   =   5.126
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year                               World Bank Fiscal Year
January I - December 31                              July 1- June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA         Analytical and Advisory Services    IBRD    International Bank for
ARKO        Bank Restructuring Agency                   Reconstruction and Development
CAE         Country Assistance Evaluation      ICB      International Competitive Bidding
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy        ICRs     Implementation Completion Reports
CBR         Central Bank of Russia             ID        Institutional Development
CIS         Commonwealth of Independent        IFC       International Finance Corporation
States                             IMF      International Monetary Fund
CEB         Central Europe and the Baltic       LFS      Loans-for-Shares
COMECON     Council of Mutual Economic          MICEX   Moscow Inter-Bank Currency Exchange
Assistance                         MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
CPI         Consumer Price Index                MPP     Mass Privatization Program
CPPRs       Country Portfolio Performance      NES      New Economic School
Reviews                            OED      Operations Evaluation Department
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction    OEDCR   Operations Evaluation Department, Country
and Development                             Evaluation and Regional Relations
ECA         Europe and Central Asia (Regional  OFZ      Govermment Short-Term Securities
Office)                            PPAR     Project Perfornnance Assessment Report
EFF         Extended Financing Facility         RECEP   Russian European Center for Economic
ESW         Economic and Sector Work                    Policy
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment           RL      Rehabilitation Loan
GAO         (U.S.) General Accounting Office    SAL     Structural Adjustment Loan
GDP         Gross Domestic Product              SECAL   Sectoral Adjustment Loan
GEF         Global Environment Facility         SME     Small and Medium Enterprise
GKI         State Committee for the             SOEs    State-owned Enterprises
Management of State Property       SPAL     Social Protection Adjustment Loan
GKO         Government Short-Term Securities    TA      Technical Assistance
IAS         International Accounting Standards  WTO     World Trade Organization
Director General, Operations Evaluation                             Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department                  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Senior Manager, OEDCR                                              Mr. R. Kyle Peters
Task Manager                                                        Mr. Gianni Zanini



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
GREGORY K. INGRAM
Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 24, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on the Russian Federation
Rehabilitation Loan (Loan 3513-RU); Second Rehabilitation Loan
(Loan 3898-RU); Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 4180-RU); and
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 4261-RU)
The main objectives of the first Rehabilitation Loan (RL I; $600 million; approved in
August 1992) were to support a program of macroeconomic stabilization in conjunction with the
IMF, and a specific program of structural reforns necessary for market driven economy.
Specifically, the loan aimed to support (a) broad trade and price liberalization; (b) a privatization
program encompassing large and small scale enterprises; (c) financial sector reform; and
(d) development of a more transparent legal and taxation regime. Subsidiary objectives were to
familiarize the authorities with Bank lending operations, as this was the first loan to Russia,
particularly with regard to procurement and disbursement procedures, and to finance critical
imports necessary to forestall declines in output during the adjustment period. The objectives of
the Second Rehabilitation Loan (RL II; $600 million; approved in June 1995) were similar to the
first, with a stronger emphasis on trade liberalization, in particular eliminating export quotas and
procedures. This operation was designed as a single tranche loan, with reforms being completed
prior to Board presentation.
Progress in attaining the objectives of these loans was mixed. During the three years
covered by these two operations, the government's macroeconomic stabilization program was not
consistently implemented, although by the end of 1996 a measure of monetary stability was
established and inflation was reduced considerably. Fiscal management was deficient with
generally weak revenue mobilization and inadequate expenditure control. Substantial progress
was, however, achieved in the structural reform agenda, particularly in privatization and trade and
pnce liberalization. By the end of 1996 it was estimated that about 70 percent of GDP was
generated in the private sector. Progress had also been made in introducing international standard
prudential regulations and strengthening the supervision capabilities of the central bank. More
limited progress had been achieved in building the requisite legal and institutional framework
necessary for private sector development and in agricultural sector reforms, particularly land
reform.
The objectives of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 1; $600 million; approved in June
1997) and the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II; $800 million; approved in December
1997) were to assist a new reform-minded Government to (a) stabilize the economy and
(b) undertake over the medium term deep policy and institutional reforms aimed at having a
major direct positive impact on the structural fiscal balance, at imposing financial discipline on
the enterprise sector, and at advancing competitive enterprise and market development in four
areas: (i) reform of natural monopolies (electric power, natural gas, and railway sectors);
(ii) private sector development; (iii) fiscal reform; and (iv) banling sector reform. SAL II also
supported (v) trade policy reform.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
Their limited achievements pale compared to their shortcomings. There was virtually no
implementation of the important agreed reforms, including inadequate fiscal and other policy
adjustments to the deterioration in international commodity prices and to the mounting capital
flight and speculative attacks on the fixed nominal exchange rate. Both 1997 and 1998 continued
to be characterized by poor and deteriorating revenue collections, large capital outflows,
unreformed natural monopolies, no transparent privatizations, and a banking sector with serious
problems, little capacity to provide normal banking services, and increasingly vulnerable to
volatility in exchange rates. SAL II moreover contributed to further appreciation of the real
exchange rate in early 1998, and thus to the worsening of competitiveness for Russian
manufacturing enterprises. The 1998 financial crisis underscored the fragility of the
macroeconomic stabilization that had been achieved in the mid-1 990s and the incomplete reform
agenda. Transforming this large command economy had proven to be politically and
economically more complex and more protracted than had been previously thought.
Given that the objectives of RL I were only partially achieved, OED rates its outcome as
moderately satisfactory and its ID impact as modest, compared to satisfactory and substantial in
the ICR review. With regard to RL II, while all the required policy reforms were completed prior
to Board presentation, these reforms were not sufficient to forestall further declines in output.
Furthermore, the monetary stabilization program was never underpinned by adequate fiscal
discipline. Therefore, OED rates project outcome as moderately unsatisfactory and ID impact as
negligible, compared to satisfactory and modest in the ICR review. For both rehabilitation loans,
sustainability is rated as likely and Bank performance as satisfactory. For both SALs, OED rates
outcome as unsatisfactory and ID impact as modest, but sustainability of the limited achievements
as likely. Bank performance is also rated unsatisfactory. These ratings confirm those in the ICR
reviews.
Several important lessons may be drawn from these projects. First, sound
macroeconomic management is a pre-requisite for the positive responses expected to flow from
structural reform, under all policy-based type of lending. Second, country ownership is crucial to
the success of assistance. Third, in the face of a poor track record and narrow country ownership
of reform, a large adjustment lending program (especially one with front-loaded disbursements)
risks delaying rather than accelerating reform. Fourth, in the face of a poor track record and new
consensus on a reform programn, adjustment lending should be offered after the govemment has
publicly adopted the necessary reforms or has begun implementing them. Disbursements should
be backloaded and carefully modulated on the basis of solid progress in implementation,
including enforcement of laws and regulations. Fifth, there needs to be strong strategic
coordination and integration of actors, instruments, and interventions supporting common
objectives both within the country and the Bank and among extemal development partners.
Sixth, the Bank should not ignore in its adjustment lending the quality of public institutions and
governance. Finally, the Bank should keep "windows of opportunity" in perspective, as transition
and development take time.
/J1 7



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination
of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's
lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or
complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or
Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The
projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examines project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.,This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnabllity: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highty Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through:
(a) better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or
(b) better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
iristitutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.



I



Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities .......................................... i
Preface .......................................... iii
1. Background
The Extraordinary Transition Challenge ..................................... I
Russia's Specific Challenges .................................... 2
The Government's Initial Reform Agenda .................................... 4
2. The Rehabilitation Loans
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, 1992-95 ............. ........................ 7
The Rehabilitation Loans' Objectives ....................................       8
The Rehabilitation Loans' Implementation .................................... 10
The Rehabilitation Loans' Achievements .................................... 10
3. The Structural Adjustment Loans
The Bank's Assistance Strategy, 1996-97 ..................................... 14
The SALs' Objectives .................................... 15
The SALs' Achievements, 1997-98 ..................................... 17
Recent Developments, 1999-02 .................................... 19
4.   Overall Assessment
The Rehabilitation Loans ..................................... 20
The Structural Adjustment Loans .................................... 21
5. Contributions to Development Effectiveness
Borrower Performance ..................................... 23
Bank Performance ..................................... 25
6. Lessons .27
Tables
Table 1.1   Pre-Transition Economic Indicators of the Soviet Union.                2
Table 2.1   Selected Macroeconomic Indicators .                                   I
Table 2.2 Selected Fiscal Indicators .11
Annexes
Annex A:    Basic Data Sheet for the Rehabilitation Loans I and II.               29
Annex B:    Basic Data Sheet for the Structural Adjustment Loans I and II .33
Annex C:    Rehabilitation Loan I - Status of Policy Agreements .37
Annex D:    Rehabilitation Loan II - Status of Policy Agreements .43
Annex E:    SALs I and II- Status of Policy Agreements (as of July 1998) .47
Annex F: Bank Management's Cotents .87
Annex G: OED Response to Management Comments .91
This report is based on the draft PPARs originally prepared for the two Rehabilitation loans by Roger
Robinson in 1998-99 and for SALs I and II by Prof. William Branson. The Task Manager was Gianni
Zanini, who was also responsible for the work during 2001-02 on the Russia Country Assistance
Evaluation. Agnes Santos, Betty Casely-Hayford and Roziah Baba provided administrative support.






Ratings and Responsibilities
Performance Ratings
ECA Region                       OED
ICR            EVM/ES*               PPAR
Rehabilitation I (3513-RU)       Feb. 12, 1997     June 24, 1997
Outcome                           Satisfactory      Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                      Likely            Likely              Likely
Institutional Development Impact  Substantial       Substantial           Modest
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Rehabilitation II (3898-RU)      Feb. 12, 1997     June 24, 1997
Outcome                           Satisfactory      Satisfactory  Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                      Likely            Likely              Likely
Institutional Development Irnpact  Not Applicable     Modest             Negligible
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Satisfactory
SAL I (4180-RU)                  July 15, 1999     July 20, 2001
Outcome                          Satisfactory**    Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Uncertain           Likely              Likely
Institutional Development Impact    Partial           Modest              Modest
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
SAL 1 (4261-RU)                  July 15, 1999     July 20, 2001
Outcome                         Satisfactory**     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Uncertain           Likely              Likely
Institutional Development Impact    Partial           Modest              Modest
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
* While OED conducts an in-depth assessment of only a fraction of closed projects, it reviews all
ICRs, validate their ratings, and update its database with information and judgments on various
aspects of project performance. The summary findings of these desk reviews by OED evaluators are
recorded for each project in a free-fonnat Evaluation Memorandum (EVM) and, since 2001, in its
successor template, the Evaluation Summary (ES).
** According to Table 2 of the ICR. The ICR text, however, suggests that a more accurate rating
for outcome would be marginally (or moderately) satisfactory (an option available to OED
evaluators but not to Bank staff).



Key Project Responsibilities
Project                 Staff               Appraisal             Completion
Rehabilitation Loan         Task Manager          Richard Westin        Richard Westin
(3513-RU)                   Division Chief        Yukon Huang       Richard Westin (Acting)
Country Director        Russ Cheetam          Yukon Huang
Second Rehabilitation       Task Manager          Richard Westin        Richard Westin
Loan (3898-RU)              Division Chief        Pradeep Mitra     Richard Westin (Acting)
Country Director        Yukon Huang           Yukon Huang
Structural Adjustment       Task Manager          Ulrich Zachau       Harry G. Broadrnan
Loan I (4180-RU)            Division Chief        Pradeep Mitra          Pradeep Mitra
Country Director       Michael Carter         Michael Carter
Structural Adjustment       Task Manager        Harry G. Broadmnan    Harry G. Broadman
Loan 11 (4261-RU)           Division Chief        Pradeep Mitra          Pradeep Mitra
Country Director       Michael Carter         Michael Carter
ICR for Rehabilitation I was prepared by:  Richard Westin
ICR for Rehabilitation II was prepared by:  Richard Carroll
ICR for SAL I and SAL II was prepared by:  John Holsen, Consultant, ECSPE and
Harry Broadman, Principal Econormist, ECSPE



Preface
1.    This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for four Bank loans
to the Russian Federation: the Rehabilitation Loan (RL I; $600 million; Loan No. 3513-
RU), the Second Rehabilitation Loan (RL II; $600 million; Loan No. 3898-RU), the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I; $600 million; Loan No. 4180-RU) and the Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II; $800 million; Loan No. 4261-RU).
2.    RL Iwas approved in August 1992, made effective in December 1992, and closed
in September 1994 after a delay of 9 months. It was fully disbursed, with the bulk of
disbursements between December 1992 and June 1993. RL II, a single-tranche operation,
was approved in June 1995, was declared effective and fully disbursed in September 1995
and closed in June 1996. SAL I, also a single-tranche operation, was approved, made
effective, and fully disbursed in June 1997, and closed in March 1998. SAL II was
approved and made effective in December 1997, fully disbursed in two equal tranches, in
December 1997 and January 1998, and closed in December 1998.
3.    The PPAR is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) prepared
by the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Regional Office (Reports No. 16298 and No.
16300 dated February 12, 1997 for RL Iand RL II, respectively; Report No. 19572 dated
July 15, 1999 covering both SALs I and II); the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports
for the four projects, the legal documents, project files, related economic and sector work,
various Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) documents, and discussions with Bank staff,
including in the context of the 2002 Russia CAE (Russian Federation: Country Assistance
Evaluation; Report No. 24875, dated September 23, 2002).
4.    A PPAR mission led by Roger Robinson (then Senior Evaluation Officer,
OEDCR) visited Russia in September 1997 and discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's
RLs I and II with government officials, representatives of the civil society and other
donors. Following the financial crisis in Russia in August 1998, including the subsequent
Government default on domestic debt obligations, and in light of the ECA Region's
comments on October 20, 1999, the finalization of this report was postponed to after the
completion of the Russia CAE.
5.    During November-December 1999, Prof. William Branson (then consultant,
OEDCR) taught at the New Economic School (NES) in Moscow and discussed the
effectiveness of the Bank's SALs I and II with govermment officials and representatives of
other donors and the civil society, including through informal exchanges with faculty at
NES and at the Russian European Center for Economic Policy (RECEP), his attendance
at the annual conference of RECEP, a discussion on the Russian debt situation at a
Finance Institute conference, and a seminar at RECEP on the SAL program.
6.    Alice Galenson and Laurie Effron (OEDCR) were the peer reviewers. In parallel
with the review by the ECA Region, an earlier draft of this PPAR was sent to the
Government of the Russian Federation for its review. The Government had no
comments. The comments from the ECA Region are attached as Annex F, with a
response from OED in Annex G.






1.    Background
The Extraordinary Transition Challenge
1.1   The rules of the game changed dramatically in Central Europe and the Soviet
Union in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as major political and economic reforms-
before and after the collapse of communist rule- opened up new opportunities. It is
difficult to overemphasize the magnitude of the changes required to move from a
centrally planned to a market economy. On the eve of transition, communist countries
had inappropriate policy, institutional and legal frameworks, were over-industrialized,
with capital stocks largely unsuitable for production in a market economy, and often
provided excessive social protection and infrastructure.
1.2   Planners determined resource allocation, with scant regard for scarcity prices.
Resources for inefficient investments were extracted compulsorily through high taxes on
enterprise profits and forced savings. Competition, including from trade, was
nonexistent. Firms did not have financial independence from the state and rarely had
direct contact with their suppliers, wholesale purchasers or final consumers. When
planning disappeared, it took a considerable time for firms to create these relationships.
To ease the informational demands of planning, firms were gigantic, often highly
vertically integrated, and orientated to production rather than sales. Incentives to
innovate and improve efficiency were weak, with firms facing soft-budget constraints.
1.3   The structure of output favored industrial production, notably machine tools,
heavy industry and defense, while economic geography was determined in ways that
would not have emerged through competitive forces (giving rise, for example, to the
Soviet mono-towns). Massive restructuring was required to make supply consistent with
demand, implying major shifts from industry 1o services, from heavy to light industry,
and from machinery and weapons to consumer goods. Such restructuring depended on
the emergence of new firms as much as on a reorientation of existing companies.
However, planned economies lacked small firms and the institutional infrastructure to
induce and aid their creation (supply of funds, legal frameworks, level playing fields with
incumbents, etc.). The political system, largely built on relationships between managers
and politicians, also favored incumbents.
1.4   Transition countries faced the dual tasks of building modem political democratic
institutions and of transforming their economies from centrally planned to market-based,
from state-dominated to private sector-driven, from closed to open, and from industry- to
services-oriented. By the end of the 1980s, there was a broad consensus among reformist
economists in transition countries and among Western economists that the transition path
required macroeconomic stabilization and the eradication of budgetary deficits
(eliminating enterprise subsidies); price liberalization; an effective legal framework
facilitating voluntary contracts and free entry and exit; competition in private markets to
be enhanced through trade opening (exchange rate convertibility, reduced tariffs) and
anti-monopoly policy; and the privatization of existing enterprises. Foreign direct
investment (FDI) was seen as crucial in supplying private capital, managerial skills, and
technology.



2
1.5     The transition challenge was compounded by the collapse of the Council of
Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON) trading bloc and of the Soviet Union, which
caused severe disruptions of trade and inter-enterprise linkages, and extraordinary shifts
in internal prices. All the transition economies suffered a decline in output, but with
strong reform programs, growth was restored in most of Central Europe and the Baltic
(CEB) countries by 1993, and FDI flows were significant by 1994.'
Russia's Specific Challenges
1.6    In the early 1980s, with stagnant production per capita and declining efficiency of
investment, dissatisfaction with the perforrnance of the Soviet economy was mounting
(see table 1.1). In parallel with President Gorbachev's policy of glasnost (political
openness),perestroika (economic restructuring) began in the mid-1980s with an increase
in social and investment expenditures, but no adjustment to prices and taxes. Private
small-scale initiative, including cooperatives, was permitted. State enterprises gained
considerable autonomy, albeit without accountability. This period saw also a
liberalization of the banking system and the start of spontaneous privatization-the
transfer of state property and enterprises to their managers. Together with declining
world oil prices and an anti-alcohol campaign that reduced important sources of
government revenues, these policies contributed to higher budget deficits, a dramatic
growth in external debt, and growing black markets. The central authorities lost effective
control over economic management (Mau 2000).2 All efforts to frame an economic
reformn program met with strong internal resistance and only rhetorical backing from
Western governments.
Table 1.1: Pre-Transition Economic Indicators of the Soviet Union
(% Change)                  1987         1988        1989         1990         1991
Net Material Product                0.7          4.6          1.9         -3.6        -11.0
Industrial Output (gross)           3.5          3.8          1.4         -0.1         -8.0
Agricultural Output (gross)        -1.2          3.3          1.7         -3.6         -4.7
Consumption                         2.7          4.0          5.4          2.0        -11.0
Fixed Investment                    6.0          7.6          4.1          0.1        -26.0
Industrial Wholesale Prices        -0.9          2.7          1.2          3.9        138.0
Retail Prices                       2.0          0.0          6.0          5.6         90.4
Monetary Growth (M2)               15.5         14.0         14.6         17.6         77.2
Source: Official Statistics.
1.7     A failed coup d'etat in August 1991 triggered the dissolution of the Soviet Union,
which was later replaced by a consultative association (the CIS) among most former
' In its comments on the CAE, the Govemment questioned the usefulness of such comparisons, as they "are
conventionally used to artificially set in opposition to each other refomis in different countries with different start-up
conditions, institutional characteristics, and scope of required change."
2 Monetary financing accommodated large fiscal deficits and wage increases granted by enterprise managers under
pressure from newly empowered workers' collectives. With declining productivity and growth and fixed prices, the
supply-demand imbalance intensified commodity shortages, hoarding, barter, black markets, and forced savings by
households, which were already endemic to the Soviet economy before perestroika. Excess demand became trapped
in large accumulated monetary balances-there were virtually no other financial assets in private hands-which stored
up an inflationary threat for a time when prices were liberalized. As imports rose, Westem commercial banks
eliminated short term credit lines, large scale capital flight began, and the balance of payments deteriorated sharply,
wiping out intemational reserves. The Soviet and Russian govemments managed the situation with draconian
measures to curb imports and by charging former allies world market prices for its exports.



3
Soviet republics. The independent Russian Federation (Russia) that emerged inherited an
industrialized and urbanized society and high level of human capital, but also a backlog
of environmental, military, and demographic imbalances. The country was also in a
severe recession, but continued to have global significance. It is the world's largest
country (17 million square kilometers), covering 11 time zones, and the sixth largest in
population (146 million in 2001). It includes 22 percent of the world's forests and 32
percent of its natural gas reserves.
1.8   Russia's initial conditions were more difficult than in the CEB countries. Few
Russians had any memory of the brief and distant experience with capitalism,
entrepreneurship, and markets-before World War I and the 1917 Bolshevik revolution.
The economy had been shaped by at least six decades of distorted relative prices,
repressed inflation, forced collectivization, and central planning. The country's wasteful,
rigid, largely resource-based, military-oriented, and over-integrated economic structures
were very vulnerable to shocks and international price fluctuations. Its large size, widely
dispersed population, poor transport infrastructure, and economic geography made it
difficult for trade to ensure sufficient competition outside a few large urban centers. The
federal structure and an inadequate state apparatus added layers of complexity to
economic and governance challenges.
1.9   The 1993 constitution provided for a strong presidency and established a
bicameral legislature-an upper Federation Council representing the constituent states,
and a lower State Duma, representing the disparate interests of political parties.
However, neither the Duma elected simultaneously with the constitutional referendum
nor the one elected in mid-i 995 expressed majorities aligned with the president and his
reformist economic team. It was not until the elections of a new Duma in late 1999 and
of President Putin in early 2000 that a more harmonious political relationship was
established between the legislative and executive branches. The period through late-1999
was characterized by ideological and political splits over market reforms; perceived risk
of backsliding; frequent shakeups and major divisions within the Government itself-
including between the regions and the center; and parliamentary opposition to the reform
efforts. Frequent use of the presidential power to rule by decree also weakened the
political consensus. Russia's transition was also hindered by the loss by the state of
control over natural resources; hostility to foreign investment; poor compliance by
economic agents with the new rules of the game; and a low level of trust vis-a-vis state
institutions and among market participants themselves. Sizeable intemal population
movements (mainly from Siberia to more temperate areas) added to the challenge.3
1.10  In addition to these problems, govemment attention was dominated by crisis
management, with short-term and frequently improvised policy reactions to new
emergency situations, rather than to the implementation of a longer-term and
comprehensive stabilization and reform blueprint. Major reforms came in surges, driven
by a thin layer of reformers temporarily enjoying the president's personal support and/or
by the imperatives of the latest crisis situations. As a consequence, achievements were
3 The Govemment pointed out that the experience of 1998-99, when the executive branch directly relied on
parliamentary support in carrying on the work praised by the Bank (see Annex 1I of the Russia CAE), is an example of
cooperation among the branches of govemment.



4
generally more successful when the state had to stop doing something rather than in
longer-term institution building or reforms requiring concerted actions in different
sectors. Broader ownership of the reforms and policy implementation capacity remained
fundamentally stunted, although the commitment of the reformist wing of the government
was never in doubt, all governments pledged their support to the reforms, and the
electorate voted at every crucial turn for continuing the transition.
The Government's Initial Reform Agenda
1.11  The key goals of the new reformist Russian administration were to move quickly
to a Western-style liberal democracy and to an open, market economy. The creation of a
competitive market-based economy in Russia would encompass one of the most
pervasive institutional reform efforts ever attempted. This would range from a
fundamental change in the legal nature of property rights to creation of an
incentive/reward structure that would determine the behavior of all economic agents. The
first two post-communist Russian governments (through December 1992) began a series
of market-oriented reforms, which proceeded irregularly through the end of the decade.
Russia's economic objectives were announced by President Yeltsin in October 1991:
* liberalization of most prices;
* unification of the exchange rate and liberalization of current account transactions;
* macroeconomic and financial stability to reduce inflation;
* accelerated transition to a market-based economy through privatization, regulatory
reform, anti-monopoly policies and improvements within the financial sector; and
* provision of an effective social safety net to protect the most vulnerable citizens.
1.12  These reform objectives were reconfirmed in Memoranda of Economic Policies
which were submitted to the IMF in March 1992 and to the Bank in July. This initial
stabilization effort was supported by an IMF First Credit Tranche Arrangement, which
included specific ceilings on credit expansion, a progressive move toward positive real
interest rates and measures to reduce the stock of inter-enterprise arrears. The target was
to reduce the monthly inflation rate and the consolidated fiscal deficit to below 10 percent
by the end of 1992.
1.13 Domestic price liberalization was undertaken swiftly in most regions. Between
January 1992 and early 1993, price controls were de-facto eliminated on most goods at
the retail and wholesale level, with the exclusion of a few sensitive food items, housing
rents, utilities and petroleum products. Due mostly to the large monetary emissions and
in smaller part to the monetary overhang, officially recorded prices increased over 14 fold
in 1992. While most people were adversely affected, the social costs without price
liberalization (involving severe shortages and black market activities) might have been
higher (Mau 2000).
1.14 A unified exchange rate system with a freely floating market determined raLte was
introduced in the beginning of July.
1.15 Financial stability. The Government also sought to address the fiscal imbalances.
New taxes were introduced, including a customs tariff, a value-added tax, and excise
taxes, and expenditures were reduced in military spending, subsidies, and investment.



5
Nevertheless the deficit for the first half of 1992 was still about 19 percent of GDP.
Attempts were also made to follow a monetary policy that was consistent with a steady
reduction in the rate of inflation. The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) refinance rate was
progressively increased to 80 percent by June, but interest rates were negative throughout
the first half of the year. Therefore with excess demand for credit that could not be met
and a build up in inventories due to the breakdown in the trading system, working capital
in the enterprise sector declined dramatically. This in turn led to a build up in arrears
among enterprises and to the banking sector and the tax authorities. Estimates at the time
suggested that these arrears had reached about US$23 billion by mid- 1992 (at the auction
exchange rate pertaining at that time).
1.16 Enterprise Reform. Transferring economic assets to private hands was expected
to create a strong constituency for the necessary institutional changes that would underpin
enterprise restructuring. The Government developed a multi-layer strategy for reforn of
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) which was to be directed by the State Committee for the
Management of State Property (GKI), in coordination with regional and local state
property committees, property funds, and privatization committees. The key component
was an accelerated privatization program approved by the Supreme Soviet in June, with
an amendment to the earlier Privatization Law (1991) that streamlined extensively the
institutional structure of the privatization program. The hope was to have small-scale
privatization completed by the end of 1993, although the GKI would have to develop
standardized procedures and help the local authorities implement the envisaged program,
as this aspect of privatization was their responsibility.
1.17  For medium and large SOEs the first element of the privatization process was the
need to clarify ownership rights through a process of corporatization. The target was to
have all large-scale firms transformed into joint stock companies by November 1992. For
those firms slated to remain in public hands (i.e. natural monopolies or special cases such
as defense) a program to improve asset management, accountability and corporate
govemance was being drawn up, to be implemented in early 1993. Following this
corporatization exercise, the GKI was to implement a mass privatization program (MPP)
which would include distribution of privatization coupons or vouchers to the general
public. Voucher auctions and private investment funds were then to follow in 1993, to
allow for diversification of shareholding portfolios and effective managerial oversight.
Eager to stop the looting of state property by insiders, the reformers saw the voucher
option for the MPP as the only realistic method to privatize quickly and fairly.
1.18  For very large firms it was recognized that the privatization process would be
complex and therefore would need to be conducted on a case-by-case basis. A
demonstration group of between 5 to 10 firms was to be selected by the end of 1992, with
piivatization progress made throughout 1993. To support the whole privatization effort
an appropriate legal environment was also to be established. This was to involve
revisions in the laws on enterprises, as well as new decrees on bankruptcy and
liquidation. By mid 1992 the Civil Code was in the process of revision to incorporate
modern principles of contract law and the transfer of property rights. These adjustments
in the legal environment were planned to be submitted for approval by the Supreme
Soviet by the end of 1992.



6
1.19 Anti-Monopoly Policies and Controls - Much of manufacturing, domestic trade
and parts of agriculture in Russia were characterized by high degrees of firm
concentration and vertical integration. At the regional level, many state enterprises were
effectively monopolies, and within the industrial sector the former branch ministries
provided a means of centralizing administration in a cartel-like relationship. These
institutional structures had proven to be very resistant to change. Attacks on these issues
took place on a number of fronts. Russia adopted anti-trust legislation in 1991.
Guidelines for the implementation of this anti-trust law were to be finalized and
disseminated in the later part of 1992. In addition, during the corporatization process,
large conglomerates were to be incorporated at the level of the smallest legal entities
within the enterprise. Investment trusts were to be regulated to ensure that diversified
portfolios were held, and identified cartels, particularly in distribution, were to be
dismantled. Finally, close coordination with the privatization program was to be
undertaken to ensure de-monopolization of medium and large-scale firms involved in the
privatization process.
1.20 Foreign Direct Investment. As of May 1992, the gross stock of FDI in Russia
amounted to US$3.4 billion, a very small fraction of the country's total capital stock. The
Government was quick to recognize that technology and managerial expertise associated
with FDI would provide a valuable contribution to the overall drive to improve factor
productivity and product quality and a foreign investment law to improve the enabling
environment for investment inflows was adopted in late 1991. Although there were no
restrictions on the repatriation of interest and dividends, by early 1992 this law already
proved inadequate and in need of amendments. Tax laws were also to be reviewed to
ensure non-discrimination, and bilateral tax treaties were to be finalized. Finally, in the
context of the privatization program, it was envisaged that foreign investors would be
given every opportunity to participate, with the rules and conditions for this participation
to be clarified and simplified.
1.21 Financial Sector Adjustment. From 1988 to 1991 over 1500 new banks were
licensed in the Russian Federation. Many of these banks were formed by enterprises as a
means to obtain finance through the central bank's refinance facilities. Supervision of
these banks was deficient, and given the economic reforms that occurred in 1991 and
1992, the underlying conditions facing these banks had changed dramatically. Holding of
ruble balances declined from 80 percent of GDP at the beginning of 1991 to roughly 15
percent of GDP by April 1992. Under these conditions many of these banks were
insolvent, although the Government at the time did not have the capacity to identify
which ones and thereby take remedial action. These problems were compounded by the
banks continuing to lend to enterprises in distress, with funds from the inter-bank market.
The fundamental difficulties of the Russian banking system at this time was intrinsically
linked to the problem of enterprise reform and the enforcement of hard budget
constraints. By mid-1992 the Government was in the process of developing an agenda of
reforms for the financial sector with specific recommendations for improvement. These
were to encompass revision of the banking act, the securities act, and the law on collateral
security and payment system issues. A revised system of auditing and accounting was
developed and was scheduled to be implemented in January 1993, with a new chart of



7
accounts to be adopted in March. Revisions in all the financial laws were expected by the
end of 1992.
1.22  The Social Safety Net. In the short run, price liberalization, enterprise
restructuring, and the removal of subsidies would adversely affect the living standards of
various sections of the population. The scope for supplementing incomes from informal
economic activity and savings was limited. The rapid rise of inflation in the latter part of
1991 and early 1992 had eroded savings and the nature of prior public sector employment
had limited the opportunity to accumulate assets. Therefore, an effective social safety net
was a crucial complement to any structural reform program, as its absence could erode
public support for the overall reform program. The social protection system Russia
inherited required major restructuring. Social benefits needed to be targeted to help those
most in need of assistance, such as the unemployed and poor households. Reforms were
needed in social insurance institutions to reduce the role previously played by enterprises
and improve the administrative capacity at the local government and national levels. In
the face of rapidly falling fiscal revenues, many competing demands on the federal
budget, and needed fiscal discipline, however, the government's strategy was to control
the budgetary demands of the social safety net through improved targeting and
rationalization of the extensive range of benefits that had been previously a function of
the Soviet system. As will be seen in Section 4 this objective proved to be elusive.
2.    The Rehabilitation Loans
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, 1992-95
2.1   Following an "approach" phase, during which the Bank studied for the first time
the Soviet economy and offered a grant for technical assistance and project preparation,
the Russian Federation officially joined the Bank on June 16, 1992. The subsequent
"learning and investing" phase from mid-1992 to mid-1995 began with the Bank
emphasizing analytical work and staff-level inputs to policy discussions, particularly on
the MPP. Given the consensus of the Bank's main shareholders, it also embarked on a
rapid expansion of lending.4 During the ensuing three years the portfolio swelled from
almost nil to a cumulative $4.6 billion.
2.2   Bank management was reluctant to provide large-scale budget support in the
absence of a credible stabilization and structural reform program. Still in August 1992, at
the request of the G-7 and in parallel with the first IMF-supported programn, the Bank
approved a $600 million Rehabilitation Loan (RL 1) with virtually no conditionalities.
On the other hand, Bank management held up Board submission of the Second
Rehabilitation Loan (RL II) until mid-1995, at which time a number of trade reforms had
been adopted and a new standby arrangement provided an IMF seal of approval for
Russia's macroeconomic management. During this period the Bank lent for 17
investment and technical assistance (TA) projects, in support of structural reforms
' Sources: OED interviews with Bank staff; U.S. GAO 2000 (p. 48); and information on the web page of the
University of Toronto's Library and G8 Research Group about G-7 meetings on April 26 and July 6-8, 1992 ($24
billion multilateral financial-aid package) and on April 14-15 and July 7-9 1993 ($43.4 billion emergency aid package).



8
(mostly in privatization), institutional development (including procurement, employment
services, pension payment administration, private and financial sector development, land,
agriculture, environment, housing, and tax administration) and infrastructure
rehabilitation (including oil fields, highways, and urban transport).
2.3    A "consolidation" phase followed, when a high share (65 percent) of project
commitments experienced serious implementation problems, as Russia's institutions were
not prepared to deal with the Bank's financial and administrative requirements.5 Hence,
from mid-1995 to early-1996, the Bank made only $27 million in new commitments to
Russia. This phase was marked by an intensification of supervision efforts, the start of
annual Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPRs) and major project
restructurings. Portfolio performance turned around by 1997. However, within a
declining administrative budget, portfolio management work crowded out analytical and
advisory services.6
The Rehabilitation Loans' Objectives
2.4    The main objectives of RL I were to support a mutually self-reinforcing program
of (a) macroeconomic stabilization in conjunction with the IMF and (b) structural
reforms. The structural reforms were aimed at improving the environment for
entrepreneurial activity and investment, both domestic and foreign, which was seen as
necessary to ensure progress toward a more open economy driven by market forces, as
well as to alleviate foreign exchange shortages. A centerpiece of the Government's
efforts was a large privatization program encompassing both large and small-scale
enterprises. In conjunction with this effort, a broad program of price liberalization was to
be undertaken, and foreign direct investment was to be encouraged through the creation
of a stable and transparent legal and taxation framework, together with trade liberalization
and financial sector reform. A final subsidiary objective of RL I was (c) to familiarize the
authorities with Bank lending operations, particularly with regard to procurement and
disbursement procedures.
2.5    This operation supported a general commitment by the Government to undertake
the policy reform outlined above, but there were no specific policy conditionalities or
tranches associated with the reform agenda.7 At the time the perceived need was for
quick disbursing financing for critical imports which in turn would limit the decline in
output expected following the introduction of economic reforms. The choice of a
"rehabilitation" loan, rather than a more conventional policy adjustment operation, was
based upon the belief that the necessary pre-conditions for standard adjustment lending
could not be met in Russia for some time given the evolving political situation.8
5 By mid-1995, the Bank had approved 20 loans for $4.6 billion but had disbursed a little more than $700 million.
6 The Bank spent $7.5 million during FY1993-94 on ESW, but only $1.6 million during FY1996-97 (in constant 2001
U.S. dollars).
7 The program of structural reforms agreed with the Govemment was documented in a "Memorandum on Economic
Reform Policies" submitted to the Bank on July 20, 1992 by Mr. Alexander Shokhin, Deputy Chairman of the Russian
Government.
8 For a more complete discussion of the use of rehabilitation loans, see "Rehabilitation Loans in Countries in
Transiton," SECM93-489, May 18, 1993.



9
2.6   This was the first loan by the Bank to the Russian Federation, preceded only by a
grant-financed TA project. It was designed at a time of massive economic instability,
with a strong sense of urgency underpinning the perceived needs for foreign currency to
finance critical imports to forestall the continuing decline in output. The structural
reform agenda set out at the time that the RL I was approved (August 1992) was
ambitious. The relevance of this reform agenda, given the objective of the transformation
of the Russian economy into one that was market driven, was high. But the complexity
of the needed institutional reform effort and the need for appropriate prioritization and
sequencing were not fully appreciated when this operation was designed. It was
explicitly recognized however that RL I represented only the start of a process in which
the Bank would be engaged with the Russian authorities in the ongoing transformation
agenda.
2.7   More than half the proposed $600 million loan was to finance pre-identified
imports ($345 million), and the remainder of the proceeds to be channeled into the
Moscow Inter-Bank Currency Exchange (MICEX) to finance private sector imports. For
the pre-identified portion, to simplify project implementation, it was decided to use
existing government institutions for purchase, shipment, and distribution, with technical
assistance provided by the U.K. Know How Fund to ensure that procurement and
disbursements followed standard Bank guidelines.
2.8   The objectives of RL II were to continue to support the Government's
macroeconomic stabilization program in 1995 together with a range of structural reform
initiatives. These latter initiatives were focused on trade policies, oil export procedures
and other pricing and pro-competition measures. The operation was designed as a single
tranche loan, with the reforms being completed prior to Board presentation. The loan was
prepared in close collaboration with the IMF, whose Board had recently approved (in
April 1995) a Stand-by Arrangement supporting a similar reform agenda.9
2.9   Preparation for this follow-up loan, however, was difficult and protracted. It was
originally negotiated in August 1993, but a deteriorating political environment and poor
macroeconomic management caused processing of the loan to be suspended until the
situation clarified. Processing was resumed in April 1994, but a further deterioration in
the overall macroeconomic environment in the Fall of 1994, as well as delays in
completing the agreed pre-Board actions, meant that Board presentation was postponed to
mid-1995. The Bank took the view that substantial progress needed to be made in the
variety of macroeconomic targets contained in the IMF Systemic Transformation Facility
program (particularly the second tranche requirements). This was never satisfactorily
resolved until there was an IMF Stand-by Arrangement in place by the second quarter of
1995.
2.10 In contrast to the first loan, RL II with its attendant policy dialogue focused more
intently upon liberalizing the trade regime given the difficulties encountered in this area
throughout 1993. The implementation difficulties encountered in the first loan affected
9 The Government's program of structural reforms was specified in the Government's Policy Memorandum entitled
"On Some Guidelines for Economic Policies in 1994-95," which was signed by Chairman Chernomyrdin on August
30, 1994.



10
the design and emphasis of the follow-up operation. More specific policy reform
achievements were sought prior to Board presentation, and a stronger effort was made to
identify key bottlenecks impeding an improvement in the overall macroeconomic
environment.
The Rehabilitation Loans' Implementation
2.11  Implementation of RL I did not proceed smoothly, which in part can be explained
by the Government's lack of familiarity with the Bank's procedures. Effectiveness was
delayed by five months due to the Government's concerns about the negative pledge
conditions contained in the loan agreement. Once effective (December 29, 1992),
however, the portion of the loan channeled to private importers disbursed rapidly (within
four months). The pre-identified component experienced an eight month delay, while
procedural difficulties in the formal establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
were ironed out and international competitive procedures were being introduced. This
delay meant that the bulk of the pre-identified imports did not arrive in Russia until early
1994 (about 15 months after effectiveness and 20 months after Board approval).
Furthermore, by the time the administrative impediments were resolved, the nature of the
foreign exchange market was such that commercial imports were readily available.
2.12  A further cause of delay in disbursement of RL Iwas the issue of sovereign
immunity, which if interpreted in a restrictive way would prevent line ministries from
incurring liabilities. Special project implementation units outside the government needed
to be appointed to carry out public procurement. Selection was slow, and preparation of
lists of eligible goods took longer than expected. Nonetheless, govermment compliance
with all legal covenants and audit reporting requirements was satisfactory. Once RL II
was approved by the Board, there were no disbursements difficulties or delays, given the
single tranche nature of this operation.
The Rehabilitation Loans' Achievements
2.13 While neither RL I nor RL I was designed as traditional policy based loans with
tranched disbursements against specific fulfillment of policy conditionality, the resource
transfer and the ongoing policy dialogue within the broad framework of the loans were
designed to further the macroeconomic and structural reform agenda.
2.14 Macroeconomic stabilization, however, was not achieved. In the early 1990s,
fiscal discipline remained elusive and the central banks in the ruble zone (dissolved in
1993) pursued a highly inflationary monetary expansion that spilled over into Russia.
Moreover, the central bank in July 1992 and a new government in December 1992
abandoned all efforts at credit restraint and establishing fiscal discipline. The
stabilization strategy finally adopted in 1995 with IMF support rested on three legs: fixing
the exchange rate as a nominal anchor, tightening credit to enterprises, and limiting
central bank credit to the treasury. This strategy succeeded in reducing annualized
monthly inflation to single digits by early 1998, but continuing large fiscal deficits fueled
unsustainable public debt dynamics and an increase in budget arrears and non-payment of
wages and pensions (see tables 2.1 and 2.2).



Table 2.1 Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (199001)
Russia Fiscal Year            1990 1991   1992  1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
GDP growth (annual %)           -3.0 -5.0  -14.5 -8.7 -12.6 -4.1 -3.4  0.9 -4.9  5.4  9.0  5.0
GNP per capita growth (annual %)  -3.6 -5.5  -15.3 -8.4 -12.5 -4.4 -3.5  0.7 -6.4  3.3  11.2  7.5
GNP, Atlas method (US$, billion)  .. $569  $469 $412 $343 $333 $348 $383 $331 $256 $246 $253
Inflation, (annual avg. CPI, %)  5.6 92.6 1,354.1 895.3 303.2 188.7 47.5 14.8 27.7 85.7 20.6 21.5
REER index (1997= 100)        161.2 121.5  16.5 34.0 56.6 68.0 91.7 100.0 72.0- 46.0 58.9 70.4
Real Wage Rate (annual growth)                        -8.0 -28.0  6.0  4.7 -13.4 -22.0 20.9
Corporate Profit, (% of GDP)                3.0  2.4   1.3  1.6  0.6  0.7   0.4  1.5  1.5
Investment (GDFI, % of GDP)      29   23     24   20   22   21    21   19   18    16   18   18
Exports (annual%growth)           .. -30.0  -28.7  2.1  3.3 10.3  8.7  4.6 -2.3 -1.7  2.7  2.8
Current account balance (%ofGDP)  ..  ..    0.1  0.7   2.0  1.7  2.5  0.4   0.3 10.5 16.1  11.2
Source: Official statistics and World Bank Unified Survey, 2002.
Table 2.2 - Selected Fiscal Indicators (1992-2001)
Russia Fiscal Year              1992   1993  1994  1995  1996   1997  1998  1999   2000  2001
Federal Govt. Balance (% of GDP)  -10.4  -65  -11.4  -5.7  -8.4  -7.1  -5.9  -4.2   0.9   2.7
Revenue(%ofGDP)              16.6  13.7  11.8   12.9  12.5  12.3  11.0   12.8  16.0  14.5
Expenditure (% of GDP)       27.0  20.2  23.2   18.6  20.9  19.4  16.9   17.1  15.1  14.5
Consolid. Govt. Balance (% of GDP)                        -8.9  -7.9  -8.0   -3.2   3.2   2.8
Revenue (% of GDP)                                    33.5  36.5  33.4   34.0  38.4  35.8
Expenditure (% of GDP)                                42.4  44.4  41.4   37.2  35.1  33.1
Source: IMF Staff Estimates.
2.15    Several tax measures were introduced to counteract the growing inability of the
federal government to collect tax revenues, which fell to less than 12 percent of GDP in
1994, but with declining output, weak tax administration and compliance, flaws in fiscal
federalism, and continuous tax exemptions for inefficient enterprises, government
revenues remained low.
2.16    Expenditures were also cut, especially in military spending, subsidies, and
investment, but not commensurately with the fall in tax revenues. Moreover, although
income transfers under various social welfare programs absorbed 8 percent of GDP in
1995, most of these resources were not targeted to the households most in need of such
assistance, leaving them with inadequate support. For example, the minimum pension
amounted to only 80 percent of the minimum subsistence level for the elderly at the end
of 1996, while the minimum unemployment benefit covered only 15 percent of the
subsistence level.
2.17 After a tight monetary policy was imposed in early 1995, continuing large deficit
financing shifted to new sources: (a) domestic and (after 1996) foreign portfolio
investors, who bought high-yielding, short-tern, local-currency government securities
(GKOs and OFZs) and Eurobonds; (b) the IMF and the Bank, whose annual net resource
transfer during 1995-97 was equivalent to 1.1 percent of GDP; and (c) foreign
governments, mainly through debt rescheduling. 10 Despite the external financing, these
' During 1996, the Government reached agreements with the Paris and London Clubs on a multi-year debt
rescheduling program for about $72 billion of Soviet-era external debt, representing roughly 70 percent of the
outstanding stock. In addition, the Government received an internationally recognized credit rating in October 1996



12
deficits caused domestic real interest rates to exceed 80 percent in mid-1996, increasing
the cost of domestic debt service for the budget and crowding-out lending to the private
sector. Although rates declined during the latter part of 1996, inter-bank lending rates
still equaled about 25 percent in real terms in early 1997.
2.18   Progress in the structural reform agenda supported by the rehabilitation loans was
mixed. Annexes C and D provide a detailed listing of the reforms undertaken through
1997. Progress was made in privatization (although the process was marked by
controversy about its transparency and equity), and trade and price liberalization, but the
business climate remained poor.
2.19   By the mid-1990s the private sector was contributing more than 70 percent of
GDP. Most enterprises had been sold or otherwise transferred out of state hands, mostly
to their workers, but without prior restructuring and break-up to enhance competition.
Much of this transfer was done through the MPP. Eager to stop the looting of state
property by insiders, the reformers saw the voucher option for the MPP as the only
realistic method to privatize quickly and fairly. Transferring economic assets to private
hands was expected to create a strong constituency for the necessary legislative and
institutional changes that would underpin enterprise restructuring. But involvement by
outside investors was minimal, due primarily to management's opposition and the
decision to allow majority employee ownership. Enterprise managers eventually
succeeded in controlling most privatized enterprises.1' Subsequent efforts at case-by-
case, cash privatization included the loans-for-shares (LFS) scheme, through which the
Government divested itself in 1995-96 of 13 large and valuable companies, mostly in the
petroleum and metals sectors. This divestiture was done in a non-transparent way, and
for only a fraction of the market value of the companies involved.
2.20 Entry, enterprise development, and FDI, however, have been discouraged by
corruption, poor macroeconomic management, unreliable enforcement, and unclear and
conflicting laws and regulations, particularly those related to property and shareholders'
rights. Furthermore, large Government domestic borrowing in an enviromnent of
generally tight monetary control led to high real interest rates (exceeding 80 percent in the
summer of 1996) and a crowding out of private sector borrowing. The high costs of entry
and doing business, including bureaucratic harassment, discouraged small and medium
enterprise (SME) growth. The same factors have constrained Intemational Finance
Corporation (IFC) and Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) activities and,
thanks also to continuing soft budget constraints, allowed enterprise restructuring to
proceed very slowly.
2.21 The accumulated stock of FDI since 1991 equaled roughly $6 billion in early-
1997, well below the experience of eastern European countries such as Poland and
Hungary. Even in the oil sector, where there was initially strong interest by foreign
investors, the stock of FDI was only $1.6 billion at the end of 1996, and declined in
absolute terms between 1993 and 1995. As a result, oil production, which provides
and mnade its debut in the Eurobond market, with the successful placement of a five-year bond issue for $1 billion at
345 basis points above 5-year U.S. Treasuries.
" For the critical reviews by Stiglitz and Ellerman and their suggested alternative, see Annex I, para. 29 (page 49) and
Annex 7, para 3 (page 59) of the Russia Country Assistance Evaluation by OED.



13
nearly 25 percent of export earnings, had fallen by almost 50 percent in the mid-1990s
from its peak level in 1988.
2.22 Russia made rapid progress in liberalizing its domestic and foreign trade and its
payment regime. On the import side, the tariff structure was largely rationalized by 1995,
with the import-weighted average duty rate at 13-14 percent with a standard deviation of
about 7 percent. Remaining export taxes on oil and oil products were abolished in 1996.
The growth of exports outpaced that of imports. The current account balance was
positive throughout the decade, and foreign trade amounted to 45 percent of GDP by
1996-97, before the run-up in oil prices. There was a substantial change in the
geographical composition of trade, with CIS countries accounting for just 20-30 percent
of Russia's exports and imports by 1996.
2.23   On the other hand, exports remain to date dominated by raw materials, of which
natural gas, crude and refined petroleum products are the major component, while
machinery and foodstuffs are the leading imports. In late 1996 and throughout 1997, a
large portion of oil exports (25 percent) was still effectively under a quota system given
that it was earmarked for "state needs.". Finally, high subsidization of the domestic
economy through price distortions and arrears in the energy sector was at the root of the
economy-wide system of "non-payments" and barter, which greatly distorted economic
policies and enterprises and consumers' economic decisions and helped conceal fraud and
tax evasion.'2
2.24 The process of reform had been made substantially more difficult, however, by the
continuing economic decline. By the mid-1990s, measured GDP had fallen by 40 percent
in real terms since 1991, although the large changes in relative prices and the rise of a
large unofficial economy make comparisons of economic estimates before and after 1990
unreliable. Moreover, the impact on household welfare has been partially offset by a
sharp decline in military and other non-productive expenditures, resulting in an increase
in the share of private consumption in GDP. Despite widespread expectations in 1995 of
a resumption of growth, GDP declined further by 3.4 percent in 1996. Manufacturing
industries, particularly engineering products and textiles, were the most affected by the
economic decline, while export-oriented sectors such as energy and metals were relatively
more successful. A few sectors of the Russian economy, especially those dealing with
finance and trade, had expanded during the early part of the transition, but large portions
of the economy were stalled in a web of slack production, depressed investment, and
arrears among enterprises, households and governments at all levels. The share of barter
transactions in the economy peaked at 54 percent and total domestic payment arrears rose
to about 40 percent of GDP in August 1998.
2.25 Unemployment did not increase as rapidly as the decline in GDP, although 1996
surveys indicated that 9.6 percent of the labor force was unemployed. The labor market
displayed a high degree of flexibility, not only in terms of real wages but also of hours of
work and access to secondary employment in the informal sector. However, locational
12 Gas and electricity monopolies, which had low marginal costs and were not allowed to stop supplying non-paying
customers, found that their cash collections declined to only 12 or 13 percent of domestic sales. Coal companies with
their high operating costs received direct government subsidies, which at one point were absorbing almost 2 percent of
GDP, and still had massive back-wage obligation to their workers.



14
disadvantages, such as single company towns, were, and remain a serious problem in
some areas. Moreover, different surveys estimated that 25-35 percent of the population
was living in poverty in 1996. Many households had experienced at least transitory
episodes of economic insecurity as a result of wage and pension arrears, which needed to
be addressed in part through structural reforms. There were a large number of severely
disadvantaged households, including female-headed households with young children, the
handicapped and elderly households receiving a minimum pension below subsistence
levels. Inequality had doubled by 1993 to Latin American levels and remained high (the
Gini coefficient was estimated at 0.46 in 1993 and 0.47 in 1998). Human development
indicators had shown a sharp deterioration between the mid-1980s and the first half of the
1990s.
3.     The Structural Adjustment Loans
The Bank's Assistance Strategy, 1996-97
3.1    The "renewed lending" phase began in March 1996, when the Bank came under
renewed pressure to lend following approval by the IMF of a three-year, $10.1 billion
Extended Financing Facility (EFF). 13 New commitments by the Bank over the next two
years amounted to $5.3 billion, much of it ($3.5 billion) for five quick-disbursing
adjustment operations. In the four months prior to the July 1996 presidential elections,
the authorities moved forward with important decisions and the Bank approved $1.4
billion for investment and technical assistance (TA) projects (for enterprise housing
divestment, capital market development, legal reform, and medical equipment) and $0.5
billion for a Coal Sectoral Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL 1). This phase also signaled
enhanced attention to the social sectors.
3.2    Until early 1997, the Bank had not taken part in the high-level discussions
between the Government and the IMF on the structural reform agenda. Its contribution
had been indirect through economic and sector work (ESW) and background inputs to the
IMF. In his State of the Union address in early 1997, President Yeltsin signaled his
determination to accelerate the pace of economic reform and in March 1997 the new
government led by Prime Minister Chernomyrdin appointed key reformers as deputy
prime ministers. In their initial public statements newly-appointed members of the
Government stressed achieving a sustainable fiscal balance, resolving wage and pension
arrears, speeding up the process of privatization and enterprise restructuring, resolving the
policy framework for natural monopolies, and paying particular attention to addressing
social concerns and streamlining the social safety net. The Bank perceived a new
window of opportunity and through December approved loans for an additional $3.4
billion. Of this amount, $3.0 billion was the first installment on a multi-year program of
expanded adjustment lending ($1.2-$2 billion annually) to support stabilization and tax
13 The EFF was to support further reductions of import duties, accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO),
improvements in liquidity and solvency of banks, strengthening of supervisory capacity and application of prudential
regulations by the CBR, fair and transparent cash privatization, agricultural reform, development of land and securities
markets, liquidation or reorganization of insolvent enterprises, and protection of outside investors.



15
reform; elimination of budget arrears; transparent case-by-case privatizations; pricing
reforms and competitive restructurings in power, natural gas and railways; banking
reform (SALs I and Il); social protection reform (Social Protection Adjustment Loan or
SPAL); and further coal sector reform (Coal SECAL II).
3.3   The 1997 CAS called for the Bank Group to move forward more aggressively
with policy advice, technical assistance, and financial instruments to support private
sector investments in natural resources, manufacturing, banking, and consumer industries.
The IFC increased its gross investment approvals in Russia to more than $200 million.
Demand for MIGA's political risk coverage also rose. With a gross exposure outstanding
of about $260 million, Russia is today MIGA's fourth largest client.
3.4   The 1997 CAS also placed great emphasis on regional infrastructure projects
(water and sanitation, district heating, urban transport, and highway rehabilitation).
Providing assistance to the regions had become popular among donors in the mid- and
late-1990s. Subnational units were expected to compete for externally funded projects,
based on their interest and commitment to reform. Support for environmental activities,
including through the Global Environment Facility (GEF) was highlighted. Finally, the
strategy called for selective Bank assistance to high-priority institution-building programs
(including legal reform, financial sector development, and science and technology).
3.5   The rationale for the Bank's adjustment lending was explicitly fiscal assistance, as
there was no balance-of-payment need, based on three considerations: (a) the cost of
financing the existing deficit; (b) the additional fiscal cost of structural reforms and fiscal
consolidation; and (c) the Bank's commitment to support Russia as part of an
international collaborative agreement. These elements are explicit in the SAL I
President's Report to the Board (paras 88-90) and are repeated in the SAL II President's
Report (paras 117-119).
3.6   In some cases, the structural reforms would have negative fiscal consequences in
the short term, such as when replacing implicit or regulatory subsidies by explicit
subsidies in the budget, eliminating arrears, and introducing a new rationalized tax code
with lower marginal tax rates. The fall back options would have been for the
Government to issue additional short-term ruble-denominated debt (e.g., GKOs) or to rely
on monetary financing. The first option would have further driven up real interest rates
and crowded out private investment. The second would have undermined the gains made
in inflation control and exchange rate stability. To avoid these unpleasant alternatives,
the government aggressively sought financing from external sources, including the
multilateral institutions. The SALs were seen as part of this financing package.
The SALs' Objectives
3.7   SAL Iwas a single-tranche loan for general budget support, with conditions of
Board presentation. It was one of the adjustment operations in support of the reform
programn, to be accompanied and followed by other SALs and SECALs (in coal,
agriculture, and social protection) that would continue support for the implementation of
the reform program. This loan was approved on June 5, 1997. Final disbursement of the
single-tranche took place on June 17, 1997. The IBRD loan complemented the EFF



16
program by the IMF (approved in March 1996 for US$2 billion). SAL II was approved
on December 18, 1997 as a two back-to-back tranches operation, due to the rush to give a
signal to the international capital markets and disburse some of the money in advance of
full compliance with all of the loan conditions. Final disbursement took place on January
23, 1998. De-facto, it was a single-tranche operation like SAL I.
3.8   The objectives of SAL I were to assist a new reform-minded Government to:
*  Stabilize the economy. While monetary restraint had brought down inflation to
48 percent in 1996, macroeconomic stability was under threat from a persistent
and high fiscal deficit largely financed with short-term debt instruments carrying
high interest rates.
*  Begin deep policy and institutional reforms aimed at having a major direct
positive impact on the structural fiscal balance, at imposing financial discipline on
the enterprise sector, and at advancing competitive enterprise and market
development in four areas:
(a) Reform of Natural Monopolies (electric power, natural gas, and railway
sectors): (i) introduce competition where possible, (ii) reduce subsidies and
move prices towards economic costs, (iii) improve the regulatory process,
(iv) reduce payment arrears, and (iv) divest selected operations;
(b) Private Sector Development: (i) establish a credible case-by-case privatization
program, (ii) improve the competitive environment and the management of
state assets, (iii) promote urban land and real estate markets to facilitate the
ownership of land by privatized enterprises, (iv) create a leasing market for
commercial real estate, (v) improve the allocation and use of undeveloped
land; and (vi) introduce international accounting standards (IAS);
(c) Fiscal Reform: (i) reform the overall tax structure, (ii) improve tax
administration, (iii) strengthen budget management, including the elimination
of budgetary arrears, and (iv) reform inter-governmental fiscal relations;
(d) Banking Sector Reform: (i) deal with problem banks and deposit protection,
(ii) improve prudential regulation and supervision, and (iii) improve the
functioning of money markets and payment systems.
3.9   The stated objectives of SAL IIwere similar to those of the first operation. On the
structural front, SAL II supported further measures to advance the reform agenda in the
same four areas as under the previous operation. Some post-disbursement measures
envisaged under SAL Ibecame conditions of Board presentation of SAL II, while other
post-disbursement measures under SAL I remained as such under SAL II. In addition, a
fifth area was added:
(e) Trade Policy Reform: (i) maintain a liberalized trade regime, no quantitative
restrictions, and price-based protection where necessary, (ii) harmonize
standards with international practice, (iii) expand production sharing
agreements, (iv) implement a market-based system for oil transport, and (v)
phase out the oil export for "state needs" program.



17
3 10  Finally, there was another unstated purpose for SAL II, but arguably the most
important in explaining its rushed approval:
* Resist speculative pressures on the ruble (the first attacks happened in November
1997) stemming from the spillover of the East Asia crisis and from mounting
investors' doubts about fiscal sustainability. A balance-of-payment support
rationale, however, was not acknowledged by the Bank, as it projected the current
account to move structurally only to a small deficit position of 0.5 percent of GDP
in 1998.
The SALs' Achievements, 1997-98
3.11  Macroeconomic objectives were not achieved and there was limited
implementation of agreed steps on structural reform, due to the opposition of key
stakeholders, with a correspondingly negligible impact on the economy. During 1997,
inflation decreased substantially (to 10.9 percent by year-end from 21.8 percent the year
before) and GDP growth turned (slightly) positive for the first time since the transition
began (to 0.9 percent from -3.4 percent the year before). Both aggregates reversed
direction in 1998, however, with end-year inflation at 84.5 percent and growth at
-4.9 percent. While such dismal performance was aggravated by the spillover effects of
the 1997 East Asia financial crisis and worsening terms of trade, Russia proved unable to
reverse declining revenue collection, including cash collections, and tackle its fiscal
imbalances through 1997 (with SAL I in place), the first part of 1998 (SAL II) and the rest
of 1998 (SAL III). The consolidated fiscal balance had improved only slightly in 1997 (to
-7.9 percent of GDP from -8.9 percent in 1996, compared to the target of 5-6 percent)
and remained around -8 percent in 1998 (compared to the target of 5.7 percent), thus
keeping the economy on an unsustainable debt path. By mid-1998, debt service absorbed
40 percent of federal government's revenues.
3.12 The fiscal slippage and low world prices for Russia's exports required increasing
external borrowing to keep the progressively tncompetitive fixed exchange rate. In
August 1998 the stabilization and structural adjustment program collapsed, triggered by
declines in oil prices and the spillover of the East Asia crisis that undermined investor
confidence.14 Russia had no choice but to default on its debt and float the ruble (which
depreciated by over 60 percent), leading to the insolvency of most banks, a spike in
inflation, and a severe, albeit short-lived, recession.
3.13 Reform of Natural Monopolies. There was no progress during 1997 and 1998 to
i,mprove cash collection and to further competition and, to date, to reform the railway and
gas sectors, despite some improvements in pricing methodology applied by the Federal
Energy Commission. Very limited progress was made in competitive restructuring and
in the reduction of barriers to new entrants, as well as in divestitures on non-naturally
monopolistic segments. For example, a decree was issued to allow independent gas
producers access to Gazprom's transmission network, but access remained on paper. SAL
II, nonetheless, may have helped prevent the adoption by the Duma of a discriminatory
14 The ECA Region noted in its comments on the CAE that Russia could well have been on a path of sustained growth
two years earlier, had it not been for the impact of the East Asia crisis.



18
gas supply law supported by Gazprom. More significant progress on methodology and
pricing actions took place in 1998 in electricity, including on cross-subsidization. An
Independent Financial Operator was established to get the power wholesale market
operating. However, a wholesale market for power is still elusive.
3.14 Private Sector Development. Despite an improved institutional and legislative
framework for case-by-case privatization in 1997, SAL I targets for privatization were not
met and actions in other areas were limited to progress in drafting legislation and other
preparatory work. Under SAL II case-by-ease privatization remained stalled. In other
areas, some relevant intermediate steps were taken. For example, a new bankruptcy law
was enacted, work continued on introducing international accounting standards, and a
presidential decree was issued to establish a legal framework for market-based sales of
undeveloped land (requiring further legislation for such sales to take place). However,
failure to follow-up on implementation meant no results and no impact on private sector
development.
3.15 Fiscal Reform. Some reforms were formulated, but implementation was
-disappointing. Legislation regulating sub-national borrowing and tax sharing was adopted
in September 1997. Reform proposals were submitted to the State Duma regarding the
Tax Code, but these were only partially adopted in mid-1998 (and finally adopted in mid-
2000) and many other key revenue reforms failed. Parliament rejected the proposed
expansion of the base for the personal income tax, the increase in the land tax, and the
expansion of the base for the payroll tax. Measures to address tax and utility payment
arrears of large corporations fell short in implementation. Expenditure ceilings were
adhered to only on a cash basis. Federal wage and pension arrears were cleared by end-
1997, but suppliers' arrears continued to mount.
3.16 Banking Reform. While limited advances in improving the payments system and
in CBR performance were made, progress in improving supervision, prudential
regulations, and financial intermediation was negligible. For example, under SAL I the
CBR agreed to on-site supervision of at least 15 of the largest 100 banks in each quarter
of 1997 and under SAL II it agreed to the identification of 27 problem banks among the
top 200 banks, and the withdrawal of licenses of 10 banks. However, these steps were
inadequate to address the serious shortfalls in the sector.
3.17 Trade Policy Reform. A liberalized environment was maintained, but most of the
important reforms in the sector occurred prior to 1997-98. SAL II did promote reforms to
bring technical and product labeling standards in line with international practice, and the
emerging framework for "trade safeguards" (anti-dumping, countervailing duties, etc.)
was made more consistent with international norms. Proposed principles for a market-
based system for oil transport were published, but such system has yet to be implemented.
3.18  Cumulative Economic, Institutional, and Social Impact. Despite the structural
reforms that had occurred, the Bank's country policy and institutional assessment in the
late 1990s through 2001 have put Russia in the middle among transition economies, with
high scores for the shift of production towards the private sector and price liberalization,
but low scores for financial sector development, competition policy, enterprise reform,
corporate govemance, environmental sustainability, property rights, and public sector



19
governance (transparency, accountability, and corruption). EBRD transition indicators
portray a similar picture.
3.19  Over the past decade, Russia's GNP per capita declined substantially, by more
than 50 percent according to official statistics (see table 2.1). While the decline in
consumption was more modest, the impact on poverty, income distribution, equity, and
human development has been large, both in absolute terms and relative to other transition
economies. In mid-1999, 55 percent of the population, especially children and the
elderly, was living in absolute deprivation.'5 Inequality had remained stable since 1993 at
double pre-transition levels (see para. 2.25). Human development indicators recovered
only modestly from their lows in the early 1990s. Health and education indicators
dropped, the quality of services worsened, and social and geographical disparities in
access grew.
3.20  By 1998 the gains from the transition included the elimination of shortages of
consumer goods; greatly improved quality and variety of goods and services; ownership
titles to housing for most households; greater social mobility no longer shackled by
pervasive administrative restrictions; and expanded access to the domestic political
process and global information. New employment services were established,
administration of pension benefits improved, and social assistance became better targeted.
However, proposed reforms of the labor laws and the pension system had not been
adopted, and absolute levels of social benefits remained low.
Recent Developments, 199942
3.21  The Primakov government that came to power following the 1998 crisis was
widely expected to pursue lax monetary and fiscal policies. Instead, it improved fiscal
discipline, kept a lid on inflation, allowed only a moderate amount of food aid so as not to
damage agricultural producers' incentives, and abstained from reversing liberalization
and other reforms. Unlike other countries which experienced financial crises during the
1990s, Russia overcame the 1998 crisis quickly and without international financial
assistance. In mid-2000 the Kasyanov government endorsed a comprehensive medium-
term program of policy and institutional reforms. Important reforms have since been
adopted, including in tax policy, urban land sales, pension system, land code, and
business deregulation. Some, including tax reform, have been successfully implemented.
3.22 The last three years have seen strong economic performance. Good fiscal
mnanagement, large balance-of-payments surpluses, and an impressive output recovery
have been accompanied by an improvement in business confidence and a drastic
reduction of barter and enterprise payment arrears. Poverty incidence has declined
sharply (from its peak in mid-1999 to 33 percent by end-2000, according to official
estimates). The economy has been boosted by higher world energy prices and improved
competitiveness of the non-oil export sector, thanks to the 1998 devaluation. Political
stability and a broader consensus on reform have also played significant roles. Russia has
effectively moved from a centrally planned to a market economy, albeit with considerable
I5 The corresponding share for 1997 was 32 percent. Given methodological changes, these poverty estimates are not
comparable with those available for previous years.



20
distortions and weak social services and safety net. Policy, institutional, and ownership
changes have gone too far to be reversed.
4.    Overall Assessment
The Rehabilitation Loans
4.1   The February 1997 ICRs for these operations rated the projects' outcome as
satisfactory, their sustainability as likely, and the achievement of the institutional
development (ID) objective of RL I as substantial. Bank performance was similarly rated
as satisfactory (with the supervision component of RL I rated as highly satisfactory).
Borrower performance was also rated as satisfactory (with the preparation component of
RL I rated as deficient). OED concurred with these ratings in its June 1997 desk review
of the ICRs. The ICR for RL II marked the achievement of ID objectives as not
applicable. OED instead rated ID impact of RL II as modest, in light of some changes that
had been adopted to the legal and regulatory environment. As a result of the deeper and
later scrutiny of the Bank assistance under the PPAR- and CAE-related work conducted
during 1999-02, this PPAR downgrades a number of these ratings (Bank and Borrower
perforrnance ratings are discussed in the next chapter).
4.2   Outcome. The RLs were designed to start a process of structural change in an
economic system with distorted prices and pervasive resource allocation anomalies.
These types of operations were considered vital in providing the foundations for sustained
reform and in providing budget support during a period of economic and fiscal revenue
decline. Trade and price liberalization, privatization, and macroeconomic stabilization
were all essential for a restoration of growth in Russia.
4.3   Thus, RL I was highly relevant, in the face of the extremely complex nature of the
task of transforming this command economy into one driven by market forces. This loan
provided a positive, albeit modest, contribution to the shift to a private sector led
economy and to the high degree of market liberalization that was achieved in Russia
between 1991 and 1994. Positive benefits also accrued from changes in state
procurement practices. The weaknesses in fiscal management were reasonably expected
to be addressed under IMF programs and in other structural policy and institutional areas
by contemporary and subsequent Bank loans. The broad objectives of RL II were still
highly relevant, but the rationale and design of this loan are more questionable, as the
weaknesses in fiscal management and other structural policy and institutional areas could
have been better addressed. Thus, its overall relevance is rated as substantial.
4.4   In the event, the policy changes achieved under both loans did little to address the
key fiscal and institutional weaknesses undermining the country's transition to a market
based economy. In both cases, efficacy was modest. Thus, combining the above-
mentioned relevance and efficacy ratings, the outcome of RL I is rated as moderately
satisfactory, and the outcome of the RL HIis rated as moderately unsatisfactory. 6
16 OED rates outcome on a six-point scale of highly satisfactory, satisfactory, moderately satisfactory, moderately
unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, and highly unsatisfactory.



21
4.5    Institutional Development Impact. Neither loan had a significant ID objective,
with the exception of capacity building for international competitive bidding (ICB) in
state procurement under RL I, a goal that was realized. Other than this, ID impact
(including beyond the stated objectives) was limited; hence ID impact for RL 1 was
modest and for RL II negligible. 7
4.6    Sustainability. Through 1998, the limited achievements in the macroeconomic
arena (that is, low inflation after 1995) to which the RLs contributed were unlikely to be
sustained, while the sustainability of the limited achievements in the structural arena was
uncertain. However, no major structural reform adopted and implemented was ever
reversed, even if there were various periods of slow progress or episodes of straying from
the path of reform (e.g., the loans-for-shares scheme). Thus, with the benefit of hindsight
and giving more weight to the structural reforms undertaken and sustained under these
loans than to the poor macroeconomic environment through 1998, the overall
sustainability of the limited achievements of these loans is rated as likely. This confirms
ex-post the previous evaluators' optimism.'8
The Structural Adjustment Loans
4.7    Outcome. On the basis of the ratings of the elements comprising outcome, that is
modest relevance (marginally so for SAL II), modest efficacy, and non-evaluable'9
efficiency, this evaluation supports a rating of unsatisfactory outcome for both operations,
which is consistent with OED's review of the ICR. The ECA Region, instead, had rated
their outcome satisfactory in the ICR.
4.8    The fiscal and structural objectives of both SALs I and II were relevant to the
needs of the country, although trade liberalization had been largely achieved in previous
years and, in hindsight, defending the current fixed nominal exchange rate after at least
two years of real appreciation was neither desirable nor feasible. However, the
operations' timing, size, and design were faulty. The SALs' assumption about the speed
with which the reforms could proceed and achieve their stated objectives was unrealistic
and raised expectations that were sure to be disappointed. The Bank assumed reforms in
all the chosen areas could move in a couple of years from (a) design to (b) embodiment in
relevant legislation or directives to (c) passage by the relevant bodies such as the State
Duma to (d) administrative implementation. It assumed quick passage of legislation by
the State Duma, whose majority was known to oppose the Government's political and
economic agenda. While the Bank got sequencing right, given that most actions under
the SALs I and II were necessarily either preparatory first steps or legislative proposals,
the size of these operations and the front-loading of disbursements was inappropriate.
4.9    The design of the SALs has also been criticized on the basis of their being too
broad, covering too many areas of reform. The needed reforms in Russia were of a
"general equilibrium" nature, with reforms in each of the chosen areas having positive
17 OED rates ID impact on a four-point scale of high, substantial, modest, and negligible.
Is OED rates sustainability on a five-point scale of highly likely, likely, unlikely, highly unlikely, and non-evaluable.
19 Since the net benefits to the country of reforms are very difficult to quantify and the size of adjustment loans is
largely related to ex-ante projections of balance-of-payments and budgetary financing gaps, the efficiency of
adjustment operations is usually not rated by OED.



22
implications for the success of reforms in the other areas. Thus, the ambitious and multi-
sectoral reach of the reform program was appropriate. Nonetheless, parallel SECALs
instead of SALs might have been better suited to the Russian environment, as they would
have been both more manageable and would have allowed more "ownership" of the
sectoral reforms by the line ministries and agencies affected. This has been indeed the
case for the Coal SECAL, but not for the SPAL. Thus, the evidence is mixed on this
question. In hindsight, small TA projects would have been the better choice for 1997, as
the Russian political system was not yet ready to move on the reforn agenda.
4.10 On balance, efficacy of both loans was modest, as their limited achievements
through mid-1998 pale compared to their shortcomings. Significant results under SAL I
were fiscal expenditure restraint, the elimination of federal wage and pension arrears,
legislation reforming inter-governmental relations, and partial electricity pricing reform.
There was progress on other fronts (adoption of a framework for case-by-case
privatization and preparation of other legislative measures), but it did not carry through to
implementation. Under SAL II, pricing and institutional reforms were continued in
electricity. A new bankruptcy law was enacted. Wage and pension payments remained
current. Regarding land, there was progress in preparing legislation. It has been also
argued that the SALs' focus on transparent privatization contributed to preventing a
repetition of the loans-for-shares deals. Finally, the groundwork carried out under these
loans for tax, land sale, and other reforms has borne some fruits since 2000.
4.11  As discussed in the preceding chapter, however, there was virtually no
implementation of the important agreed reforms, including inadequate fiscal and other
policy adjustments to the deterioration in international commodity prices and to the
mounting capital flight and speculative attacks on the fixed nominal exchange rate.
There was minimal or no follow-on implementation of the medium-term structural reform
program through June 1998, before the Board presentation conditions for SAL III forced
another round of partial and inadequate reforms. Both 1997 and 1998 were characterized
by poor and deteriorating revenue collections, large capital outflows, unreformed natural
monopolies, no transparent privatizations, and a banking sector with little capacity to
provide normal banking services and increasing vulnerability to exchange rate volatility.
SAL II moreover contributed to further appreciation of the real exchange rate during the
first half of 1998, and thus to the worsening of competitiveness in domestic and foreign
markets for Russian manufacturing enterprises.
4.12 Institutional Development Impact. The SALs I and II were designed to produce
substantial ID impact. However, most of the policy and institutional changes designed to
improve the rules of the game, organizational incentives, and capacity building were not
implemented. Given the limited achievements discussed in the previous chapter, the
rating for ID impact cannot be more than modest.
4.13  Sustainability. A month after the closing of SAL II, the August 1998 crisis
engulfed the economy. This was in part the consequence of the lack of fiscal adjustment
during the SALs. The crisis made the sustainability of the structural part of the SALs I and
II program tenuous through mid-1999. But there was little retreat from the reform
program that was (partially) in place. The rebound from the macro crisis has been
relatively speedy. The reform process, broadly conceived, has become embedded in



23
economic thinking in the elite. The idea of structural reform has taken solid root. Thus,
the reaction to the crisis and subsequent events indicate that the limited achievements and
the general direction reform under SALs I and II are likely to be sustained.
5.    Contributions to Development Effectiveness
Borrower Performance20
5.1   The main reason for the poor transition outcomes in Russia through 1998 lies in
the difficult political climate for reform due to the political instability and the highly
complex governance issues. Both the Government (to be understood as including all
arms and all levels) and the country were divided on the best transition path to a market
economy. On any issue, various interest groups, including powerful factions in the State
Duma, regional political figures, line ministries, vested private economic interests, the
"oligarchs," and criminal elements, enjoyed the ability to co-opt, delay, or block almost
any policy initiative. Reformers in government were willing to commit to reform, but in
general unable to forge a consensus that would support their strong implementation.
5.2   Through 1999, the Russian Federation failed to adopt many of the fiscal and
structural reforms (beyond price and trade liberalization and privatization) necessary for
macroeconomic stabilization and growth, despite its promises to the international
financial institutions. These were the same reforms that it finally embraced in 2001-02.
In particular, government institutions, policies, and regulations perpetuated soft budget
constraints for enterprises and banks and tolerated a dramatic increase in barter and in tax,
wages, pensions, and suppliers' arrears within the public sector and among energy and
infrastructure monopolies.2' In the hands of managers incapable of or unwilling to
restructure and under pressure from import liberalization, shrinking private and public
demand, the real appreciation of the ruble, and the high real interest rates, enterprises and
banks readily seized on the government's political unwillingness to cause bankruptcies
and root out the "non-payments system".
5.3   Thus, considering the scope and speed of the early privatization and price and
trade liberalization reforms, Borrower performance is rated on balance as satisfactory for
RL I. But for all other three subsequent operations (RL II and SALs I and Ll), the weight
of the Government's role in the failed macroeconomic stabilization, the shortcomings in
the privatization program, and the missed structural policy and institutional reforms
justify an unsatisfactory performance rating.
5.4   An example of the difficulties of reform due to the complex governance system
and the political economy of Russia is provided by the Bank-supported attempt to "clean
up" the banking system. The Government developed a law on bank bankruptcy under
SAL I in 1997. The State Duma did not pass it until March 1999. The law mandated a
bank restructuring organization, ARKO, which began operations in June 1999.
Meanwhile, a leak of the central bank's study identifying the "problem banks," which
20 This is rated on a four-point scale of highly satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, and highly unsatisfactory.
21 Federal wages and pension arrears were cleared in 1997 and did not re-accumulate thereafter.



24
were candidates for restructuring by ARKO, provided a signal for these banks to move
their assets to "shadow" banks, leaving ARKO larger net liabilities. Given its limited
budget, this created an incentive for ARKO to proceed slowly, if at all. The banks whose
licenses CBR and ARKO had revoked under the new law appealed to the Supreme Court,
which found flaws in the law and restored the licenses. Proposed legal amendments to
meet the Court's objection have been pending before the Duma since.
5.5   A second example also relates to the financial sector. In parallel with SALs I and
II, the Bank provided substantial TA for banking reform. A key factor in the failure of
these efforts was a massive and chronic failure of strategic and operational coordination.
The Ministry of Finance and the CBR were not pursuing a common strategy for
strengthening the banking sector; coordination among donors as well as among different
units within the Bank was weak; and supervision within the Bank was not as close as it
should have been.
5.6   The role of interests groups, and particularly of private sector special interests, in
influencing both the executive and the legislature undermined Borrower ownership and
the capacity of the core economic ministries to get the SAL program adopted by other
parts of government and the legislature. The SAL program was (correctly) seen as
eliminating economic rents without compensation to the losers, while the Government
did not sell well to the public and the beneficiaries the potential "general equilibrium"
efficiency gains from structural reform. Through mid-1999, none of the Bank or IMF
documents, for instance, were disclosed to allow the general public a full appreciation of
the aims, the coverage, and the costs and benefits of the agreed reforms programs.
5.7   In 1997, moreover, the Government only agreed to conditions for the
disbursements of SALs I and II related to preparing the program and submitting
legislation to the State Duma. While the Government thus was able to meet the letter of
the agreed conditionalities, it failed at meeting their spirit through effective consensus-
building and strong post-disbursement implementation of follow-up actions. The
Government was unable to improve revenue collection and reduce the fiscal deficit as
called for under the agreed program with the IMF, thus exacerbating the underlying
unsustainable public debt dynamics. Similarly, the Duma agreed to the negotiated
program in principle, but it rejected specific legislation in several areas. The Borrower
(Government and Duma) failed to go beyond promises and preparatory activities on all
key components of the agreed structural reform program, including those carried over
from SAL I. The adoption of the first part of the Tax Code in mid-1998 was more
attributable to the mounting financial pressures that led to the August collapse and to SAL
III pre-Board conditionality, rather than to Borrower's performance under SAL II. Even if
some credit were given to SAL II for this step, late timing and failure to adopt the second
part of the Tax Code fatally undermined the attempts by the Government and the
international community to restore investors' confidence.
5.8   Thus, the performance of the Borrower (the Government and the Duma) has been
unsatisfactory under both SALs Iand II. This judgment does not agree with the
satisfactory rating of Borrower performance in the ECA Region's ICR of SALs I and II,
but is consistent with OED's review of the ICR and with the unsatisfactory rating of



25
Borrower performance in the May 2001 ICR of SAL III (mid-1998 to end-2000), an
operation whose reform coverage overlapped to a large extent with the previous SALs.
Bank Performance22
5.9   For RL I, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Project processing for RL I
was expeditious, reflecting the urgencies in Russia, and supervision was intensive. In
particular, close attention was paid to procurement and distribution issues. But the
procedural difficulties predicted in the loan's President's Report, related to procurement
and disbursement, especially for the pre-identified import component, undermined one of
the key objectives of the loan. The goal of a speedy alleviation of foreign currency
shortages was not achieved. These problems arose for rehabilitation loans in other
transition countries, and with hindsight this component should not have been included.
The policy issues identified by the Bank and on which it sought agreement with the
authorities were comprehensive and relevant, although perhaps too ambitious. The lack
of formal or detailed set of policy conditions, given that this was Russia's first
involvement with the Bank and the urgent need of liquidity support, was appropriate.
5.10 The Bank learned the lesson of experience on pre-identified imports and RL II
was appropriately structured as a quick-disbursing, balance-of-payments/general budget
support operation, utilizing the existing commercial foreign currency market. While it is
questionable whether a single-tranche operation was the most suitable vehicle to achieve
sustained impetus on the part of the authorities toward the key areas of structural reform,
the gestation period for this operation was lengthy and the Bank was right in withholding
its presentation to the Board until an acceptable overall macroeconomic policy framework
backed by a Fund program was in place. Although fiscal adjustment could have been
emphasized more, the Bank supported a relevant policy reform agenda. Thus, Bank
performance was satisfactory for RL II.
5.11 The design of SALs I and II was aimed at preparatory activities for structural
reforms to be implemented after their disbursements and under subsequent adjustment
loans (a series of SALs was envisaged). The areas covered by SALs I and II were
important and the specific measures were necessary steps to achieve the objectives.
However, they were not sufficient.
5.12  Although the unsustainability of deficit financing became apparent only gradually,
as yields fluctuated widely in 1996 in reaction to the president's electoral and health
prospects and decreased in early 1997, the high risks to the success of the operations
medium-term objectives due to the narrow ownership and consensus in the country on the
reform program were clear in early 1997 and even more so in late 1997. However, the
Bank did not adequately assess during the preparation of SAL I the likelihood for delays
in the adoption of the agreed measures and subsequent, expected follow-up actions.
Instead of drawing the right lesson from the poor experience with the recent single-
tranche RL II, the Bank proved too eager to seize what it perceived as a window of
opportunity brought about by a new government with key reformers in senior positions.
2 This is rated on a four-point scale of highly satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, and highly unsatisfactory.



26
5.13  In light of prior experience in Russia with very brief windows of opportunity and
with stop-go implementation of agreed reforms, the Bank should have been more cautious
in the SALs timing and design. A SAL should have been approved only at a more
advanced stage of preparation (and with substantial ESW backing it up), and preferably
after concrete signs of government commitment to implementation (as was the case for
the Coal SECALs). Given the economic and political conditions in mid-1997, the Bank
should have only offered the government analytical and advisory services and technical
assistance. The Bank's desire to gain a seat at the policy making table would have been
more efficiently served by helping the IMF review the structural components of its EFF.
A second-best option for risk mitigation would have been for the Bank to offer a back-
loaded, multi-year, adjustment operation (or preferably, a series of SECALs) with floating
tranches. Thus, Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory for SAL I, consistent with the
ICR review.
5.14 During preparation and approval of SAL II, the Bank continued to fall short in
assessing the degree of ownership and commitment to reform among key constituencies.
Without adequately heeding the lessons from the negligible efficacy of SAL I,
disbursement and conditionalities were still inappropriately targeted to preparatory
activities rather than implementation of reforms. The Bank showed poor judgment in
assessing implementation of SAL I as satisfactory in the Board documentation for the
approval of SAL II, and consequently in not re-assessing the modalities of its assistance.
Given the economic and political conditions at end-1997, the Bank should have
postponed a second SAL and instead only offered the government analytical and advisory
services and technical assistance. In November and December 1997, instead, the Bank
rushed to prepare, approve, and disburse this de-facto single-tranche loan out of fear of
the consequences for Russia and the rest of the world from the spillover from the East
Asia crisis. Alternative options may not have been available to Bank management and
staff, given the considerable external pressures by major shareholders for the Bank to
provide massive and quick support to the new government. Due to these mitigating
circumstances, OED rates Bank performance for SAL II as unsatisfactory rather than
highly so. This rating is consistent with that in OED's review of the ICR.
5.15  The ECA Region's management disagree that the shift from investment lending to
structural adjustment lending was a misguided response, as the risks involved were worth
taking at the time given the potential rewards. While retrospectively questioning the
amount of structural adjustment lending, management believe that restricting Bank
assistance to AAA and small loans would have meant a perpetuation of the Bank's
limited impact on policy formulation. The 1997 SALs and the SPAL were necessary to
influence the design of the structural reform agenda, beyond the limited impact of
analytical and advisory services. SAL II, moreover, was justified by the need to address
the fallout from the East Asia crisis. Management further argue that the lack of
fundamental reversals in economic policy, as well as improved Russia-Bank relations,
would not have taken place without the trust-building by virtue of the approval of SAL I
and II and the SPAL. Moreover, these operations sowed the seeds of the reform program
adopted in 2000 and currently under implementation.



27
6.      Lessons
6.1     The Bank's experience with the two RLs confirms a number of lessons that have
been learned in other emergency support operations:
Assure flexibility in the use of rehabilitation loans and avoid pre-identification of
specific imports. For operations designed to address key social needs and/or
production bottlenecks, projects require a maximum degree of funding flexibility.
Earmarking portions of rehabilitation loans complicates implementation and in
some cases can delay disbursements beyond a time when they are urgently needed.
*   Ensure adequate supervision coefficients. For rehabilitation loans and emergency
import projects, standard supervision coefficients may not be appropriate. This is
especially for so for new borrowers unfamiliar with Bank procedures.
*   Sound macroeconomic management is a pre-requisite for the positive responses
expected to flow from structural reform, under all policy-based type of lending.
6.2     The lessons from the Bank's experience with SAL I and SAL I1, although not fully
recognized in the ICR, have been subsequently incorporated in SAL III:
*   Broad country ownership is crucial. TIhus, it is important for the Bank to pay
close attention to the political and institutional aspects of reforms and consult with
all relevant units of government and civil society, so as to improve the relevance
and design of its activities and avoid operations where commitment is weak.
*   In the face of a poor track record and narrow country ownership of reform, a large
adjustment lending program, especially one with front-loaded disbursements,
risks delaying rather than accelerating reform.22
*   In the face of a poor track record and a new consensus on a reform program,
adjustment lending should be available only after the government has publicly
adopted the necessary reforms or has begun implementing them, as was the case
for the Coal SECALs. Separate sectoral operations, back-loaded disbursements,
and floating tranches should be used to assure a tighter linkage between increases
in the country's debt to IBRD and the implementation of irreversible reform
measures. Disbursements should be backloaded and carefully modulated on the
basis of solid progress in implementation, including enforcement of laws and
regulations.23
* There needs to be strong strategic coordination and integration of actors,
instruments, and interventions supporting common objectives in programs
22 ECA management is skeptical that advice alone, however useful, could have carried much weight in Russia.
23 The Coal SECALs and SAL III, especially after their restructuring in 1999, were good examples of such an
approach. The ECA Region's management, however, in their cormments to a previous ICR review by OED of SALs I
and II and again to the Russia CAE, have questioned whether adjustment loans should only be offered after adoption of
reforms. In their view, in cases where the Bank is called upon to provide adjustment lending to help resolve a rapidly
unfolding crisis, for example, it is unrealistic to think that such support should only be provided when there is strong
prior political ownership and consensus about the reform path. Moreover, there is often a lag in the take-up of new
policies, as in Russia prior to the year 2000.



28
supported by the Bank as well as by Russia's other development partners. For the
most part, the TA provided to the Russian authorities under SALs I and II worked
well in the design of specific measures and in their implementation. But in some
areas, the integration between TA and on-the-ground implementation of policy
measures was insufficient, such as in the financial sector.
6.3   Common to all four operations as well as the rest of the Bank's assistance in
Russia are other important lessons:
* The Bank should pay attention to the quality of public institutions and
governance. While considerable Bank support has been provided for institutional
development since the inception of the Bank's program of assistance to Russia,
the problem of governance was not frontally addressed. It is clearly a serious
impediment to development-the absence of rule of law, for example, has been
one of the most serious deterrents to foreign direct investment and a major factor
behind capital flight. The issue has been complicated by the weak tradition of
property rights, exacerbated in the communist period, where control rather
ownership has long been the basis for the beneficial use. It has also been
complicated by the major distortions in Russia's post-communist economy, which
have created all kinds of perceived inequities, and by the use of wild accusations
of corruption as a standard part of the political battle. In terms of ensuring that the
funds it lends are safeguarded, the Bank should address the important challenge of
improving the overall quality of expenditure controls and accountability in
Russia's budgetary system.
* Keep "windows of opportunity" in perspective. One of the clearest lessons from
all the Bank assistance in Russia is the under-estimation of the complexity of the
task of structural reformn. Deep-rooted political, social, and individual behavioral
changes are necessary before the transformation will be complete. This will take
time-perhaps another generation. In this context, the focus must be maintained
on structuring operations that bring about and support the implementation of
medium- and long-term structural change, not "quick fixes." This is another
argument for TA and multiple-tranche operations, in support of well-articulated
medium and long-term reform roadmaps.



29                                    Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
REHABILITATION LOAN (LOAN 3515-RU)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Actual or current       Actual as % of
Appraisal estimate         estimate           appraisal estimate
Total project costs           600.0                  600.0                    100
Loan amount                   600.0                  600.0                    100
Cofmancing                        0                      0
Cancellation                      0                      0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY92      FY93     FY94      FY95      Total
Appraisal estimate (US$m)                      N/A      N/A       N/A      N/A       600
Actual (US$m)                                  0.9      371       226       1.5      600
Actual as % of appraisal                      N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A       100
Date of final disbursement: February 1, 1995
Project Dates
Original              Actual
Initiating Memorandum                                     N/A                   N/A
Negotiations                                              N/A                 07/92
Letters of Development Policy                             N/A                 07/92
Board Approval                                            N/A                 08/92
Signing                                                                        11/92
Effectiveness                                            08/91                 12/92
Closing date                                             12/93                09/94
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle           Weeks         USS         Weeks         US$
Appraisal - Board approval                 130        480,000        103        370,000
Board approval - Effectiveness              20         75,000         16         58,000
Supervision                                 85        320,000         69        247,000
Completion                                  15         56,250          6         20,600
Total                                      250        931,250        194        695,600



Annex A (continued)                        30
Mission Data
Performance Ratingb
Date      No. of  Days in               Implementation  Development    Type of
(month/year) Persons  Field  Specializationa    Status         Status    Problems'
Preparation  04-06/92      4        12        E,F            N/A            N/A
Supervision     10/92      4        4         E,F             2                          F
05/93      2       11         E,F              I                        M
09/03      3        9         E,F             2
04/94       1       4          E
06/94       1      11          E
09/94      2       10          E
Smecialization              b Performance Ratine       Types of Problems
E = Economist                 I = Minor Problems       F = Financial
F = Financial Analyst        2 = Moderate Problems     M = Managerial
3 = Major Problems
Other Project Data
Year of
Loan Title                       Purpose               Approval         Status
Preceding Operations
None
Following ODerations
1. Privatization Implementation  Privatization, Enterprise Restructuring  FY93  Under Implementation
Assistance
2. Employment Services and   Poverty Reduction, Build Capacity in  FY93  Under Implementation
Social Protection          Employment Services
3. Oil Rehabilitation I      Oil Sector Reforms, Expand          FY93    Under Implementation
Production Capacity
4. Oil Rehabilitation II     Oil Sector Reforms, Expand          FY94     Under Irnplementation
Production Capacity
5. Rehabilitation II         Stabilization and Structural Reforms  FY95   Closed



31                          Annex A (continued)
SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN (LOAN 3898-RU)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Actual or current       Actual as % of
Appraisal estimate         estimate           appraisal estimate
Total project costs          600.0                  600.0                    100
Loan amount                  600.0                  600.0                    100
Cofinancing                      0                      0
Cancellation                     0                      0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY96
Appraisal estimate (US$m)                                              N/A
Actual (US$m)                                                          600
Actual as % of appraisal                                               N/A
Date of final disbursement: October, 1995
Project Dates
Original              Actual
Identification                                          N/A                    N/A
Preparation                                             N/A                05-06/93
Appraisal Mission                                       N/A                   07/93
Negotiations                                            N/A                   08/93
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)            N/A                08/30/94
Board Approval                                          N/A                06/06/95
Signing                                                 N/A                07/07/95
Effectiveness                                          07/95               09/28/95
Closing date                                            N/A                06/30/96
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual
Stage of project cycle                   Weeks                 USS
Through Preappraisal                                      49               153,800
Appraisal - Board approval                                96               290,400
Board approval- Effectiveness                             35               109,900
Supervision                                              N/A                     0
Completion                                                 4                 12,500
Total                                                   180.5              566,600



Annex A (continued)                        32
Mission Data
Performance Ratingb
Date      No. of Days in                Implementation  Development   Type of
(monthlyear) Persons  Field  Specializationa    Status        Status    Problemse
Preparation   05-06/93      3       12        E,F,G           N/A           N/A
Appraisal        07/93      3       12        E,F,G           N/A           N/A
Appraisal to    08/94      2       12          E,G           N/A            1
Board           04/95       1      12            E           N/A            2           P
approval
Board           07/95       1      10            E           N/A            2           P
approval to     08/95       1      10           G            N/A            1
effectiveness
aSpecialization              bPerformance                Types of Problems
E = Economist                 I = Minor Problems       P = Political
F = Financial Analyst         2 = Moderate Problems
G = Energy Specialist         3 = Major Problems
Other Project Data
Year of
Loan Title                       Purpose               Approval         Status
Preceding Operations
1. Rehabilitation Loan       Stabilization and Structural Reforms  FY93  Closed
2. Employment Services and    Poverty Reduction, Build Capacity in  FY93  Under implementation
Social Protection          Employment Services
3. Privatization Implementation  Enterprise Restructuring         FY93    Under implementation
Assistance
4. Oil Rehabilitation I       Oil Sector Reforms, Expand          FY93    Under implementation
Production Capacity
4. Oil Rehabilitation II      Oil Sector Reforms, Expand          FY94    Under implementation
Production Capacity
Following Operations
5. Standards Development     Harmonization of Product Standards   FY96    Under implementation
for WTO Entry



33                                     Annex B
Basic Data Sheet
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I (LOAN 4180-RU)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                     Actual as% of
Item                        Estimate         Actual         Appraisal
Total project costs                              600             600             100
Loan amount                                      600             600             100
Cofinancing                                        0               0                -
Cancellation                                       0               0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (in US$ million)
FY97            FY98             Total
Appraisal Estimate                             600.0             N/A            600.0
Actual                                         600.0             N/A            600.0
Actual as % estimate                            100%             N/A            100%
Date of final disbursement: June 17, 1997
Project Dates
Date Planned             Actual Date
Identification (IEPS)                                   N/A                     12/96
Preparation                                             N/A                  01-02/97
Appraisal                                               N/A                     03/97
Negotiation                                             N/A                     04/97
Letter of Development Policy                            N/A                     04/97
Board Presentation                                      N/A                     06/97
Signing                                                 N/A                     06/97
Effectiveness                                          06/97                    06/97
First Tranche Release                                   N/A                      N/A
Project Cormpletion                                      [a]                      [a]
Loan Closing                                           03/98                    03/98
[a] SAL I and SAL 11 are part of continuing series of structural adjustment operations supporting Russia's transition to
a market economy. In this sense, the "project" has not yet been completed. In the sense of completion of
disbursements for each loan, SAL I was completed in June 1997 and SAL II was completed in January 1998.
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned                  Actual
Stage of Project Cycle             Weeks        USS        Weeks        USS
Preparation                                    43.0       268.0        40.9       241.2
Appraisal                                      36.4       129.1        36.9        124.1
Negotiations to Board                          11.7        39.7        15.1         64.5
Supervision                                    23.7        69.5        26.0        77.4
Completion                                      3.0        16.7         0.0          0.0
Total                                         117.8       523.0       118.9        507.3
Notes: Costs are in thousands of US$. Actual staff inputs and dollar costs are as of May 20, 1999.



Annex B (continued)                         34
Mission Data
Performance Ratingb
Date      No. of Days in                 Implementation  Development    Type of
(month/year) Persons  Field    Staff Typea       Status        Status     Problems'
Preparation       12/96      4       10          E,F
01/97      7       10          E,F
Appraisal         02/97      5       10          E,F
03/97       5      10          E,F
Supervision       07/97      5       12          E,F             2             2           M
a Staff Type                      b Performance             C Types of Problems
E =   Economist                   I = Minor Problems        M = Project Management
F = Financial Sector Specialist   2 = Moderate Problems
3 = Major Problems
Other Project Data
Related Operations
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose               Approval          Status
Privatization Implementation  Support the Government's              FY93         Completed
Assistance Loan               privatization program
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan   Support the Government's sector       FY96         Completed
restructuring program
Social Protection Adjustment  Establish effective and sustainable   FY97    Under Implementation
Loan                          system of income support and poverty
relief
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan II  Support the Government's sector    FY98     Under Implementation
restructuning program
Structural Adjustment Loan III  Continue support for return of     FY99     Under Implementation
structural policies and institutions



35                           Annex B (continued)
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN II (LOAN 4261-RU)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                     Actual as% of
Item                        Estimate         Actual         Appraisal
Total project costs                               800             800             100
Loan amount                                       800             800             100
Cofinancing                                         0               0               0
Cancellation                                        0               0               0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (in US$ million)
FY97            FY98             Total
Appraisal Estimate                             N/A                800             800
Actual                                         N/A                800             800
Actual as % estimate                           N/A              100%             100%
Date of final disbursement: Jan. 23, 1998
Project Dates
Date Planned             Actual Date
Identification (IEPS)                                   N/A                      06/97
Preparation                                             N/A                   07-08/97
Appraisal                                               N/A                      10/97
Negotiation                                             N/A                      11/97
Letter of Development Policy                            N/A                      11/97
Board Presentation                                      N/A                      12/97
Signing                                                 N/A                      12/97
Effectiveness                                          12/97                     12/97
First Tranche Release
Project Completion                                        [a]                      [a]
Loan Closing                                           12/98                     12/98
[a] SAL I and SAL H are part of continuing series of structural adjustment operations supporting Russia's transition to
a market economy. In this sense, the "project" has not yet been completed. In the sense of completion of
disbursements for each loan, SAL I was completed in June 1997 and SAL II was completed in January 1998.
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned                  Actual
Stage of Project Cycle             Weeks        USS         Weeks        USS
Preparation                                    43.6        187.5        56.9        232.7
Appraisal                                       16.2        46.3        16.2        114.0
Negotiations to Board                           19.6        72.1        19.6        149.9
Supervision                                    26.1         96.0        65.0        189.0
Completion                                       3.0        16.7         0.0          0.0
Total                                          108.5       418.6       157.7        685.6
Notes: Costs are in thousands of US$. Actual staff inputs and dollar costs are as of May 20, 1999.



Annex B (continued)                        36
Mission Data
Performance Ratingb
Date      No. of Days in                Implementation  Development    Type of
(month/year) Persons  Field    Staff Typea      Status         Status    Problemsc
Preparation      7-8/97      5      12          E,F
Appraisal        10/97       5      12          E,F
Supervision      01/98      10      12          E,F             2             2           M
02/98      5       10          E,F            2              2           M
04/98      5       10          E,F            2              2           M
06/98      5       10          E,F            2              2           M
a                        ~~~~~~~~~b                c
Staff Type                        Performance               Types of Problems
E = Economist                     I = Minor Problems        M = Project Management
F = Financial Sector Specialist  2 = Moderate Problems
3 = Major Problems
Other Project Data
Related Operations
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose               Approval          Status
Privatization Implementation  Support the Government's             FY93         Completed
Assistance Loan               privatization program
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan   Support the Government's sector      FY96         Completed
restructuring program
Social Protection Adjustment  Establish effective and sustainable  FY97    Under Implementation
Loan                          system of income support and poverty
relief
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan II  Support the Government's sector   FY98     Under Implementation
restructuring program
Structural Adjustment Loan III  Continue support for return of    FY99     Under Implementation
structural policies and institutions



37                                     Annex C
Page 1 of 5
RUSSIA: REHABILITATION LOAN (RL I)
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS AS OF MAY 1, 19951
I. ENTERPRISE REFORM
A. Privatization of small-scale enterDrises
i.  GKI will prepare a simplified and flexible  Done. GKI reports that 90,000 small-scale
scheme for small-scale privatization which is to be  enterprises (constituting 80 percent of enterprises
introduced by end of August 1992.             with fewer than 200 emnployees) had been sold as of
en-June, 1994.
ii.  GKI will provide technical assistance on small-  Done. There have been local variations in the pace of
scale privatization to regional and municipal  small-scale privatization, essentially related to the
governments; this assistance will be available  commnitment of the local authorities responsible for
beginning in September 1992.                   implementing the program.
B. Privatization of medium and large-scale enterDrises
i.  A detailed plan for mass privatization of  Done. The privatization program for 1992/93 was
medium and large scale state enterprises is now  approved on June 11, 1992. By end-June 1994,
being prepared and is to be completed during the  20,000 of the 28,000 large and medium-size state-
third quarter of 1992.                         owned enterprises earmarked for privatization under
the program had been corporatized, and 12,000
enterprises had auctioned a majority interest for
vouchers and had state shares of less than 25 percent.
ii. Implementation will begin with the distribution  Done. Distribution of vouchers began in late- 1992,
of vouchers in the fourth quarter; auctions of specific  and 148 million vouchers were eventually issued.
enterprises will start soon thereafter.       Approximately 145 million vouchers (98 percent of
the total) had been redeemed for shares by end-June
1994.
ii. Private investment funds will be allowed to  Done. As of end-September 1994, 638 investment
organize this will permit (i) individual investors to  funds were registered with GKI.
have diversified holdings and (ii) investment funds
to control blocks of shares large enough to oversee
performance of enterprise managers.
iv. As a start in privatizing large enterprises, a  Done. As of end-January 1994, 94 very large
demonstration group of 5-10 large enterprises will  enterprises had been privatized by voucher auctions,
be identified and investment advisers appointed by  although with only limited participation by foreign
December 1992. Participation by foreign investors  investors.
will be encouraged. It is hoped that some of these
demonstration enterprises will be privatized by mnid-
1993.
C. Corporate governance
i.  A program for corporate governance will be  In progress. Several decrees on the institutional
formulated by December 1992, including the    mechanisms for corporate governance of state-owned
drafting the necessary legislation.           enterprises were issued during the first half of 1994;
detailed regulations for their implementation are still
in the process of preparation. The corporate
governance mechanism for joint stock companies is
contained in the draft law on joint stock cornpanies.
Source: Implementation Completion Report prepared by the ECA (Report No. 16298; February 12, 1997) for RL I



Annex C (continued)                        38
Page 2 of 5
ii. Implementation of the program will begin in  Delayed.
selected enterprises in January 1993.
D. Legal framework for a market economy
i.  The civil code, incorporating modem principles  Partially Done. The first part of the Civil Code has
of contract law and defining property rights, is being  been approved by the State Duma and became
drafted and should be introduced in the Supreme  effective in November 1994. The second part of the
Soviet before the end of 1992.                Civil Code (which includes provisions relating to
commercial transactions) is expected to be submitted
to the State Durna in the summer of 1995.
ii. Laws on enterprises, joint stock societies and  Done. The draft law on joint stock companies was
partnerships are bemg revised and will be submitted  submitted to the State Dumna in October 1994 and is
to the Supreme Soviet by the end of 1992.     currently being reviewed by committees.
iii. A foreign investment law was adopted in 1991;  Not done. The 1991 Law on Foreign Direct
a number of amendments to strengthen the law have  Investment remains in effect. Subsequent decrees
been submitted to the Supreme Soviet.         contradict certain provisions of the Law, creating
grounds for confusion.
iv. A Presidential Decree on bankruptcy was issued  Done. The Bankruptcy Law was adopted by the
in June 1992; this will remain in effect until the  Supreme Soviet in November, 1992 and became
Supreme Soviet has adopted a bankruptcy law.  effective on March 1, 1993. Presidential Decree N
1114 of June 2, 1994 permits the sale of insolvent
enterprises, while procedures for voluntary
liquidation and the provision of state support to
enterprises are contained in Government Decree N
498 of May 20, 1994. As of end-1994, 1358
enterprises were classified as insolvent; bankruptcy
procedures had been initiated for 183 enterprises.
II. PRO-COMPETITION AND ANTI-MONOPOLY POLICIES
A. Demonopolization of existing structures.
i.  When large enterprises are corporatized this will Partially done. With very few exceptions, the
be done at the level of the smallest legal entity.  smallest legal entity was the basis for corporatization.
However, in some cases, all plants and factories in
different parts of Russia were considered as sub-
divisions of a single legal entity, rather than as
separate entities.
ii. Profile restrictions, which require firms to  Done. Historically, about 30 percent of small-scale
continue particular product lines will be phased out  enterprises were privatized with profile restrictions.
as rapidly as conditions permit.              GKI recently confirmed that in practice, profile
restrictions are not being renewed upon their expiry.
iii. The newly organized investment companies will  Done. Licensed voucher funds were limited under
be required to hold diversified portfolios rather than  the 1992 Privatization Program to holding no more
holdings in a number of companies engaged in the  than lo percent of the stock in any one enterprise,
same economic activity.                       with no more than 5 percent of their portfolio in any
one enterprise. The Government introduced the
restrictions to limit the ability of investment funds to
form cartels; however, it also liniited the ability of
investment funds to oversee the performnance of
enterprise managers. The 1994 Privatization Program
(Presidential Decree N 2284 of December 24, 1993)
allows investment funds to own up to 25 percent of
the stock in any enterprise.



39                          Annex C (continued)
Page 3 of 5
iv. During the third quarter of 1992 the       Partially Done. Concerns, which were generally
Government will issue an order calling for the  organized by the former branch ministry, were
reorganization of "concerns" and other entities that  required to reorganize as joint stock companies or
night become the basis for cartelization of particular  holding companies during 1992. No special
areas of industrial production.                regulations were placed on joint stock companies.
But very restrictive rules were applied to holding
companies (Presidential Decree N 1392 of November
16, 1992). In practice, no specific actions were taken
to prevent cartelization, and in some industries (e.g.,
coal), the former branch ministry has been a major
factor in promoting cartelization, generally through
preferential access to subsidies or other benefits. The
1994 Privatization Program places restrictive rules on
the participation of enterprises with more than 25
percent state ownership in all types of associations.
v. By August 1992, a temporary inter-agency    Not Done. GKAP and GKI agreed on a set of rules
working group will be established to further develop  to work together, but GKAP has not developed an
mechanisms for demonopolization of existing    effective strategy in the area of anti-monopoly policy.
enterprises. Its                               Progress in this area has depended largely on the
outlook of the local anti-monopoly department and its
cooperation with the local GKI.
B. Encouragement of new enterprises
i.  By September 30, 1992, an inter-agency     Done. The Federal Program of State Support to
working group will prepare recommendations on  Small Business for 1994-95 was approved by the
measures to promote greater competition output and  Government in April 1994. This includes a variety of
employment through the creation of new small   provisions to support new private enterprises, as well
enterprises. Recommendations will cover required  as authorizing funding for several pilot programs
legislation as well as access to finance and specific  during the latter part of 1994. The draft law on state
problems such as registration and access to    support for small businesses has passed the first
necessary real estate.                         reading in the State Duma. Presidential Decree N
2270 of December 22, 1993 granted taw privileges to
new private small enterprises in designated priority
sectors.
m. FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT
A. Foreign Direct Investment
i.  Government will encourage foreign investors to  Done. The 1994 Privatization Program allows
participate in the privatization of medium and large  foreign investors to take part in property auctions,
enterprises. Rules and conditions for participation  bids, and investment tenders on a non-discriminatory
will be simplified and steps will be taken to see that  basis.
infornation on investment opportunities is available.
ii. The Government will not discriminate against  Done. GKI Regulations (registered with the Ministry
foreign investors. It will seek in reach agreements  of Justice in mid-march 1994) stipulate that the
on double taxation with as many countries as   amount of investrnent offered will be the sole criteria
possible.                                      for choosing the winner of investmnent tenders, with
no differentiation between domestic and foreign
investors.



Annex C                                    40
Page 4 of 5
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
A. Interagencv workina eroun on financial sector reform issues
i.  A new commercial banking law will be     Done. The law on banks and banking activities was
submitted to the Supreme Soviet before the end of  passed by the State Duma at the first reading in July,
October 1992.                                 1994, and it is expected to be considered for its third
and fuial reading by the end of June 1995.
ii. Before the end of 1992, proposals will be  Not Done. High inflation during 1992 reduced the
prepared on a plan to liquidate, restructure, or  immediate portfolio problems of the banks, but
recapitalize banks.                          portfolio problems could reemerge as the rate of
inflation declines. There is a need to restructure the
large former state-owned banks.
iii.  Before the end of 1992, the problems of high  Partially Done. High interest rate spreads shrank
spreads will be studied and proposals for reform will substantially during 1994 as a result of increases in
be made. This will be followed by drafting new  deposit rates and reductions in the lending rates.
legislation on taxation of financial intermediaries,
which will then be submitted to the Supreme Soviet.
iv.  Over the next 12 months, the authorities will  Done. The Central Bank has introduced a System of
introduce intemational standards of accounting, and  Broadly-Adapted Financial Statements, and audits of
they will conduct audits of at least 15 large banks.  a number of banks have been completed to
international standards.
v.  A comprehensive program for dealing with the  Delayed. High inflation has resulted in most banks
issues of bad debt management and bank        being under-capitalized. The Central Bank recently
recapitalization will be completed by June 1993.  issued regulations to raise capital requirements for
commercial banks.
vi.  Draft legislation of a securities act and  Done. A law on collateral security was adopted on
collateral security will be submitted to the Supreme  May 29, 1992. The law on securities markets passed
Soviet before the end of 1992.               the second reading in the State Duma on April 26,
1995.
vii. A comprehensive review of the payments   Done. Payments within Moscow can now be settled
system, including inter-CIS payments, will be  within a day, although improvements in payments in
completed by march 1993; some of the          other regions of Russia have lagged behind. In the
recommendations should be in place by June 1993.  meantime, a number of commercial banks have
implemented high-value payment systems based on
correspondent accounts. Payments between CIS
countries are no longer based on ruble transactions,
given the introduction of separate national currencies.
V. THE SOCLAL SAFETY NET
A. Defining the poverty line and adiusting benefits
i.  The minimum benefit for the main programs  Partially Done. In November 1993, the Pension
(pensions and unemployment compensation) will be  Fund introduced flat rate indexation of pensions on a
set at or above the basic benefit.           temporary basis in order to maintain the financial
viability of the Pension Fund and protect people who
earn the minimum pension. Unemployment benefits,
although legally set at 75 percent of the pre-
employment wage, rarely amount to that, and the
average unemnployment benefit in 1993 was 11
percent of the average wage. The Government has
indicated that legislation to increase unemployment
benefits will be submitted to the State Duma during
1995.



41                          Annex C (continued)
Page 5 of 5
ii. For citizens whose eligibility for other benefits  Not Done. Expected to be undertaken in 1995.
has been exhausted, or whose entitlement is
inadequate, the Government will introduce a means-
tested system of social assistance as a benefit of last
resort.
iii. By September 30, 1992, the Government will  Not Done. Expected to be undertaken in 1995.
have completed recommendations for the redesign of
the system of cash entitlements, including social
assistance. Implementation of the main elements of
the new system will begin by the end of 1992, with
full implementation by the end of 1993.
B. Meeting needs resulting from increased unemplovment
i.  The Government will provide supplementary  Not Yet Needed. Registered unemployment has not
financing from the budget to cover the costs of  increased as rapidly as expected, although open
unemployment compensation.                   unemployment (based on the ILO definition)
accounted for 7 percent of the labor force at the end
of 1994. While the Federal Employment Fund
continues to be in an overall surplus position, several
regional Funds are running large deficits that are
funded through the Federal Employment Fund.
ii. By September 30, 1992, the Government will  Delayed. Funding for the implementation of this
complete the design of a proactive system of  program is included in the bank's Employment
employment services, including job search, training  Services and Social Protection Project.
and possible participation in labor-intensive public
works. Implementation of this program will begin
by December 31, 1992.






43                                     Annex D
Page I of 4
RUSSIA: SECOND REHABILITATION LOAN (RL H)
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 16,1996
I. Structural Policy and Institutional Changes:
1. I To eliminate controls on prices and profitability  Partly Done. Government Decree N 229 of March
and trading margins, including those in wholesale  7, 1995. Such controls have been kept in some
and retail trade, except for cases specified in the draft regions, though.
of the government law on natural and state
monopolies.
1.2 To ensure enforcement of the Presidential decree  Ongoing. Presidential Decree n 1114 of June 2,
of the Russian Federation on sale of insolvent  1994 applies to the mandatory sale of insolvent state-
enterprises (N 1114 of June 2, 1994).          owned enterprises (federal level only); however, till
Fall 1996 most insolvent enterprises had not felt
significant pressure from the federal government, and
only severe budgetary problems have caused
intensification of the process.
1.3 To streamline licensing of business activities of  Done. Government Decree N 1418 of December 24,
enterprises. By this it is supposed to define the  1994.
bodies responsible for issuing licenses, and to reduce
the range of activities which are subject to licensing,
and to limit the maximum fees to be charged for
issuing licenses.
1.4 Not to renew the established profile restrictions  Partly Done. The established profile restrictions are
on privatized enterprises upon their expiry. Any  not being renewed upon expiry. However, the
profile restrictions on newly privatized enterprises  Privatization Program for 1996 does not establish
will be established for a period which does not  any time limnit for mandatory profile restrictions on
exceed one y ear.                              newly privatized enterprises in trade, public catering
and communal service sectors.
1.5 (a) To take a decision on land title registration  Partly Done. Since Land Code, which is suppose to
and to submit draft legislation on mortgages to the  regulate all aspects of land ownership, has not yet
State Duma.                                    been passed by the Duma, Presidential Decrees No.
337 of March 7, 1996, and No. 293 of February 28,
1996 regulate land title registration and mortgage.
(b) To ensure enforcement of the Presidential  (b) Partly Done. Presidential Decree No. 1270 of
Decree on Land Reform (N 1767 of October 27,   August 27, 1996 stipulates that all land owners are
Decree on Land Reform (N 1767 of October'27  entitled for land ownership certificates. However,
1993), ensuring in particular that all land owners will            .           . . H
be issued with land ownership certificates and that  the number of land auctions has been limited to a few
land auctions will begin to take place.        pilot programs so far.
1.6 To conform to the legislation to carry out the  Partly Done. The 1996 Privatization Program
program approved by the President, that provides for  contains relevant provisions. However, Moscow is
abolishing existing restrictions by executive bodies  still exempted from the general privatization scheme
of the subjects of the Russian Federation and local  and maintains specific restrictions. In addition,
authorities on sales of land earmarked for     several other subjects of the Russian Federation keep
commercial activity and leased commercial buildings  such restrictions in place without any legislative
to privatized enterprises (at least 80 percent privately  ground, but the Federal authorities do not initiate any
owned).                                        sanctions against them.
1.7 To process by end-1994 all outstanding     Ongoing. The Govemment currently considers
applications by privatized enterprises for purchases  various mechanisms - including giving away -- for
of leased comnmercial premises and occupied land.  transferring occupied land to privatized enterprises.
Implementation Completion Report prepared by the ECA Region (Report No. 16300; February 12, 1997) for RL II



Annex D (continued)                         44
Page 2 of 4
1.8 To carry-out necessary preparatory work leading  Ongoing. The necessary preparatory work has been
to the introduction of a system of differentiated  completed, and introduction of a system is now
transportation tariffs and prices for natural gas by  expected by the beginning of 1997.
region by the beginning of 1996.
1.9 To take measures to ensure that transfers from  Done. Transfers from the State Employment Fund
the State Employment Fund are not used by      have been limited to programs of support for job re-
enterprises for support of production: purchase of  training, and for disabled and young.
raw materials, equipment, replenishment of working
assets, repayment of debt related to wages and other
similar expenditures.
1I.10 To prepare, before the end of 1994, a program  Ongoing. The relevant program has been worked
to rationalize the coal sector including: a phased  out in 1996, in the context of the Bank Coal SECAL,
closing of the most inefficient mines; initially  and is currently under implementation.
capping subsidy flows and then eliminating those
covering operating losses over a three year period;
elimination of cross subsidies between coal basins
early in the process of reorganization; and
preparation of measures to facilitate a reduction in
employment in the sector.
1.11 To establish and implement, by the end of  Not Done. Though some preparatory studies were
1994, arrangements to analyze the effective rate of  carried out by the Government's Center for Economic
state support provided to specific industries, very  Reform, no report has yet been published, and no
large enterprises, and insolvent enterprises (including  arrangements for carrying out such studies on regular
tax credits, subsidies, directed credits, customs duties  basis have been established.
exemptions and other privileges), and publishing the
obtained results in public press.
1.12 To subrit draft legislation on joint stock  Done. The law was passed by the Duma on
companies to the President.                    November 24, 1995, and subsequently revised on
June 13, 1996.
1.13 To continue, with the Central Bank, upgrading  Ongoing. Presidential Decree N 1184 of June 10,
financial reporting based on intemational standards  1994 instructs the Central Bank to strengthen
and bringing the supervision of conimercial banks  banking supervision, with comprehensive auditing of
closer to intemational standards.              conmmercial banks to be carried out at least once
every two years.
1.14 To ensure enforcement of the Presidential  Done. The State Anti-Monopoly Committee
Decree (N 1183 of June 10, 1994) requiring truth in  (GKAP) had sent about 130 wamings to financial
the advertising of financial institutions.     institutions under the provisions of this Decree, and
cases were initiated n 20 instances. Most of the
violations have since stopped. A new Law on
Advertising, addressing inter alia these issues, was
passed by the Duma on June 14, 1995.
H. Foreign Trade Policy
2.1 To abolish export quotas and licensing of oil and  Done. As of April 1, 1995 export quotas for oil and
oil products as of January 1, 1995.            oil products were abolished, bringing comnpleting the
process of export quotas elimination.
2.2 Before the end of 1994 to elimninate lists of  Done. Presidential Decree N 245 of March 6, 1995
conmmodities allowed for export only by specially  abolished the system of specially registered
registered exporters.                          exporters.



45                          Annex D (continued)
Page 3 of 4
2.3 To give up exports of commodities for state  Done. The Law on Procurement for Federal and
needs.                                        State Needs N 60-FZ of December 13, 1994
abolished the system of mandatory exports for state
needs and established rules for a new market-based
system of procurement for shipments under
international commitments, such as interstate
agreements on oil shipments.
2.4 To seek to discontinue obligatory lists of  Done. The elimination of export quotas has
commodities in trade with CIS countries beginning  prompted the removal of obligatory lists from
1995 in the context of bilateral negotiations.  intergovernmental agreements with CIS countries.
All such lists have become indicative since then.
2.5 To abolish by end-1994 export duties on   Done. All export duties were abolished by July 1,
agricultural products and to reduce the export duty  1996 (GOR Decree No. 479 of April 1, 1 996).
rate for other commodities so that the weighted
average will be no more than 50 percent of the level
in the beginning of 1994. To eliminate all export
duties before the end of 1995.
2.6 To submit to the State Duma a draft law on  Ongoing. The Draft law were submitted to the
harmonizing methods for calculating excise tax for  Duma in June 1996, and, after revision, was
domestically produced and imported products. Upon  approved in the first reading in December 1996.
approving legislation by the Duma, to harmonize
excise tax rates for domestically-produced and
imported products.
2.7 To initiate rationalization of import tariff  Done. The new import duty schedule contains only
structure so that all tariff bands will be divisible by  duty bands divisible by five. In accordance with the
five. To exempt goods, for which present inport  agreement with the IMF, all 1-2 percent bands have
tariff rate is 1-2 percent, from import duty.  been raised to 5 percent.
2.8 To reduce present import duties so that rates do  Done. Government Decrees No. 998 of August 13,
not exceed 20 percent. The Government reserves the  1996 and No. 1105 of September 19, 1996 reduced
right to increase these rates above 30 percent only  all import duties, with the exception of alcohol, to
temporarily, and they would apply to no more than 5  not more than 30 percent.
percent of imports.
2.9 To design and publish a tirnetable, by October  Done. Government Decree n 190 of February 28,
1994, to reduce import duties over the next three to  1995 stipulated that the average weighted rate of
five years. The program will consist of periodic  import tariffs should be reduced to 80 percent of the
across-the-board cuts in tariff rates starting in  1995 level by 1998, and to 70 percent of the current
January 1995, without exceptions for specific  level in 2000. In addition, the maximum rate of
products. In three years, the average tariff rate  import tariff should be reduced to 20 percent by
(import-weighted) will be reduced from 15 percent to  January 1, 1998, the Ministry of Foreign Economic
110 percent, and in two years upon Russia's accession  Relations published an indicative timetable to
to GATT/WTO it will be reduced to 5-7 percent.  implement these reductions in import duties over the
next five years (with intermediate targets for a three
year period).
2.10 To start in a phased manner a move to a system  Done. Several Government Decrees (No. 1446 of
b'ased on market principles for providing access to oil Decemnber 31, 1994, No. 94 of January 30, 1995 and
pipeline transport. As a first step, to introduce,  No. 209 of February 1995) implement the program of
simultaneously with the elimination of all export  non-discriminatory access to oil export pipelines,
quotas for oil and the abolition of the list of strategic  including market-based procedures for transferring
exporters, procedures for access to pipelines by all  access rights to pipelines. However, joint ventures
potential exporters, including new producers and  and exports under state agreements still enjoy a
traders, in a non-discrimninatory manner. This system  privileged access to export pipelines.
should include market-based processes for
transferring access rights to pipelines.



Annex D (continued)                        46
Page 4 of 4
2.11 To ensure the enforcement of the Presidential  Done. Presidential Decree N 244 of March 6, 1995
Decree (No. 1007 of May 23, 1994) abolishing all  and Federal Law "On Providing Exemptions in
export and import duty exemptions as of July 1,  Foreign Trade" N 31-FZ of March 13, 1995
1994, with the exception of a limited number of cases  abolished all export and import duty exemptions not
specified in the Decree.                      provided for in the federal law on Customns Tariff.



Annex E
Page I of 39
RUSSIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS (SALs) I and II
STATUS OF POLICY AGREEMENTS AS OF JULY 26, 1998
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES
Policy       Actions Taken For Board                                                      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective         Approval of SAL I         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                        SAL III
I. Cross-Sectoral Program
To improve the   The Govermnent has made     The Government has adopted Resolution # 928 of As it has throughout 1997, in 1998 the Government
transparency,    adequate provisions in the  July 27, 1997 that establishes a procedure for  will ensure that there are no arrears to energy
fiscal           1997 budget to pay for the  clearing payment arrears for supplied fuel and  suppliers on account of the remaining strategic
accountability   fuel and energy consumption  energy resources.                              customers.
and              of the remaining "strategic
cm    ties       ctoerem"iwh       may  ot beg  In August 1997 the Government outlined an action  A Government Instruction (SK-P7-13321, May 10,
cof  eitfvsrctr  disconnected            o r  plan for restructuring the electric power and natural  1998) has been issued to prepare guidelines for
mofinopoies       nonp  ent, a   s    i      gas sectors.                                    implementation of quarterly accounts based on
aondoolredu      Government,as D    e   74 tInternational Accounting Standards (IAS) for RAO
and to reduce    Govermnent    Decree   74,
barter and non-  issued January 28, 1997.                                                    Gazprorn, RAO UES Rossii (UESR), the Railways,
payments.                                                                                    and Transeft, and requiring the preparation of
On   April  3,  1997, the                                                   quarterly accounts for RAO Gazprorn, and RAO
Government   approved   an                                                  UESR starting from the third quarter of 1998.
action plan for the phased                                                  A report has been issued to the Government-and
elimnmation of cross-subsidies
alimongtconsumergross-supsidforpublished-on                                               the  amounts   of dividends   on
alonaa monsumergropy serv                                                   federally-owned shares in infrastructure utilities not
all natural monopoly services                            transferred to the federal budget. Article 105 of the
(Government Resolution No.                                                   1998 Budget Law and Presidential Decree No. 396
389   "On    the   Gradual                                                  of April 16, 1998 are intended to eliminate such
Reduction of Cross-
Sedubsidition  in  eCtorss of                                               exemptions; a draft law  has been prepared to
Subsidization in Sectors of                                                 imlmn Aril .      05
Natural Monopolies").
Source: SAL III President's Report (No. P-7256-RU; July 26, 1998), Abridged Attachment 5 (SAL III Policy Reforms Program Matrix, less the two columns describing the
actions to be taken prior to the second and the third tranche releases of SAL 111).



Annex E (continued)
Page 2 of 39
REFORM OF INFRASTRUCTURE MONOPOLIES
Policy       Actions Taken For Board                                                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                    SAL III
On    April   28,    1997                                                The  Government has    required  (Government
Presidential Decree No. 426                                              directive No. 968-r of July 17, 1998) that, starting
"On Fundamental Principles                                               with the  financial accounts for  1998, the
of Structural Reforms in                                                 consolidated IAS financial accounts of Gazprom,
Sectors    of     Natural                                                RAO UESR, and Transneft, and, starting with the
Monopolies" was issued as                                               financial accounts for 1999, the Railways, are to be
outlined in the Concept Paper                                            audited and published annually by June 30 of the
"On Developing Plans for                                                following year by independent qualified auditors in
Structural  Reforms    of                                                accordance with international auditing standards.
Natural       Monopolies"                                                The  Government has    required  (Govermment
submitted to the Governent                                               Resolution No. 786 of July 17, 1998) that VAT be
deMarcr   ins 1rce.   The                                                calculated and collected on an accrual basis.
decree    instructed  the
Govermment to approve a                                                  The Government has simplified   (Govermment
detailed      medium-term                                                Resolution No. 789   of July  17, 1998) the
restructuring program to be                                              procedures  for termination  or limitation  of
adopted by a govermment                                                  electricity, heat, and gas supplies to organizations
resolution by June 30, 1997.                                             and consumers in the event of failure to pay for fuel
and energy resources supplied.
By July 31, 1998, the Government will issue a
Resolution  that  establishes  an  inter-agency
comnnission that coordinates and oversees reforms,
including development of measures and timetable of
actions, for the horizontal and vertical competitive
restructuring of key infrastructure monopolies. This
will cover the electric power, natural gas, railroads,
teleconumunications and oil transport sectors.
The Government is ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory agencies for energy
(FEC), transport (FSNMT), and telecommunications (FSRNMC).



Annex E (continued)
Page 3 of 39
Policy      Actions Taken For Board                                                   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I     |  Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II T                   SAL III
II. Electric Power Sector Program
To make        In the period up to April 30,  The Government introduced a two-block tariff for  The Federal Energy Conunission (Directive 17/6,
major progress  1997, the Government took  household  electricity  consumption  that  is  April 17, 1998) has adopted dispatching guidelines
towards        steps to ensure that the   differentiated by levels of consumption; this policy is  and procedures in the electricity sector to provide
creating an    representative  group  of based upon recommendations from the FEC dated  for the minimization of costs of energy supply to the
electric power  government officials on the  April 25, 1997. Implementation has been undertaken  wholesale electricity market.
sector with    Board of RAO UESR have     in most regions.                              Dispatching guidelines have been implemented in at
diversified    clear    instructions  to  The Government established an Inter-Ministerial  least one regional electricity grid.
ownership and  imiplement   governental   working group to ensure that its reform agenda for
opento         policies in the electric power  the power sector would be pursued. Iprovements in  coprehensive Wholesale Market Agreement is
competitive    sector.                    corporate goveance were punctuated during the    rtly being d
forces.                              Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of RAO  By August 1, 1998, RAO UESR will publicly
UESR on May 28, 1997, when the leadership for the  announce its intention of increasing private sector
reform agenda was established.                participation in Energos in which UESR has an
The Government has created an Independent equity stake.
Financial Operator (IFO) to establish a competitive  By August 1, 1998, the Government will issue a
wholesale electricity market under FEC Protocol #97  Resolution in which RAO UESR will be required to
dated June 25, 1997. It is in the process of establish separate accounts for generation and
establishing a Supervisory Council for the Wholesale  transmission (including dispatch) for regulatory
Market composed of representatives of market purposes. The Resolution will direct the Federal
participants (with no participant having a dominant  Energy Commnission:
position). The composition of the Supervisory  (i) by September 1, 1998, to develop pricing
Council will be finalized by the end of February  methodology and issue guidelines for the network
1998.                                         services provided by AO Energos;
Industrial customers that clear their arrears and pay  (i) by December 1, 1998, to develop pricing
cash  in  advance  receive  electricity  at an    byt December a , 1998, to dop pricin
economically efficient price. In June 1997, RAO  mndolgyandeises   guideleoRAnSsi
UESR announced that, as of July 1997, it would  and dispatch services provided by RAO UESR.
accept cash payments only (eliminating barter, The same Resolution will require that each AO
promissory  notes and  limited  use of mutual  Energo  will establish  separate  accounts for
settlements). Improvements have been gradual (as  generation, transmission (lines used exclusively for



Annex E (continued)
Page 4 of 39
Policy       Actions Taken For Board                                                    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL 11                      SAL III
existing barter agreements had to be respected) but transmission of bulk power) and distribution for
significant.  Cash  payments for RAO   UESR    regulatory purposes.
transmission services have nearly doubled between
June and September 1997. This enabled RAO UESR
to fully pay its tax obligations for 1997, and become
current with its salary payments to staff.
The FEC has made public preliminary wholesale
market agreements under FEC Protocol #104, dated
August 29, 1997. These contractual agreements
specify the duties and responsibilities of current
participants in the competitive Wholesale Market,
and were issued by the IFO in September, 1997.
Direct agreements between energy producers and
consumers have also been drafted and will be
approved by the FEC by end-November, 1997. Two
generation companies and four customers are
currently operating in the Wholesale Market and
expansion is actively being pursued.
The FEC has submitted a letter to the Govemment,
dated August 20, 1997, articulating the general
principles for commercial licensing of participants in
the wholesale power market. The Goverrment has
submitted a draft law on licensing to the Duma,
including amendments with regard to licensing for
activities in the wholesale power (capacity) market
and services for its operations. When the law is
approved, the Government will issue a Resolution
giving the FEC the exclusive right to issue licenses
for activities in the wholesale power (capacity)
market to participants in the power market.



Annex E (continued)
Page 5 of 39
Policy       Actions Taken-For-Board                                                   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                      SAL m
The Goverunent has outlined general pricing
principles and procedures for encouraging efficient
production and usage of electric power, and these
will continue to be refined and made more detailed.
The Government passed Resolution No. 1231 on
September 26, 1997 providing annual targets for the
reduction  of   cross-subsidies  in  electricity
consumption, ending with its elimnination by mid-
2000. The first steps have been taken this year
I resulting in price increases in most regions.
III. Natural Gas Sector Program
To promote                                In accordance with Government Resolution #987,  The Federal Energy Commission (Directive 12/5)
efficiency in                              1997, the Anti-Monopoly Committee has registered  has reduced cross-subsidization in natural gas (and
the natural gas                            RAO Gazprom as an economic entity controlling  the need for budget subsidies for gas consumed by
industry,                                  more than 35% of its corresponding market pursuant  households) by increasing the wholesale price of
achieve                                    to the law "On Competition and Restriction of  gas for household use (net of gas excise tax) to 76
greater                                    Monopoly Activities in Commodity Markets".     percent of the industrial wholesale price.
transparency                               The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has established a  The  Governnent has instructed  (Governnent
and                                        group within the Ministry to review further structural  directive No. 952-r of July 16, 1998) the Board of
accountability                             changes necessary to improve the efficiency of  State Representatives of RAO Gazprom to seek to
operations of                              natural gas supply.                           reorganize, by December 31, 1998, the existing
operations~ ~~ .o.f                                                          regional transmission operations of RAO Gazprom
Gazprom, and                               The Ministry of Economy has prepared a draft    ional transmission opertiose of  a  Guzprof
facilitate                                 Discussion Paper (October 14, 1997) outlining  into a single transmission enterprise or a number of
pipeline access                            general pricing  principles  and  procedures to   enterpri se onmartransmission corridors
for                                        encourage efficient production and usage of natural  sucwhenterprise or enterprises to be in compliance
independent                                gas. The draft principles also provide that, until a
gas producers,                             competitive market for gas production is introduced,  A draft Law has been submitted to the Duma
including                                  wholesale gas prices will be regulated: (a) at the city  requiring to move gas excises to an accruals basis.
those who are                              gate, with tariffs of gas transmission set separately;  By August 1 1998, the Governent will issue a
currently                                  or (b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas  B  A   1
flaring gas.                              transmission prices, each set separately. The FEC has  decision  requiring  Gazprom  to  operate the
issued ResolutionNo. 19/6,dated October31, 1997  company's transmission, production and supply
issued Renterprises will operate as separate cost/profit
.VI                                ___._._______ .A ___ 4.J 1. 



Annex E (continued)
Page 6 of 39
Policy       Actions Taken For Board                                                    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                     SAL III
establishing the procedures for regulating wholesale  centers with separate management teams and their
gas prices. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has  own accounts based on international accounting and
initiated negotiations with the firm of consultants  audit standards. The transmission enterprise(s) will
selected to carry out a World Bank-financed Gas  only provide gas transmission services.
Pricing Study starting November 4, 1997, which will  By July 31, 1998, the Govenment will adopt a
assist the Govenunent to define the detailed pncing  Resolution that provides for the elimination of state
methodology and procedures to be applied in setting  regulation of prices on gas sold by gas-producing
gas prices at various levels in the gas supply chain.  organizations not affiliated with RAO Gazprom.
In August 1997 the Federal Energy Commnission
published temporary rules and procedures for setting
differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas.
FEC Resolution 110 of September 26, 1997,
provides that, effective December 1, 1997, the
regional wholesale natural gas price differential
between the minimum and maximum price will be
increased from the current level of 12 percent to at
least 25 percent.
In Resolution No. 858 of July 14, 1997, the
Government adopted procedures for granting access
by independent producers of gas to the pipelines of
RAO Gazprorn
In Resolution No. 1269 of September 30, 1997, the
Government approved a regulation outlining the
responsibilities and operating procedures for the
Inter-Branch Conmmission which was formed under
Resolution 858 to review issues related to access by
independent producers.



Annex E (continued)
Page 7 of 39
Policy      Actions-Taken For Board                                                  Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                    SAL III
The FEC will continue the process of delegating the
power to implement the regulation of gas
distribution  tariffs and  gas prices for final
consumers to the regional energy commnissions
(RECs), where such regulation follows pricing
principles and procedures prepared by the FEC. The
RECs to which authority will be delegated will have
met the following criteria as set out by the FEC: (i)
appropriate legal basis for implementing the
regulations in question; (ii) adequate professional
staffing; (iii) operational rules approved by the
FEC; (iv) a chairperson approved by the FEC; and
(v) an established panel of independent experts for
advice and comment.
IV. Oil Sector Program
To improve                               On July 8, 1997, President Yeltsin issued decree No. In late 1997, the FEC published its initial views on
the efficiency                           694 "On Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs)" the principles on the methodology for setting
of oil transport                         ensuring  rights and benefits of the Russian  regulated  crude  oil transportation  tariffs on
through                                  Federation in implementing PSAs. In accordance  Transneft's pipeline system. By July 31, 1998, the
regulatory                               with the Federal Law "On Sites of Natural Resources  FEC will publish for comment its revised proposals
reform,                                  Deposits Entitled for Use under PSAs" there are  on this methodology, incorporating principles which
ensuring                                 seven sites that can be developed in accordance with  will (i) ensure that Transneft can recover prudently
equitable                                PSAs. The sites include five oil and gas fields, one  incurred costs of service from shippers, including a
access to                                iron ore deposit and one gold mine. By December 1, reasonable return on investment; (ii) encourage
pipelines, and                            1997, the Government will submit to the Duma a  efficient operations, and (iii) be based on costs so
creating a                               draft Law on Expansion of PSAs to additional areas.  that the tariffs should fully reflect differences in
favorable                                                                 .costs of service.
favesamen                                The Government has begun to put into place a
m*vmstment                                market-based (nondiscretionary  and transparent)  Access by oil producers to the oil pipeline network
climate.                                 system for access to oil transportation capacity in the  now contingent on compliance with agreements to
Novorosiisk and other constrained pipelines. A new  clear  outstanding  tax  arrears  (see  Fiscal
regime has been implemented through Presidential  Management reforms).
Decree No. # 693 of July 8, 1997 and Government



Annex E (continued)
Page 8 of 39
Policy       Actions Taken For Board                                                    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                     SAL III
Resolution # 1130, issued on September 2, 1997, in
which access is allocated in proportion to total
production. This regime will be effective throughout
1998. However, oil producers will have the right to
trade access rights.
All resolutions and directives covering programs of
export of oil and oil products for State needs were
eliminated on March 16, 1997, except for those
under Government Resolutions #579 of May 14,
1996, #208 of February 28, 1996, and #736 of
June24, 1996. Under Presidential Decree 693 of
July 8 and Government Resolution #988 of August 7,
the government abolished these oil export programs
effective October 1, 1997.
V. Railways Sector Program
To imnprove                                In the April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree No. 426,  The Government approved (Government Resolution
efficiency                                 the Government took actions to set forth the main  No. 448 dated May 15, 1998) a Concept for
within the                                 thrust of structural reform in the railway sector. The  Structural Reform of Federal Railway Transport
railway                                    decree set forth a staged plan of restructuring over a  which  broadly  outlines plans  for separating
system, ensure                             three year period. With respect to improvtng the  passenger and freight services and identifies major
reasonable                                railway's competitive market structure, the following  assets to be allocated to each business.
tariffs, and                               measures were included on the agenda for 1997: (a)
create the                                to introduce a new    procedure of Government   The Goveridnent has agreed to develop proposals
basis for                                  regulation of freight tariffs that would take into  on budget subsidization of railway passenger traffic.
privatization                              account patterns and volume of traffic, increases in  It was also agreed that the remaminig federal
of certain                                labor productivity, restructuring and cost-cutting  prateges on the  fares  f     thpassenger
services.                                  measures, etc.; (b) to phase-out cross-subsidization  categores are to be financed from the federal
of passenger losses by freight customers and provide  budget. in the 1998 budget, a sum of Rb 450
compensation for passenger losses in Federal and million is included for Federal compensation of
local budgets as appropriate; (c) to lower freight  itercitypassengerlosses.
tariffs; (d) to separate unused facilities and divest  For most products, preferential tariffs expired on
these and other ancillary activities; (e) to create  December 31, 1997. MPS has drafted regulations
conditions for the development of competition in the  providing for elimination of most of the remaining



Annex E (continued)
Page 9 of 39
Policy       Actioirs Taken For Board                                                   Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                      SAL HI
rail services market that would provide equal access  preferential tariffs.
to rail infrastructure and repair facilities to different FSNMT adopted (Directive 1211 of April 14, 1998)
owners of rolling stock; and (f) to complete the  reguladopted      freight    ril     tariff
establishment of the Federal Service to Regulate  regulations tomting  freight   railway  tariff
NtrlMonopolies in Transport (FSNMT).        adjustments to increases in the industrial producer
Natural Monopolies in Transport (FSNMT).       price index less 3 percentage points on an
The head of the FSNMT was appointed.           annualized basis throughout the year.
On September 30, 1997, the Government issued a  Government Resolution No. 338 of March 21, 1998
resolution reducing average rates for freight (total  approves a list of railway transport ancillary
revenues divided by ton-kilometers) by 5 percent services for divestiture. A list of social assets has
compared to rates effective in September 1, 1997.  been approved by MPS Letter No. K-4687 of May
Several other freight rate reductions were introduced  20, 1998. Government Directives Nos. 424 and 425
as of July 1, 1997 including (a) reductions on  transfer some social assets to municipalities.
specific commodities at specific rates, as set forth in
a June 13, 1997 minutes of a meeting held by First By  July  30, 1998, MPS  will provide the
Deputy Prime Minister Nemtsov with Deputy      Government with the book value and current
Ministers of MOE, MOF and MPS; and, (b) on new  railway ownership of assets identified in the list it
traffic (against previous year totals for individual  submitted to the Government on April 30, 1998,
shippers) provided the increase is of certain volume  together with a timetable for their divestiture.
(3000 tons), and on existing traffic to shippers
relative to the time of downpayment.
To enhance transparency regarding the provision of
preferential tariffs and to clarify the framework under
which regional railways can offer discounts to
shippers, and in compliance with clause 4 of
Government Resolution #410 of April 8, 1997, the
FSNMT issued regulations and methodologies
governing railway tariffs, including discounts and
preferential tariffs.



Annex E (continued)
Page 10 of 39
Policy      Actions Taken For Board                                                     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I         Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                     SAL III
The Government is establishing general pricing
principles and procedures that will help to encourage
efficient provision and usage of railway services. In
compliance with Government Resolution #410 of
April 8, 1997, an order dated May 14, 1997 was
jointly issued by the Ministry of Railways and
Ministry of Economy that outlines a methodology for
regulating railway freight tariffs.
Resolution #410 also ordered that changes in railway
tariffs and fee rates shall not exceed the index of
wholesale prices for industrial goods producers
across the Russian Federation in the respective
period.  This  measure  is  evidence  that the
Govemment is coming to grips with the problem that
rail rates have risen faster than inflation. However, in
order to ensure that the effects of this measure are
long-lasting, future indexation should not be
automatic as it has in the past since there is
agreement that freight rates can be further reduced.
As it may be difficult to evaluate, on a timely basis,
submissions by MPS of cost data justifying tariff
increases, a simpler approach under consideration is
to permit automatic indexing of freight rates to the
wholesale industrial price index and promote
additional  reductions  on  the  overall levels.
Specifically, the FSNMT is considering limiting the
overall increase of average freight rates in 1998 to
the wholesale price index minus 3 percentage points,
to be measured on a quarterly basis, i.e. 0.75% per
quarter.
The present pricing methodology mentions the need
to take into account railway restructuring plans and
cost-reduction measures, but does not explicitly tie



Annex E (continued)
Page 11 of 39
Policy       Actions Taken-For-Board                                                   Actions Taken Prior to Board-Presentation of
Objective        Approval of SAL I        Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL II                      SAL III
the railways to any specific restructuring plan. In the
longer term, it is anticipated that the railways will
restructure in a way that would make the industry
more competitive and commercial. Thus, in time, it is
hoped tariff regulation of freight traffic would be
based more on an exception basis, where there is
little competition or a clear possibility for abuse of
monopoly power. In the meantime, however, as
passenger losses are shifted to the budget,
manufacturing and social assets divested and other
cost-cutting measure introduced, it is anticipated that
there should be additional decreases in the minimum
freight tariff rates.
Cross-subsidies of passenger losses through freight
rates are being phased out by a combination of
measures  including:  raising  passenger  fares;
devolving suburban services to municipal and
regional Governments and ensuring that losses on
these services are compensated through budgets of
subjects of the Federation as appropriate; by
separating passenger from freight services and taking
mneasures to cut costs where appropriate; by
compensating intercity passenger losses through the
Federal budget and/or eliminating remaining federal
privileges on the fares of individual passenger
categories. On September 15, 1997 the Government
issued Resolution No. 389, which, effective that day,
increased intercity passenger rates by 10 percent;
destinations to the Baltics and CIS countries were
increased 65%.



Annex E (continued)
Page 12 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                       of SAL3
I. Privatization
To increase the                                                                               On July 20, 1998, a special Policy Statement
efficiency in the                                                                             was issued by the Chairnan of the Government
use of assets                                                                                 of the Russian Federation, which will be
employed in fnr-ns                                                                            published widely in the international media,
and stimulate                                                                                 that states the Government's commitment to
investment so as                                                                              expand and accelerate significantly the process
to resume                                                                                     of transparent and competitive privatization of
economic growth                                                                               Russian  enterprises  in  the  process  of
and create jobs,                                                                              implementing  the  1998-99   privatization
and to engender                                                                               program. This will be accomnplished through
revenues for the                                                                              case-by-case  privatization  of the  largest
state budget.                                                                                enterprises in accordance with Government
Resolutions 363 and 564 of 1997, and through
(i) the significant reduction in the number of
firrs currently denoted as "strategic" and (ii)  00
their rivatization.
a. Privatization  On April I and May 12, 1997,  The Ministry for State Property (MSP, formerly  Financial Advisors' pre-sale preparation work
of Large        the   Government    issued  GKI) announced a change in the composition of the for Kama Pulp and Paper and Russkii Dizel
Enterprises     Resolutions No. 363 ("On the  firms to participate in the 4-firn pilot Case by Case  underway, but experiencing delays. Tenders
Procedure   Goveming    the  Privatization  Program, as identified in earlier  expected early autumn  1998. Government
Implementation of Case-by-  Government Resolutions Nos. 363 and 564, and GKI  suspended  privatization  of Domodedovo
Case Privatization Projects")  Directive No. 356-r due to the fact that (i)  Airlines and Domodedovo Aeroservice due to
and  No.   564   ("On  the  Domodedovo    Production  Association  for Civil regional authorities' objections.
Introduction of Changes in  Aviation is to be split into three entities and (ii)
Resolution No. 363 of the   Pulkovo Airlines and Rosgosstrakh are no longer  The 1998 program will expand and accelerate
Government of the Russian   under consideration to be included in the CBC   the process of transparent and competitive
Federation  Dated  April 1, program (at least not in 1997). On July 31, 1997,  Case-by-Caseprivatization.
1997  'On   the  Procedure  GKI Directive 670-R specified that the 4 participant  On July 7, 1998 the Ministry of State Property
Governing the Implementation  firms are: Domodedovo Aeroservice, Domodedovo  issued an ordinance establishing a list of 15
of Case-by-Case Privatization  Airlines, Kama Pulp and Paper, and Russkii Dizel.  enterprises that are part of the draft State
Projects'  "),  respectively,                                               Privatization Program and are to be privatized
specifying    rules    and                                                  according  to the case-by-case procedures



Annex E (continued)
Page 13 of 39
-________  -____________         _   PRIVAT-E SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
implementation procedures for The above changes, in part, contributed to the  specified in Government Resolutions 363 and
case-by-case   privatization  inability to meet the June 30, 1997 program date for  564 of 1997. The ordinance will establish a
requiring them  to be fully inviting financial advisors to submit bids to assist  schedule for privatizing these enterprises such
open    and     competitive  with the privatization of the four finms and the  that they will be offered for sale not later than
(including through equal and  August 31, 1997 deadline for the tender conmmittees  December 31, 1998, if such  dates are
open access to domestic and  to issue tenders. Following consultation with the  determined on advice of independent financial
foreign buyers), and using  World Bank, which is supporting (through the PIAL  advisors as most desirable based on market
openly  and   competitively  loan) the technical assistance for completing 3 of the  conditions. The percentage of equity offered
selected,     internationally  4 pilot transactions, MSP issued in correspondence  will be  determined  in  consultation  with
reputable financial advisors. dated October 10, 13, and 22, 1997, a timeline that  independent  financial  advisors.  These
The privatizations are to be  specifies the complete timetable of actions to be  enterprises are:
widely advertised domestically taken for all 4 fims. For the 3 transactions receiving  1. OAO Orenburg Oil JSC (Orenburg oblast);
and          internationally.  financial support from the World Bank, the key  2. OAO "Kovrovo Electric Machine Plant"
Enterprises will be valued at points of this timetable are: (i) "Bidding Package"  (Vladimir oblast);
market prices or, if they are  (Letter of Invitation + Terms of Reference +  3. OAO Western-Siberian Iron & Steel Factory
not traded, based on standard  Standard  Contract) to  be sent to short-listed  (Kemerovo Oblast);
business valuation procedures. Financial Advisors (FAs) by the following dates:  4. OAO  "Stupino ITon &  Steel Factory"
Financial advisors will be  Kama   Pulp   and  Paper:  August  22,  1997,  (Nizhni Novgorod Oblast)n
reputable, and valuation will Domodedovo Airlines: August 28, 1997, and Russkii  5. OAO "Nizhni Novgorod Machine Building
be done based on international Dizel: October 24, 1997; (ii) Negotiations to  Plant" i
standards.                  commence with the selected FAs by the following  6P OAO "Oil & Gas Co. "Slavneft" (Moscow)
For the initial 4-fum  pilot dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: October 23, 1997 and R7 Rybinsk Instrumentation Factory (Yaroslavl
progam, o b   comlete  inDomodedovo Airlines: October 22, 1997 and Russkii  Ols)
program, tonMay1, be c ethe i Dizel: January 5, 1998 (iii) Contracts to be signed  8 moast);
1997, on May 15, 1997, the  with the selected FAs by the following dates: Kama  8.Kemerovo Mechanical Plant (Kemerovo
Govementscieted    ourPulp and Paper: November 14, 1997, Domodedovo  Oblast);
companies from the following                          and undl Pape: November 6 , 1997 ,  Dizel by d   Kamensk Chemical Factory (Rostov Oblast);
list of 10 enterprises for case- Ailines November 6, 1997; 1                10. Factory "Krasny gigant" (Penza Oblast);
by-case privatization in 1997  anuary  ,  .                                 11. PO (Prod. Association) "Avangard" (Ufa);
under    the      principles  The Government is commnitted to implementing  12. GPO   "ZiM  named after Maslennikov
established  by  Govemment future privatizations on the basis of a common  (Samara Oblast);
Resolutions No. 363 and No. framework of principles and procedures that ensures  13. Plant "Kommunar";
564:               Tymauz   transparency,  openness  and  competition. The  14. NPO "Geofizika" (Moscow);
Tungsten-Molybdenum         methods for canying out future privatizations shall



Annex E (continued)
Page 14 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                      of SAL3
Kombinat (Kabardino- Balkar  be "commercial competitive bidding", and "auctions"  15.  Vysokogorsky  Mechanical  Works
Oblast),      Domodedovo    or "specialized auctions" as defined in law, including  (Sverdlovsk Oblast).
Production  Association  for  "On Privatizing State Property and on the Principles
Civil  Aviation   (Moscow   of Privatizing Municipal Property in the Russian
Oblast), Taganrog Sea Trade  Federation" adopted by the State Duma on 24th June,
Port (Rostov Oblast), Kamsk  1997 (the Privatization Law). In accordance with the
Pulp  and Paper Kombinat relevant laws, bidding procedures will encourage all
(Perm   Oblast),   Mosfilm  interested parties to participate; privatizations will be
(Moscow), Lumber Factory    widely advertised, including internationally where
No. 21   (Vologda  Oblast), this could attract additional qualified buyers; when
Troitsk    Iodine    Plant employed, financial advisers will be reputable, and
(Orenburg Oblast), Pulkovo  engaged through a transparent, competitive process;
Airlines (Leningrad Oblast), conflicts of interest will be avoided; and bid
State Enterprise Russkii Dizel evaluations will be carried out objectively.
(St. Petersburg), Rosgosstrakh  In accordance with the Privatization Law, in August,
(MOSCOW).     These   four  1997 the Government submitted to the State Duma
enterprises are: Domoateovo  the "State Program of Privatization in the Russian
Civil Aviation, Kamsk Pulp  Federation" (State Privatization Program), which
andl P  iaiobint, KamsPulpov  identifies two lists: (i) 37 state enterprises held in
anes Pan K   om  goatrPko.. federal property and subject to reorganization into
ATrleees, ann  ROSgOsStraKn. open joint stock  companies and privatization
shreleentedrsposesi ve sbse  beginning in 1998; and (ii) 29 open joint stock
if tee implemen      caste  companies whose federally held shares are subject to
If the iplementation of case-  sale beginning in 1998. Not counting the four pilot
by-case privatization of any of case-by-case transactions initiated in 1997, at least a
the four above enterprises  quarter of the enterprises which are on the lists (i)
prove Inpossible because of and  (ii) above, and   which  will experience
technial        les    ta   continuation of privatization measures initiated in
technical  difficulties  that  1997 or initiation of such measures in 1998, will be
constitute a case of force  privatized through "case-by-case" transactions as
majeure. These are: Mosfilm, defined by Government Resolutions 363 and 564-R
Russkii Dizel, and Taganrog  of 1997 (involving in particular the engagement of
financial advisers as early as possible in the process),



Annex E (continued)
Page 15 of 39
PRIVATE- SECTOR- DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective  Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                     of SAL3
Sea  Trade  Port.   (GKI financial advisers as early as possible in the process),
Directive 356-r.)          and building on any experience from the four pilots.
On   April 24, 1997, the   The Government will take all reasonable steps to
GOvermnent2 appointed tder ensure State Duma deliberation on the State
Government appointed tender Privatization Program, and to facilitate its passage.
comrittees    for    these  Should the State Duma not approve the legislation in
pnrvatizations (GKI Directive  a timely fashion, the Government will take all
317-r).                    necessary and feasible steps in conformity with the
legislation in force to enable the privatizations
referred to in (i) and (ii) above to proceed in 1998-
99 in accordance with the approaches defined above.
Government Resolution # 989 (issued August 7,
1997) on the "Procedure for Transferring Federally
Owned Shares of Joint Stock Companies Created in
the Course of Privatization to Trust Managers and
Concluding   Trust  Management    Agreements
Regarding those Shares" met many, but not all, of the
criteria set out under the program for implementing
market-based guidelines for trust management
arrangements, including the competitive selection of
trust managers. MSP will issue a directive by
November   30,  1997   that  contains  detailed
implementing regulations that specify: (a) a trust
nanagement contract has the objective of improving
the financial operation of enterprises and to prepare
them for privatization following the expiration of the
contract; (b) contracts are to specify performance
based compensation linked to financial results; (c)
compensation is to be paid through the term of the
contract, not a lump-sum paid at the contract's
expiration. It is noted, that according to Article 1015
of the Second Part of the Civil Code, property shall
I not be subject to transfer under trust management to



Annex E (continued)
Page 16 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                       of SAL3
a state agency or a local self-government body. An
individual entrepreneur or a for-profit organization
except for a unitary enterprise may act as a trust
manager. In accordance with Government Resolution
989, evaluation of contract bids is to be carried out
using methods that are consistent with international
standards of competition, neutrality and equity.
b. Reduction of                                                                             Government Resolution No. 784 of July 17,
Lists of                                                                                    1998 reduced from 3,000 to 697 the number of
"Strategic"                                                                                 firms included in the list of "strategic"
Firms                                                                                       enterprises under Government Resolution No.
949 of September 18, 1995 barred from any
privatization to either domestic or foreign
investors. The Resolution specifies that the
enterprises removed from the "strategic" list
will be subject to transparent and competitive
privatization processes, beginning September
30, 1998 to December 31, 2000. For the
enterprises removed from the "strategic" list, in
accordance with market conditions as assessed
by independent financial advisors, at least 40
percent will be brought to the point of sale by
December 31, 1999, and 100 percent will be
brought to the point of sale by December 31,
2000.
II. Bankruptcy
To make the       The   Federal  Service  on  The Gov't. sent a draft bankruptcy law to the Duma.  The new Bankruptcy Law became effective in
bankruptcy        Insolvency  and   Financial  Relative to current law, the new draft provides for:  March 1998.
process more      Rehabilitation, based on an  (i) an increased role for creditor committees in the
efficient.        assessment  of   completed  resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) more expeditious
bankruptcy  cases  to  date,  appointment on a competitive basis of licensed
developed and made public   trustees  with  authority to replace  incumbent
recommendations to increase  enterprise managers; (iii) differentiation of classes of



Annex E (continued)
Page 17 of 39
__________  -      PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective  Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                     of SAL3
the speed and effectiveness of creditors; and (iv) stricter observance of time limits
the bankruptcy process.    for workout and liquidation proceedings by all
parties.
In addition to the actions aimed at improving
the bankruptcy legislative framework, the
restructuring process in the Russian economy
could be expedited by implementing pilot
projects targeted towards bankruptcy of
insolvent enterprises in cases that are especially
difficult in such a way that minimizes possible
negative social consequences of bankruptcy.
For such purposes, and taking into account the
basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy Law,
the Government of the Russian Federation will
approve, by adopting appropriate directives, a
procedure for implementing and financing
bankruptcy pilot projects involving insolvent
enterprises. In compliance with the above
mentioned procedure as well as in accordance
with the goals outlined in the first sentence of
the current paragraph, the Federal Service on
Bankruptcy    Matters   and     Financial
Rehabilitation, shall implement in 1998 at least
4 bankruptcy pilots embracing large enterprises
that experience serious financial difficulties and
have bad market prospects. The results of the
pilots implemented will be widely reflected in a
report of the Federal Service of Russia for
Bankruptcy    Matters    and    Financial
Rehabilitation to (i) provide arbitrators with
data on the relevant procedures; and (ii)
provide creditors and other persons concerned
with the most detailed information about the



Annex E (continued)
Page 18 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective  Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                     of SAL3
mechanisms  and   advantages  of hearing
bankruptcy cases in the court.
III. Competition Policy
Strengthening the                                                                          In order to foster resolution of business
government's                                                                               disputes, new measures shall be implemented
capacity to                                                                                by July 31, 1998 that strengthen and enlarge
intervene to                                                                               the bailiff service so as to provide for more
promote                                                                                    effective enforcement compliance, including
competition.                                                                               criminal sanctions, by losing defendants in
arbitrazh court cases.
The mission of the Antimonopoly Committee
should have as principal objectives the creation
of a unified economic space throughout the
Russian Federation and preventing restrictive
business  practices,  in  particular  anti-
competitive mergers and acquisitions. The
Antimonopoly Committee will develop and
implement policy measures that deal with
reducing  anti-competitive  horizontal  and
vertical concentration and integration in key
product and geographic manufacturing and
infrastructure monopoly markets, including
industrial and financial groups (FIGs) and the
petroleum sector.
IV. Corporate Governance and Investor Rights
Clearly signal the                                                                         By July 1, 1998, a Presidential Decree will be
government's                                                                               issued that implements measures to protect
determnination to                                                                          depositors' rights, including measures towards
protect investors.                                                                         liquidation  (bankruptcy)  of  non-licensed
companies, sale of such companies' assets, and
paying compensation to victimized mvestors.



Annex E (continued)
Page 19 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
Government Resolution No. 785 of July 17,
1998 adopted and initiated implementation of
the State Program of Protection of Investors'
Rights, which spells out key tasks and measures
to be undertaken in 1998 and 1999. The
Government will also ensure that the Federal
Securities Commission (FSC) will be provided
sufficient resources to enforce investors' rights.
This will be achieved by assigning a share of
fee revenue from licensing of securities' market
participants to the FSC.
V. Fostering Labor Mobility
VI. Land/Real Estate
To further        Presidential Decree No. 485  Under the prograrn, by June 30, 1997 a presidential  In  December  1997,  model  municipal
develop the legal  "On Guarantees to Owners of decree was to be issued to cover four main goals to  regulations and procedures were prepared for
and institutional  Real Estate to Buy Land on  foster land/real estate transactions: (i) create a legal  the sale of unoccupied and/or undeveloped land
framework for full  Which  These  Assets  Are  framework requiring that the sale of all premises  through auctions and competitive tenders.
private ownership  Located" was issued on May  belonging to the federal Government which are
and development   16, 1997 to establish the   currently under lease to commnercial entities be
of land and real  necessary        legislative  carried out at market rates; (ii) elimninate all existing
estate.           framework  to   enable  all restrictions on the market sale of such real estate;
owners of privatized non-land  (iii) all future leases of the federal owned property
real estate assets (including  will be at market prices; and (iv) recommend that all
production      complexes, the procedures outlined in the decree be followed by
buildings,  and  unfinished  regional and local Governments. A  presidential
construction) to acquire the  decree was not issued; a new privatization law was
land on which these assets are  passed by the Durna in June 1997. An analysis was
located.   For   all future  performed by MSP that assesses the nature of the
privatization of such assets, gaps between the earlier agreed objectives and the
the associated land plots will privatization law. The analysis indicates that many of
be included in the transaction  the  above-mentioned  objectives  are  covered.
package.



Annex E (continued)
Page 20 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                       of SAL3
Presidential Decree No. 1263 was issued on
November 26, 1997, which establishes a legal
framework for market-based sales of undeveloped
land and/or land not currently in use (including
nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used
for commercial development, including through
auctions and competitive tenders.
VII. Accounting a d Auditing
To achieve
substantial
progress in
implementing
financial
accounting and
auditing standards
and practices in
line with
international
principles.
a. Accounting                               The Government approved an Action Program to
introduce generally accepted accounting principles
consistent with International Accounting Standards
(IAS).
The Action Program: (i) identifies any necessary
amendments to laws or other normative acts to
facilitate the use of IAS by Russian issuers in
disclosure of financial information; (ii) requires the
MOF to approve regulations by October 31, 1997
mandating lAS-consistent disclosure by January
1998 of financial information to investors by Russian
enterprises which have a significant secondary
market in their securities or which propose to offer



Annex E (continued)
Page 21 of 39
-_________           PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective  Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SAL1                                                                     of SAL3
their securities to the public, and to require the same
for all other enterprises by January 1999; and (iii)
outlines a strategy and timetable for adaptation of the
entire accounting system for enterprises to bring it
into conformity with intemational practices. This
strategy and timetable will include: steps for
transition to a revised chart of accounts; a plan for
training  of  accounting   personnel;  further
improvement of the process of certification of
professional accountants and auditors; and an
approach to developing accounting and audit
practices such that any authorized system using
accounting information will not preclude lAS-
consistent financial accounting information. With
respect to (ii), the MOF issued the regulations on
October 14, 1997.
With regard to accounting reform, the
Government will ensure the implementation to
January 1999 of the measures specified in the
Action Plan of the Accounting Reform Program
based on International Accounting Standards
(IAS), approved by Government Resolution No
283, to develop national accounting standards
consistent with IAS and to support the
establishment  of   the    self-regulating
independent accounting professional body.
b. Auditing                                A parallel set of activities to those listed above
regarding the introduction of financial accounts
based on int'l. standards was initiated to introduce
independent audits of such accounts in enterprises. In
particular, the Government approved and published
for public comment an Action Program to require, no



Annex E (continued)
Page 22 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
later than June 1999, independent audits of the
financial accounts of enterprises.
VIII. Liberalizing the International Trade and Foreign Direct Investment Regimes
To send a clear   Under the program, trade policy commitments have been made to preserve what liberalization has already been achieved. No quantitative
signal to foreign  restrictions will be introduced on intemational trade transactions, with the possible exception of any protectionist measures that might be
investors of the  taken fully consistent with WTO rules. The Government will also strive to reduce import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an
govemment's       eventual reduction in import tariffs. Centralized trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and defense-related equipment. Trade
intentions to     under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the government will be conducted on the basis of market-
ensure they       based procurement, with prices at world levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Government will
receive fair      refrain from operating any system of export controls under the guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity, quality, or price of exports.
treatment and to
harmonize
production
certification
standards with
intemational
practice so as to
reduce barriers to
foreign trade.
a. Foreign
Direct
Investment
Policy
b. Production                               In August 1997, amendments to draft legislation  Revisions  and  harmonization  of Russian
Certification                               were introduced to ensure that the emerging legal  legislation, regulation and other measures, and
Standards                                   framework for trade measures (safeguards, anti- their practical application to international trade
dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) will be in line  and  investment continue to be made in
with intemational norms.                       accordance with intemational standards and
In August 1997, Government Resolution No. 1037  practices.
was issued that revises product labeling standards.
Detailed information of what retailers are to provide
shall be clearly specified, as will be the list of



Annex E (continued)
Page 22 of 39
-_________                      PRIVATE- SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                     of SAL3
later than June 1999, independent audits of the
financial accounts of enterprises.
VIII. Liberalizing the International Trade and Foreign Direct Investment Regimes
To send a clear   Under the program, trade policy commitments have been made to preserve what liberalization has already been achieved. No quantitative
signal to foreign  restrictions will be introduced on international trade transactions, with the possible exception of any protectionist measures that might be
investors of the  taken fully consistent with WTO rules. The Government will also strive to reduce import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an
government's      eventual reduction in import tariffs. Centralized trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and defense-related equipment. Trade
intentions to     under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the government will be conducted on the basis of market-
ensure they      based procurement, with prices at world levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Government will
receive fair     refrain from operating any system of export controls under the guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity, quality, or price of exports.
treatment and to
harmonize
production
certification
standards with
international
practice so as to
reduce barriers to
foreign trade.
a. Foreign
Direct
Investment
Policy
b. Production                              In August 1997, amendments to draft legislation  Revisions and  harmonization  of Russian
Certification                              were introduced to ensure that the emerging legal legislation, regulation and other measures, and
Standards                                  framework for trade measures (safeguards, anti- their practical application to international trade
dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) will be in line  and investment continue to be made in
with international norms.                     accordance with international standards and
In August 1997, Government Resolution No. 1037  practices.
was issued that revises product labeling standards.
Detailed information of what retailers are to provide
shall be clearly specified, as will be the list of



Annex E (continued)
Page 23 of 39
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                       of SAL3
products subject to the regulation; the classification
system has been streamlined; and national treatment
standards have been incorporated.
In September 1997, Government Resolution No.
1193 was issued that revises the system for marking
products to ensure against counterfeiting in line with
international standards. The coverage of products
requiring such markings have been reduced and
mandatory restrictions have been narrowed; the
certification process has been streamlined.
c. Tariff                                                                                   The Safeguard Commission approved a list of
Reductions                                                                                  300 items for which the import duty rate will be
reduced from 30 percent to 20 percent by
December 31, 1998, and a Government
Resolution adopting this was issued on June 3,
1998.



Annex E (continued)
Page 24 of 39
F-ISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                     of SAL3
The government announced its anti-crisis Economic Stabilization and Finance Program in late June 1998. Key fiscal measures under the program include
improvement of tax administration, raising and rationalizing select taxes, and restructuring of budget commitments. A Presidential Decree setting out the
budget parameters for 1999 was issued on July 16, 1998. Subsequently, a Presidential Address that formulates the 1999 budget-including key measures to
underpin the budget targets-was signed on July 17, 1998 (and published on July 20, 1998). The Government's strategy focuses on further reducing the budget
deficit by turning around the ongoing serious erosion in revenue collections while also making more effective use of limited fiscal resources. The federal
government has committed itself to undertaking measures aimed at increasing total revenue collection from an around 10.6% of GDP projected in 1998, to a
targeted level of 13.2% of GDP in 1999, while holding constant nominal federal non-interest expenditures. As a result, the 1999 primary fiscal balance is
targeted to improve to nearly three percent of GDP from a small negative balance this year. This dramatic shift will be achieved through efforts to broaden the
tax base, improve revenue collection, strengthen budget management, rationalize government spending, reform intergovernmental fiscal relations, and
strengthen debt management and monitoring capacity. In addition, the government is committed to improving the management and cost efficiency of extra
budgetary funds, including the Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund, Employment Fund and Road Fund, together representing nearly 10% of GDP.
I. Elimination of Non-Payments and Arrears
To eliminate                                                                               The Deputy Prime Minister siged a resolution
arrears and the
practice of non-                                                                           on June 18, 1998 stipulating that agreements
between the State Tax   Service and oil
payments.                                                                                  producing enterprises will be prepared and
signed within a week and oil holdings with
outstanding tax arrears not in compliance with
these agreements will be denied access to the
oil pipeline. It has been publicly announced
that nonpayment by July I will automatically
and immediately lead to curtailed pipeline
access.
On July 17, 1998, a Presidential Address on the
principles of the 1999 budget was issued
instructing the Government to prepare and
submit to the Durna a draft 1999 Budget Law
which stipulates terms and conditions to be met
by regions in order to qualify for their full share
of federal transfer payments.



Annex E (continued)
Page 25 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objecfive   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
I_    Approval of SALl      l                                               I                of SAL3
II. Tax Administration and Policy
To strengthen
revenue collection
performance,
improve tax
administration,
and reduce
distortions in the
tax structure.
a) Design       The   Government submitted   The draft Tax Code passed its first reading in the  The Federal Assembly adopted Part I of the
overall tax     the draft Tax Code, through  State Duma; however, the Duma decided to send the  Tax Code in its third reading, with the
reform package  which it intends to undertake a  Code back for a new first reading. The Government  provision for offsets eliminated and the cap on
significant  reform  of  tax  continued to work closely with the State Duma to  interest increased from 50 percent of tax arrears
policy, to the State Duma on  secure final adoption of the Code on a timely basis.  to 100 percent.
April 30, 1997.             As part of the draft Tax Code, the Government
submitted draft legislation to introduce an improved
framework for the taxation of capital income. This
framework includes shifts toward: (i) uniformity of
tax rates and treatment for securities and other
financial assets, including removal of tax privileges
or exemptions for specific types of securities; (ii)
elimination of double taxation on investment through
collective investment vehicles such as mutual fluds;
(iii) deductibility of capital losses from the sale of
securities. Moreover, the draft Tax Code does not
stipulate any transaction taxes or fees on the
circulation of securities.
b) Reform of    Among many improvements,                                                    The Federal Assembly adopted legislation
the structure of  the  Code  envisages  the                                                 approving  a  5  percent sales tax, with
individual taxes  elimination or phase-out of                                               exemptions for bread, milk, and children's food
almost all existing exemptions                                             and clothing, as well as provisions allowing the
for the VAT and the deduction                                              regions to introduce their own exemptions on



Annex E (continued)
Page 26 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
of normal business expenses                                                social grounds. The revenue impact of the
when measuring the profit tax                                              exemptions is small.
base. It also includes the
adt. I      o       accrual                                                A Presidential Decree was issued raising rates
adoption     of     accrualfothladax
accounting; the indexation of                                              for the land tax.
specific  excise  rates  for                                               The tax rate on profits was reduced from 35
inflation; the elimination of                                              percent to 30 percent.
preferential rates under the                                               Means-tested subsidies have been ntroduced.
profit tax; and a siniplification
of filing requirements under
the profit tax and personal
income tax.
c) Assessment   On   April  4,   1997,  the                                                 The Federal Assembly adopted a law removing
of tax          Government eliminated the tax                                               exemptions  for  closed  territories.  The
exemptions      deductibility of transfers by                                               exemptions will be allowed to expire as
RAO   UES    Rossii to  its                                                initially planned, but no later than January 1,
Investment Fund, with   no                                                 2000.
accompanying  increase  in
electricity prices (Government
Resolution No. 390).
d) Develop an   In the period up to May 15, As of September 30, 1997, the Government has    The Large Taxpayer Inspectorate is not fully
efficient and    1997, the Government notified  established and made operational large taxpayer  operational, but central offices of 17 large
impartial tax   more than 15 of the largest units of the Federal State Tax Service in five regions.  financial-industrial groups have been shifted
administration  debtors to the federal budget                                 .             under its jurisdiction. The employees of the
that can        that within one month, they  In November 1997, the Government introduced a  Inspectorate still need to be relocated to one
overcome a      will have to decide among    new Action Plan to Increase Collection of Taxes and  single office. The Government has issued an
pervasive "non-  three options for resolving  Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures. Major steps  order allocating the resources to cover the
paymenttheir otstandng tax  rrears that will be taken under this action plan include: (i)  epne  fteIsetrt
payment         their outstanding tax arrears: the termination of noncash arrangements ("offsets")
culture"        (i) payrg their arrears in full; for clearing tax and spending arrears, which will  A legal framework has been established for tax
(in)  partscipating  in  the  become effective on January 1, 1998, as stipulated in  authorities to seize the assets of tax
announced    scheme     of a November 7, 1997 Presidential Decree; (ii) the  delinquents.
collateralized restructuring of 



Annex E (continued)
Page 27 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
arrears; and  (iii) initiating  establishment of firm expenditure control through the  Collection of arrears from large tax debtors will
bankruptcy proceedings.     consolidation of all federal spending under the  continue to be a central element of the revenue
The Government endorsed an  Treasury, supported by sanctions against officials of  collection strategy. From July 1, 1998 and
action plan to establish large  institutions  receiving  budgetary  resources  for  during  the  remainder of the  year, the
taxpayer units in the State Tax  undertaking expenditure liabilities not covered by  Emergency  Tax  Commission  will  meet
Service (STS Orders No. BA-  budgetary  funding,  improved   reporting  of  monthly, to take steps to collect arrears in each
3-20/27 of February 17, 1997,  expenditure arrears, and other expenditure control  quarter from at least the 20 largest remaining
BA-3-32/57  of March   25,  mechamsms;     (ni)   the   development   and   tax debtors. Further, a newly created Federal
1997, and PV-3-32/104   of  implementation of a realistic spending plan to  Debt Center will begin sales of the assets
May 13, 1997).              underpin the 1998 budget, including spending norms  seized from tax debtors. All necessary steps
for such items as electricity and heating; (iv) strong  will be taken to ensure that the specialized tax
The Government has adopted  measures to improve tax collection, including taking  inspectorate, established under Government
an action plan to strengthen  actions against large high-profile tax debtors and  Resolution No. 9 vitbhin the State Tax Service
the collection of alcohol taxes,  enterprises that do not carry out the decisions of the  :
including  steps to  control Emergency Tax Commission (VChK), creating the  (STS) to moitor the largest tax payers, w
domestic commercial traffic in infrastructure for effective implementation of levies operate effectively.
excisable goods, to ensure that  on property of tax debtors, and accelerating tax  In  order  to  further  streamline  tax
the excise tax on domestic  arrears rescheduling efforts; (v) introducing the  administration, Government Directive No. 969-
alcohol and alcohol products invoice system for VAT collection and making the  r of July 17, 1998 has made the Federal Agency
is payable at the time of   transition to collection of VAT, profit taxes and  for Foreign Currency and Export Control and
shipment, and to improve the  excises based on the accrual method; and (vi) the Tax Police subordinate to the Minister
excise    stamp    program  inventorying all off-budget accounts of budgetary  Head of the STS.
(Government Resolution No.  organizations.
297 of March 14, 1997,
submission of the draft Tax
Code to the Duma on April
30,   1997,   and   various
Customs Committee orders).



Annex E (continued)
Page 28 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                        of SAL3
Il. Expenditure Management and Policy
To improve
control over and
efficiency of
public
expenditure.
a) Maximiize    The Government submitted to  In an effort to establish an instrument for the regular  The Government's Economnic Stabilization and
transparency    the State Duma, on April 30, and accurate monitoring and assessment of tax   Finance Program is being implemented and the
and minimiize    1997,  a   law   proposing  expenditures, an amendment was made to the draft  1999 federal budget is being prepared in
disruptions     expenditure ceilings for 1997  Budget Code in September 1997 for consideration by  accordance with the parameters set forth in the
through ad-hoc  which are consistent with the  the State Durna in the second reading, so as to make  Presidential Address of July 17, 1998.
seq'uestration.  program.  This  level   of the evaluation of actual Govermment tax expenditures
expenditure will be sufficient a mandatory component of the annual budget
to provide for the basic needs  execution reports at all levels of Government.
w'nl    the Fed same iorne   As of September 30, 1997, the Government has kept
whie .  at these    time    its cash budget expenditures in line with its
ensuring ta tewrewibn       sequestration budget proposed to the Duma in late
i reef e.  April and the cash deficit remnained under control.
b) Control      The Government confirmed in  As of October 31, 1997, all federal pension arrears  For 1998, the Ministry of Finance is developing
spending        early  May    1997  that  a  and all federal wage arrears have been repaid by the  a procedure to strengthen Treasury control over
commitmnents    mechanism was launched for   Government.                                     payments to  energy  suppliers by budget
and eliminate   the Treasury to issue directly  The Ministry of F.nce began an .e  n of the  organizations and government agencies so as to
budget arrears  paymnent orders for wages of The and stru       of federal andassessmears to  prevent the unauthorized reallocation of budget
through         the Ministry of Defense.       leve   as     of  federal budget   arrearseto funds to other categories of expenditures and
enhnce                                      suppliers as of June 30, 1997. The Governmnentheprdcbugtaersoengyrvir.
enhanced         On May 12, 1997, Presidential  adopted a decision to instruct the Ministry of Finance  helP reduce budget arrears t   provides.
monitoring and   Dere     N.    47    (O      n    okmttt       eeo      ttsia    omtfrAt the same time, 1998 budget allocations will
the             Decree    No.   467   ("On   and Goskomstat to develop a statistical format for  provide sufficient funding for financing energy
establishment of  Terminating the Practice of monthly reporting by budgetary organization on the  consumption within agreed limits. (Ref.: GOR
aeTreasury      Issuing   Guarantees    and  stock of their outstanding arrears to suppliers,  Resolution No. 1129).
Warrants  Covered  by   the  starting in January 1997.
controlled      Federal Budget") was issued                                                  A draft law has been prepared which would
payments         eliminating  the  system  of A  Presidentoal Decree was s1gned and became   amend the Civil Code to allow the Federal
mechanism.L                                  effective on November 7, 1997 to (i) instruct the



Annex E (continued)
Page 29 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                       of SAL3
government   guarantees  on  federal Government to end, as of January 1, 1998,  Treasury to pre-authorize contracts signed by
commercial bank financing of the use of all types of mutual offsets, including cash  budget-funded organizations. In the interim,
budgetary organizations and  offsets, for clearing federal tax and budgetary  Government Resolution No. 441 of May 14,
enterprises.                 arrears; and (ii) recommend to regional Governments  1998 (on implementing the  1998 federal
to end, as of January 1, 1998, the use of arrears offset  budget) establishes a mechanism for enhanced
arrangements at the regional level.            Treasury  measurement   of   commitments,
Further to Govemment Resolutions #903, 927, 928,  including sanctions for officials who sign
on September 2, 1997, the Government issued    contracts in excess of approved spending
Resolution #1129, amending the framework for   limits.
clearing the existing stock of energy arrears
(budgetary arrears to energy suppliers and suppliers'
tax arrears).
The Government will ensure that the accounts
payable of budget organizations to infra-
structure monopolies at no time exceed 30 days
of current sales for sales after July 1, 1998.
c) Switch to                                 The Government has made substantial progress in  In the context of broad reform of the budget
new                                         introducing the computerized treasury system  of  execution system the Government will during
computerized                                 accounting and direct payments. The volume of  1998: (i) develop a system with a single
Treasury system                              payments processed by the federal Treasury has been  Treasury account; (ii) transfer off-budgetary
of accounting.                               steadily increased through 1997 and as of September  accounts of budgetary organizations to the
30, 1997, the Government is processing 31 percent  Treasury; (iii) issue regulations and streamline
of the monthly outlays of the federal budget through  procedures of the Treasury system of budget
this system.                                   execution, including procedures for main
distributors, distributors and end-users of
budgetary funds; (iv) unify the information and
telecommunication systemns of the Treasury;
and (v) serve budgetary organizations, located
in the regions without federal Treasury
branches, by Treasury branches in neighboring
regions. (Ref. Government Resolution #1082).



Annex E (continued)
Page 30 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                      of SAL3
To control cash spending and improve
expenditure management the Government has
adopted (Government Directive No. 970-r of
July 17, 1998) a revised timetable to complete
moving the operations of all federal agencies
into the federal treasury by January 1, 1999.
This includes all budget recipients of the
Ministry of Defense, the operations of all the
earmarked budget funds, (including the Road
Fund and Customs System Development Fund),
and all foreign exchange accounts of the STS
and  State  Customs  Committee. Customs
operations will be transferred to the Federal
Treasury only on January 15, 1999. As of July
16, 1998, only one of nine military districts is
in the Treasury; for the rest, there has been no
budget financing since July 1, 1998.
d) Move                                     The Government's 1998 budget includes the budgets
extrabudgetary                              of the social extrabudgetary funds in parallel with the
funds onto the                              federal budget.
budget and the
treasury system.r
e) Establish                                A  new  draft Budget Code developed by the    The Law on the Budget Code was adopted by
sound legal-                                Government and the State Duma has been passed in the Federal Assembly.
institutional                              its first reading by the State Dumna. Its provisions on
basis for budget                            budget    responsibilities,  comprehensiveness,
and treasury                                unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc.
management                                  provide a solid basis for regularizing the entire
sphere of budget operations and dramatically
improving their transparency and efficiency.



Annex E (continued)
Page 31 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                     of SAL3
f) Rationalize  Presidential Decree No. 305  The Government has undertaken a number of steps to  The Government's Economic Stabilization and
government      "On  Priority  Measures  to  accelerate reforms in the housing sector and to  Finance Program is being implemented and the
spending        Combat    Corruption  and   reduce the fiscal burden associated with housing  1999 federal budget is being prepared in
Reduce Budget Expenditures  subsidies, which are the single largest subsidy item  accordance with the parameters set forth in the
Through Organizing Auctions  remaining in the fiscal system. A Government Presidential Address of July 17, 1998.
to     Procure     Goods,   Commission was established to oversee housing and
Construction  Works,  and   utility reforms, led by the First Deputy Prime
Services for State Needs" was  Minister. The Government has approved a system of
issued on April 8, 1997 to  federal standards in housing policy, which provides
reform  public  procurement  subnational Governments with explicit benchmarks
procedures,       requiring  for reform implementation and budget savings. The
standardized,  competitive,  Commission has worked out a medium term plan for
open, and nondiscriminatory  the  preparation  of Government decisions  to
bidding   procedures,  and  accelerate sector reforms. As a result, average
establishing conflict of interest housing (utility and maintenance) prices charged to
regulations.  The   decree  households have risen by 10 percent in real termns, as                                      00
requires cornpetitive bidding  of the end of September 1997, compared to the end
procedures  for all federal  of 1996.
agencies.                   The Government has submitted to the State Duma a
draft law to reform public procurement procedures
requiring standardized, competitive, open, and
nondiscriminatory bidding procedures which has
passed its first reading.
As of June 30, 1997, all grain and food procurement
using federal budgetary funds is subject to
competitive tendering.
The Government has conducted no less than 10
competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued in excess of
Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.



Annex E (continued)
Page 32 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                      of SAL3
IV. Reform of Extrabudgetary Funds and Earmarked Budget Funds
To improve                                                                                  By July 31, 1998, the Gov't will issue a resolu-
transparency and                                                                            tion mandating annual audits, carried out in line
reduce waste in                                                                             with int'l auditing standards & supervised by
extrabudgetary                                                                              the Min. of Fin., of the Social Insurance Fund,
funds.                                                                                      Medical Insurance Fund & the Road Fund.
A Presidential Decree dtd Jul 4, 1998 prohibits
all federal extrabudgetary funds (with the
exception of the Pension Fund) from borrowing
from any private financial institution. The
Decree as issued gives the Pension Fund scope
for borrowing beyond what is needed to
manage liquidity. The Ministry of Finance has
prepared a draft proposal to limit the Pension
Fund's borrowing to the level on April 1, 1998.
A number of actions are envisaged to restore
the solvency of the Pension Fund. A Gov't.
Resolution has been issued that introduces, as
of August 1, 1998, a temporary 2 percent
earmarked tax surcharge on the personal
incomes to be paid to the Pension Fund. This
same resolution will also expand the base for
the employer contribution. The surcharge will
remain in place and further increases in pension
benefits will be avoided as long as the Pension
Fund remains in deficit or new pension arrears
are being accumulated. In addition, legislation
will be proposed to the Duna in the special
August session, that will expand the base for
both employee and employer payroll tax
contributions, and will shift the burden of the
tax from employers to employees.



Annex E (continued)
Page 33 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
I     Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
V. Interpovernmental Fiscal Relations
To put in place   Government Resolution No.   The Government has decided to undertake a       The Government is introduce amendments
basic elements of  621 issued on May 5, 1997,  comprehensive restructuring of intergovernmental  to the Law on Fiscal Foundations of Local
inter-            requires transfers from  the  fiscal relations and set up a Working Group of its  Self-governance to make it fully consistent
governmental      Federal Equalization Fund to  Government Commission on Economic Reforms to  with the provisions of the Tax and Budget
fiscal            be   made   conditional  on  develop the reform program. The Working Group  Codes         (sections       concerning
relationships that  regions'  compliance  with  has developed a program for restructuring the current intergovernmental fiscal relations).
encourage reform,  newly  established  federal  system of federal budget transfers to regions for  Government Resolution No. 555 specifies
improve tax       guidelines and standards on  1998-99. The   Federal law  "On  Fundamental   co   nt       Ret       ion      s sed
collection,       housing reform. This lays the  Financial Principles Of Local Self-Governance In  conditional budget transfers to regions based
eliminate         basis for the first type of The Russian Federation" adopted on September 25,  on housing and communal services. Average
unfunded          conditional transfers in Russia.  1997  provides  a  new  legal framework  for  cost recovery is now 42 percent.
mandates, and                                 intergovernmental tax revenue sharing.
promotes                                      The Goemets19              ugt     i   eursaA draft concept paper for the reform of fiscal
equitable                                     Te Government's 1998 budget: (i) requires a     federal relations has been  prepared  and
treatment of                                  concentration of federal transfers among the most  discussed in Government, and minutes of a
regions.                                      needy regions; (ii) reflects the recommendations of  Govermment review meeting have been signed.
the Protocol of the Commission on Housing Reform  By July 30, 1998, the Govemment will approve
of July 22, 1997 and makes the level of equalization  a revised  Concept Paper on Sub-National
transfers to regions conditional on compliance with  Fiscal Reform which will, inter alia, provide
federal housing standards; and (iii) introduces a  clear conceptual guidelines for the reform of
separate mechanism for ear-marked federal transfers  sub-national fiscal relations between the federal
to regional Medical Insurance Funds.           and regional levels of government.
An Instruction was issued by the Government
Commission on Housing and Utility Reform in
August, 1997, which specifies rules and procedures
for determining the level of federal transfers to
regions conditional on the extent of compliance with
federal housing standards.



Annex E (continued)
Page 34 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                       of SAL3
By November 30, 1997, the Government of the
Russian Federation issued a resolution authorizing
the Economic Reform Commission to develop, by
January 31, 1998: (i) the concept of reforming the
system of interbudgetary fiscal transfers; and (ii) an
action plan and implementation schedule, starting
from a detailed survey of the reform program
(including consultations with regional bodies of
executive power and the State Duma), and stipulating
its incorporation in the Government's draft budget
for 1999. In accordance with that resolution, the
Government's concept of reforming the system of
interbudgetary  fiscal  relations  includes:  (i)
rationalization of the system used to classify regions
into categories; (ii) changing the criteria determining
the amount of transfers (based on the assessment of
the regional GDP and/or fiscal capacity of the region,
and standards, level and cost of provision of public
services); (iii) introduction of arrangements that
would encourage regions to implement reforms in the
budget sector; (iv) introduction of conditionalities of
transfers  (including  the  implementation  of
satisfactory independent audits of the budget and
ensuring compliance with the federal legislation); (v)
gradual transition to the delivery of federal transfers
exclusively through the Treasury system; and (vi)
introduction of special transfer arrangements for
regions heavily dependent on federal transfers.



Annex E (continued)
Page 35 of 39
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                     of SAL3
VI. Sovereign and Subnational Borrowing
To ensure that    On    May     12,   1997, The draft law regulating subnational borrowing that
public borrowing  comprehensive   legislation  had been submitted by the Govermnent to the State
is monitored and  regulating     subnational  Duma in May 1997 has been passed in its first
held within       government borrowing  was  reading. With its passage and final enactmnent
prudent           submitted to the State Duma.  remaining uncertain as of mid-November, 1997, the
limitations.      This draft legislation included:  Government has submitted to the Office of the
(i) a definition of the types of President a draft Presidential Decree to regulate
securities that can be issued by  subnational  Governments'  external  borrowing
locaVregional  governments through issuance of securities. The draft decree (i)
and extrabudgetary funds; (ii) requires, inter alia, the compliance of borrowing
conditions for issuance  of subnational  governments  with  federal  fiscal
these    securities  (e.g., regulations; and (ii) includes monitorable ceilings on
disclosure  rules,  collateral both the total debt stock and the annual debt service
requirements,  and    debt flow of subnational Governments. Until the relevant                                          oo
ceilings); and (iii) exposure  regulation becomes effective, through either law or                                      S
limits.                     Presidential Decree, the Ministry of Finance will not
register international security issues by subnational
Governments, and any such registration would
require, at a minimum, compliance with the
conditions on subnational borrowing by the regions
of Moscow, Nizhniy Novgorod, and St. Petersburg
outlined in Presidential Decree No. 304 of April 8,
1997. Moreover, the federal Government continues
to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by
subnational entities.



Annex E (continued)
Page 36 of 39
-FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
l     Approval of SAL1                                                                     of SAL3
I. Banking Reform
To improve the                                                                             The CBR    will continue to increase the
soundness,                                                                                 transparency of its own operations and will put
efficiency,                                                                                in place requirements to increase transparency
transparency and                                                                           for  commercial banks.   The  policy  of
competitiveness                                                                            announcing weekly data on external reserves,
of the banking                                                                             begun in June, will be expanded to include the
system                                                                                     announcement of base money. The CBR will
publish summary information on the financial
situation of the 30 largest banks on a monthly
basis and a requirement will be introduced for
banks to provide quarterly disclosures of key
information. The standards for disclosure by
banks holding more than 10 percent of
household deposits in the banking system will
be significantly expanded.
By August 1, 1998, the ten largest banks will
be required to publish quarterly accounts, have
annual accounts prepared and audited by a
reputable, qualified firm, and make the results
public.
a) Facilitate   On the basis of its evaluation  On the basis of plans submitted by problem banks,  The  CBR  continuously  monitors  the
resolution of   of the largest 200 banks and  CBR has decided whether these banks are to be  implementation of the recapitalization and
illiquid or     other available information, recapitalized and rehabilitated, or whether other  rehabilitation plans of the identified problem
insolvent banks.  the CBR has identified those  statutory procedures as per the banking legislation  banks. Should the recapitalization rehabilitation
banks  that have  negative  should be applied, including the withdrawal of bank  fail to achieve its objectives, the CBR will take
capital  or  other  serious  licenses. Of 27 identified problem banks in the top  necessary actions including the withdrawal of
problems. At end-February  200 banks, 10 banks have had their licenses    licenses.
1997 the CBR informed such  withdrawn. A number of banks have had their  New   problem  banks are being identified
banks  that they  will be  licenses restricted.                          through the CBR's on-going on-site inspections
required to prepare plans for                                             and future evaluation of other banks. Those
increasing their capital and for                                         identified problem banks are required to submit
their           operational                                              recapitalization rehabilitation plans. Based on



Annex E (continued)
Page 37 of 39
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board      Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2     Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALI                                                                      of SAL3
rehabilitation, for submission                                             an assessment of those plans, the CBR will
to the CBR on or before April                                              decide whether to place the banks under
30, 1997.                                                                 rehabilitation,  interim  administration,  or
external management or to withdraw their
licenses.
b) Put in place  In March 1997, steps were  Legislation on bankruptcy of financial institutions  The CBR continues to build up the necessary
effective bank  taken to modify the current was submitted to and passed in its first reading by the  institutional capacity to ensure that the new
bankruptcy and  legislation in order to specify  State Duma in June 1997.                  legislation on the bankruptcy of financial
liquidation     the     procedures     for  The G        t  and the CBR took measures to   institutions can be implemented effectively
legislation.    withdrawing bank licenses and  TeGvnetadthCB             tokmsustoonce it is passed by the Duma.
leg . for the  subsequent tirlely  ensure expeditious State Duma deliberation of the
liquidation of the delicensed  law on bankruptcy of lending institutions, and took
institutions.               steps to facilitate passage of this law.
c) Ensure that                              The Government and the CBR took measures to    Draft legislation currently under revision to
any deposit                                 ensure State Dumna deliberation of the law on deposit  make it consistent with the banking sector
guarantee                                   insurance and took steps to facilitate passage of this  competition strategy being developed by the
scheme that is                              law. Any   deposit insurance  schemes that is  CBR.
adopted has                                 implemented will be funded only by premiums of
prudent                                     participating banks and the associated investment
coverage of                                 income, with no use of CBR     or government
financial                                   resources.
institutions and
deposits and is
self-financing.
d) Strengthen   On-site inspections of 53 of On-site inspections of another 15 of the 100 largest  The program  of on-site inspections has
banking         the  largest  banks   were  banks have been completed in the third quarter of  expanded.
supervision     completed by the end of June.  1997. In the first nine months of 1997, 68 bank  During 1998, the CBR will continue to improve
through greater                             inspections were completed.                   the system of prudential regulations to meet -
use of on-site                                                                     the system of        prial egul       ation   al
inspections and                             The CBiR has continued to improve the system of or where appropriate exceed - international
improved                                    prudential regulations established by Instruction 1 of standards.
prudential                                  January 30, 1996, with a view to moving prudential  The CBR has simplified (CBR Directive No.
regulations.                                regulations closer to international standards. During  156-u of February 1, 1998) reserve requirement



Annex E (continued)
Page 38 of 39
-                 --  -         -      FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board     Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2    Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SALl                                                                     of SAL3
procedures through establishment of a single
1997, the CBR has, inter alia: revised procedures for  uniform rate for funds denominated both in
calculating banks' own resources (capital); increased  rubles and in foreign currency, regardless of the
capital adequacy requirements and lowered the tied  temn for which the resources are obtained.
credit ratio; and introduced necessary changes in the  CBR Regulation No. 29-p of May 12, 1998, On
calculation of banks' prudential requirements, with a  Consolidated Reports of Lending Institutions,
view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and  is approved. The CBR set a list of lending
liabilities.                                  institutions to provide consolidated reports,
starting with reports on July 1, 1998 (CBR
Directive No. 260-u of June 6, 1998).
e) Reform                                  The CBR, MinFin, and STS revised the procedure of The finalized chart of accounts has been
accounting                                 making and use of loan provisions, with a view to  applied  by  lending  institutions  in their
requirements                               making the necessary reserves in all cases where  operations as of January 1, 1998.
for banks by                               repayment in full is considered unlikely, including
moving toward                              cases where loans are not currently nonperforrning
international                              but there are reasons to believe that the borrower is
standards.                                 insolvent. In doing so, the CBR, the Ministry of
Finance, and the State Tax Service are not allowing
banks' tax burdens to increase unduly as a result of
the new provisioning rules.
f) Improve      The CBR introduced reverse  The Central Bank has drafted regulations specifying  CBR has taken steps to establish an interbank
functioning of  repo operations to allow for a  the procedures for conducting transactions for giving  repo market for a wide number of banks both in
money markets   temporary reduction in the  Lombard credits and same-day settlement loans  Moscow and in the regions.
by putting in   volume of liquidity in the  collateralized with government securities based on  CBR Executive Order No. OD-267 of June 5,
place new       banking system.            preliniinary deposits of securities by banks on special  1998, On Making Operations to Refinance
monetary                                   DEPO bank subaccounts. The Central Bank will  Banks by the Bank of Russia made effective
instruments and                            approve the above regulations so as to provide for  Resolution No. 19-p of March 6, 1998, On the
developing                                 their implementation.                         Procedure of Providing Credits by the Bank of
open market                                The CBR put in place an arrangement to allow  Russia  to   Banks,   Collateralized  with
operations to                              primary dealers to take short positions in governent  Government Securities, and expanded it to
give banks the                             securities, and it will also repeal the prohibition on  banks of Moscow region.
liquidity                                  the use by all banks of government securities as



Annex E (continued)
Page 39 of 39
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Taken For Board       Actions Taken For Board Approval of SAL2      Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
Approval of SAL1                                                                        of SAL3
management                                   collateral, and will ensure that mechanisms are in
tools available                              place to pledge collateral for same-day transactions.
in other
developed
banking
systems.
g) Improve      On February 28, 1997, the    In June and July 1997, the CBR issued normative  The CBR has introduced (CBR Directives No.
payment system   CBR   introduced  a  multi-  concepts for the Real-Time   Gross Settlement  18-p of February 20, 1998 and No. 191-u of
by introducing a  window system for processing  (RTGS) system  and for the development of the  March 24, 1998) the technology of settlements
real-time gross  commercial banks' payments  settlements system.                             without paper documents between the credit
settlement      in Moscow    region, making                                                  institutions in Moscow.
system and      payments    from     banks'                                                  The CBR has developed and approved the
providing        accounts irrevocable once a                                                 TeCRhsdvlpdadapoe                      h
prvdn           acout ireoal        one.                                                     normnative framework to ensure the fuinctiomng
incentives for  payment order is submitted to                                                ormtve Rame
banks to use    the  CBR. Following    each                                                  of the RTGS system.
new electronic  window, the CBR provides
settlement      information to banks on their
services.       correspondent       account
balances. A "cut-off' hour for
same-day client payments was
introduced to allow banks to
settle their positions during the
last window by borrowing in
the interbank market or from
the CBR.



87                                Annex F
Page 1 of 3
PPARs for Rehabilitation Loans I & II and SAL I & II
ECA Regional Management Comments
Overall Assessment of the PPARs
ECA management welcomes the opportunity to comment on the PPARs for
Rehabilitation Loans I and II and SALs I and II. We appreciate that some of our earlier comments
related to the CAE have been included in the PPARs for these operations, but nevertheless
consider that the main disagreements remain largely unresolved.
At the heart of the debate are two problems. First, there is the issue of the timescale of
the evaluation. The PPARs for these loans will be distributed in early 2003, some four years after
the closure of SAL II and some six years after the closing of the second rehabilitation loan. If the
PPAR had been issued soon after the closure of SAL II, its arguments might have carried greater
weight. However, from the vantage point of the present day, it is rather difficult to argue that
these operations failed, even if the timescale for the reforms which were supported under these
loans was longer than originally envisaged. It is clear that most of the reforms which were
supported under these operations have now been implemented. In fact, the PPAR recognizes this
implicitly by noting that sustainability of the reforms supported by the SALs is "likely".
Second, we continue to be extremely skeptical that the "altemative paradigm" of large-
scale technical assistance without financial support would have worked. We doubt very much
whether, without the SALs, we could have focused Government attention on the longer-term
reforms which were key to sustained and equitable growth. We recognize that there could have
been stronger up-front conditionality for prior actions, more focus on implementation and more
buy-in from Parliament and other stakeholders. But the PPAR fails to recognize that the package
of SALs was precisely that, a package underpinning a longer-term programmatic view, which
makes it inappropriate to judge each one of the SALs solely on its own merits and its short-term
actions or outcomes. The PPAR acknowledges, as have we consistently in ICRs and in our
comments on the CAE, that SAL I and SAL II were part of a series of three SALs. We do not,
therefore understand why SAL HI was not included in the evaluation.
Seen in their entirety, we would argue that the SAL program was successful in:
(a) introducing and maintaining a strong focus on a broad-gauged systemic structural
reform process. Prior to (and without the SALs) there was inadequate attention to the
structural and social reform agenda; the SALs also made clear to the Authorities that
we were a steady and supportive partner through difficult times;
(b) setting up a broad-gauged systemic reform agenda, and instilling in our counterparts
the notion that such an agenda was indeed necessary. This eventually led to the
current government's own program which, in approach, content and design, is clearly
consistent with the "road map" which SAL 1 laid out and which was consistently
supported by the Bank during the subsequent years;
(c) maintaining steady reform progress, albeit slow at times, throughout the 1996-99
period, and preventing major reversals, especially after the 1998 crisis;
(d) preparing the ground for and beginning to put in place many important changes in
the legal and regulatory environment, a tedious process that does not lead to
immediate results, since implementation is ultimately what matters, but without
which no real reform is really conceivable.



Annex F (continued)                    88
Page 2 of 3
Specific Issues
Both Russia's political economy and the fiscal structures at the time were such that it was
critical to have a broad and comprehensive reform program. This broad approach helped bring
counterparts together on the Russian side and was an essential vehicle for considering and
deciding on complementarities and tradeoffs among different reform areas, and their sequencing
and phasing. Partial approaches were doomed both because of their vulnerability to vested
interests, and because of the side effects on the fiscal side (plugging one hole would only
intensify the fiscal problems in other areas). Arguably, the coal SECALs would not have worked
without complementary fiscal action. There is no evidence to support the argument that
smaller/narrower operations or TA would have worked better.
The discussion of Rehabs I and II in the OED PPAR is generally accurate and clearly
acknowledges the limited nature and objectives, as well as the achievements, of these strictly
transitional instruments. Given this, we noted with surprise that the PPAR has downgraded the
ratings for Rehabs I and II from Satisfactory (ICR and OED EVM/ES) to Moderately
Satisfactory in the case of Rehab. I and to Moderately Unsatisfactory in the case of Rehab. II.
The PPAR asserts that the Rehab. loans failed to address satisfactorily the underlying fiscal
problems at the root of Russia's macroeconomic instability. Maybe so, but that was never their
objective. The Rehab. Loans were: (a) not macroeconomic adjustment operations; and (b) had
strictly limited policy objectives (very modest for Rehab. I and somewhat more ambitious for
Rehab. II, with all the policy actions completed before Board approval). The Executive Directors
were fully informed about the limited nature of the Rehab. loans, the appraisal documents were
equally transparent, and in truth, the division of labor between the Bank and the Fund in place at
that time did not envision a role for the Bank in macroeconomic dialogue on fiscal and monetary
issues (see also final paragraph). The PPAR has therefore imputed objectives for the Rehab.
loans that were never envisioned at the time.
Regarding the SALs, the PPAR makes only a half-hearted attempt to analyze the
counterfactual; i.e. what would have happened in their absence? As noted above, the reforms
supported by the SALs have in the main been implemented and sustained.
Single-tranche operations were clearly appropriate for the first SAL-simply because it
ensured that actions were completed by Board and there was some immediate impact, which was
essential both for risk mitigation, and for funding continuity. In all likelihood, with multi-tranche
operations, there would either have been multiple waivers or the operations would have stalled.
We disagree with the judgment that "The SALs' assumption about the speed with which
the reforms could proceed and achieve its stated objectives was unrealistic and raised
expectations that were sure to be disappointed. The Bank assumed reforms in all the chosen
areas could move from (a) design to (b) embodiment in relevant legislation or directives to (c)
passage by the relevant bodies such as the State Duma to (d) administrative implementation in a
couple of years. SAL I supported design and preparation of measures within six months that
would take years even in OECD countries." It is incorrect that the Bank assumed completion of
all reforms within two years-as is clear from the President's Reports. The fact that the Bank's
loan documentation sketches out a process for moving through the steps is a good thing, not a
bad thing. The comparison with OECD countries is inappropriate, as reforming transition
economies naturally have undertaken and do undertake major systemic reforms faster than stable
OECD countries-it is simply in the nature of transition. If there is any doubt about this, the



8'3                      Annex F (continued)
Page 3 of 3
record of the Russian Govemment since 2000 demonstrates a momentum for passage of
legislation which would certainly have taxed most OECD govemments.'
We disagree with the statement that "the Bank did not adequately assess during the
preparation of SAL I the likelihood for delays in the adoption of the agreed measures and
subsequent, expected follow-up actions. In light of prior experience in Russia with very brief
windows of opportunity and with stop-go implementation of agreed reforms, the Bank should
have been more cautious in the SALs timing and design. A SAL should have been approved only
at a more advanced stage of preparation (and with substantial ESW backing it up), and preferably
after concrete signs of broad commitment to implementation (as was the case for the Coal
SECALs)." The preparation of SAL I took one year-there was a lot of intensive analytic work,
including much sector-specific work, and a lot of discussions. The comparison with the Coal
SECALS is emblematic of the misunderstanding of the process demonstrated in the PPAR. As
we had previously noted in the discussion of the CAE, Coal SECAL I was approved and
implemented without any certainty of Govemment "ownership" of the reforms.
The timing for SAL I-beginning after the first significant period free from volatile
and/or high inflation-was appropriate. There was a window of opportunity, and it would have
been inappropriate if the Bank had risked policy-based lending to Russia in support of structural
reforms. The fact that some of the risks materialized does not mean that the timing or strategy
were wrong.
SAL II was not rushed in its preparation, as the PPAR states. It was under preparation
even as SAL I was going to the Board-since a series of SALs had been envisioned from the
outset. Although it is true that the SAL II Board presentation was accelerated, the lion's share of
the work had already been done. It was prudent to split SAL H into two tranches, and to resist
the pressure for a one tranche SAL which existed at the time.
The PPAR states that "Given the economic and political conditions in mid-1997, the
Bank should have only offered the govemment analytical and advisory services and technical
assistance." We believe that the high quality analysis which supported SALs I and II (especially
on the Russian side, but also by the Bank), was critical as a basis for some of the later reforms.
This work helped create and consolidate ownership, and without it, there would be much less
ownership of the reform program today. At the time, there was a large group of strong reform
champions as well as a significant group of less reform-minded counterparts-the classical
situation where it is the Bank's responsibility to work with and strengthen the proponents of
reform.
Finally, it is inappropriate for the PPAR to suggest that "SAL I contributed to further
appreciation of the real exchange rate in early 1998" absent a serious discussion in the PPAR of
the consequences of the fiscal and exchange rate policies supported by the IMF during this
period. This is perhaps not the place to argue the merits or otherwise of these policies, although
many observers have noted that the over-valued exchange rate prior to the crash of August, 1998
directly encouraged capital flight and corruption and hindered import substitution. However, the
coincidence between the devaluation (which did not produce high inflation) and the resumption
of growth, is difficult to ignore. The policies supported by SALs I-II have certainly helped to
produce the sustained growth which has followed the 1998 crash and continues to this day.
The reference to OECD countries has been removed.






91                                Annex G
Page 1 of 2
OED Response to Management Comments
OED believes that no change in the PPAR ratings is warranted, since the Region's
arguments were already considered at the time of the drafting and reviewing of OED's Country
Assistance Evaluation (CAE), as well as during OED's review of the Implementation Completion
Report for SALs I and II. Moreover, these arguments have already been addressed in the body of
this PPAR.
The Region argues that the entire SAL program (SALs I, II, and IEI) ought to be seen as a
success, but their own evaluation of SAL Im (Implementation Completion Report, No. 22172,
2001) concluded in paragraph 4.1 that: "The outcome of the project in terms of the achievement
of its objectives is assessed as unsatisfactory [bolded in the original text]. This assess,ment
arises from both the perspective of the implementation of specific structural reforms in the
program as well as the broader objectives of medium-term macroeconomic stabilization and
growth to which these reforms were expected to contribute. While Russia has seen improved
macroeconomic performance over 2000-01, this was generated by the large forced devaluation in
1998-which induced efficient import-substitution and some non-oil export growth-and the
dramatic improvement in the terms of trade. The systemic changes in policies and institutions
that have occurred during this period (principally in the fiscal and non-payments areas) are too
recent to have yet had a discernible impact on the economy, and too limited in scope to establish
a firm basis for future growth." This assessment was endorsed by OED in mid-2001, during its
review of the ICR. In the subsequent CAE, OED acknowledged the pace of reform since mid-
2001 and the achievements of SAL Im beyond its September 2000 closing date. But OED has not
changed its assessment of the preceding loans.
In response to some specific comments:
With regard to the comment that there is no evidence to support the argument that
smaller/narrower operations or TA would have worked better, the CAE (p. 31) lists numerous
examples of good results achieved since 1998 through smaller, narrower operations, including
technical assistance, but arguably better economic management and the resumption of the overall
reform program were critical to these successes. OED's argument in para. 4.9 of the PPAR,
however, is not that smaller/narrower operations or TA would have worked better in the non-
conducive policy and institutional environment of 1997-98, but that they were a better choice, as
they would have allowed the Bank to remain engaged in its advisory role while limiting its
financial exposure and Russia's debt obligations.
The ECA Region argues that it was never the objective of the Rehabilitation loans to
address the underlying fiscal problems at the root of Russia's macroeconomic instability. OED
notes that both Rehabilitation loans did in fact have macroeconomnic stabilization as an explicit
objective. The RL I President's Report (No. P3854, 1992) devotes many passages to the Bank's
strategy of assisting the government's stabilization program and explicitly states that this loan
"would ... finance imports in support of Russia's program of stabilization and economic reform"
(see, for example, summary project description, and paragraphs 1, 161, and 163). The RL II
P;esident's Report (No. P6621, 1995) contains similar passages (e.g., paragraph 52: "The Second
Rehabilitation Loan would provide $600 million equivalent in support of the following
objectives: (i) support the Government's program for macroeconomic stabilization during 1995;
and (ii) support an agreed program of structural reforms including ...").
As to the assertion that it is incorrect that the Bank assumed completion of all reforms
within two years, the Bank was clearly counting on the passage within months of all necessary
laws, although this was not part of the loan conditionality. The President's Reports for both



Annex G (continued)                    92
Page 2 of 2
operations emphasized a medium-term horizon for the reform agenda, but not a long-term
implementation challenge. According to the SAL II President's Report (p. 35, para. 123), SALs I
and II were designed "to support an on-going phase of reforms that at this stage can be seen
lasting at least until the end of 1998" and to "provide a framework for timely completion of
reform measures (in the form of prior actions) and a vehicle for effective implementation
requiring the completion of a work program of critical intermediate steps supported through
technical assistance." Furthermore, the "deepening" of the reform program in all key areas was
envisaged by the Bank "over the next two years," e.g., 1998-99 (para. 117 of SAL II President's
Report).
The Region comments that Coal SECAL I was approved and implemented without any
certainty of Govemment "ownership" of the reforms. However, OED notes that the Govemment
had already issued a pivotal document about the coal sector reform program following broad
consultations and preceding approval of the Bank's loan. Moreover, it had actually began
implementing such programs before the Bank approved its first coal loan.
Finally, in response to the comment about whether SAL II contributed to further
appreciation of the real exchange rate, the IMF has also re-assessed the macroeconomic rationale
for the large balance-of-payments support provided since the end of 1997 to stave off exchange
rate pressures due to the intemational financial crisis and loss of confidence in Russia's
economic management. In the words of the IMF chief economist, Kenneth Rogoff, "in Russia in
1998, ... the official community threw money behind a fixed exchange-rate regime that was
patently doomed. Eventually, the Fund cut the cord and allowed a default, .... But if the Fund
had allowed the default to take place at an earlier stage, Russia might well have come out of its
subsequent downturn at least as quickly and with less official debt."' The Bank came to this
realization late, but nonetheless ahead of the Fund. OED discussed this issue at more length in
the Russia CAE (p. 30), offering a positive assessment of the Bank's stance in the spring of 1998
(early staff warnings to the IMF; reluctance to underwrite the emergency financial package;
minimization of its financial participation in the mid-1998 intemational emergency financial
package; backloading of disbursements of SAL m; and stronger conditionalities).
"The IMF Strikes Bank." Foreign Policy, Jan./Feb. 2003, p.41.



