Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7200-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$800 MILLION
TO
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
November 28, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
(as of November 25, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Ruble (Rbl)
US$1    =    Rbl 5921.0
MICEX Exchange Rates
Ruble per US$1
Period Average        End of Period
1993                 1,018                 1,247
1994                 2,212                3,550
1995                 4,566                4,640
1996                 5,129                5,554
Weights And Measures
Metric System
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Michael F. Carter, ECCRU
Project Team: Harry G. Broadmnan (Program Team Leader), ECSPE; Robert E. Anderson, ECSPF; Igor
Artemiev, PSDEN; Subash Chandra, LOAEL; Vladimir Drebentsov, ECCRU; Lev M.
Freinkman, ECSPE; Jane E. Holt, ECCRU; Alexander Morozov, ECCRU; Friedrich
Peloschek, LEGEC; Elena Shtykanova, ECCRU; Gary Stuggins, ECSEG; Natasha
Veligura, ECCRU; Peggy Wilson, ECSEG; and Ulrich Zachau, MDOPS.
Other Contributors: Andrei Darusenkov, ECCRU; Qimiao Fan, ECSPE; Victor Gabor, ECSPE; Mari Kuraishi,
ECCAI; Brian Pinto, ECSPE; Khaled Sherif, ECSPF; Vadim Voronin, ECCRU; Olga
Stchesnovich, ECCRU; Ruben Makhmurian, ECCRU; Boris Rubenstein, ECCRU; Sandra
Craig, ECSPE; Jimn Lynch, ECSPE; and Michelle Mancesidor, ECSPE.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADR - American Depository Receipt
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
CBR - Central Bank of Russia
CIS - Commonwealth of Independent States
EBF - Extrabudgetary Fund
EDI - Economic Development Institute
EFF - Extended Fund Facility
FEC - Federal Energy Commission
FSRNMC   -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Communications
FSRNMT  -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Transportation
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
GKI - State Committee for the Management of State Property
GKO - Treasury Bill
GOR - Government of Russia
GW   -  Gigawatt
IAS - International Accounting Standards
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IMF - International Monetary Fund
IPO - Initial Public Offering
LDC - Local Distribution Company
LIBOR - London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MICEX - Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange
MIGA - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE - Ministry of Economy
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOP - Memorandum of the President
NIS - Newly Independent States
RAO EES  -  Joint Stock Company- Electrification and Electricity Supply
RFCSCM - Russian Federal Commission on Securities and the Capital Market
RTGS - Real-Time Gross Settlement
SAL - Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL - Sector Adjustment Loan
STS - State Tax Service
TA   -  Technical Assistance
VAT - Value Added Tax
VChK - Emergency Tax Commission
WTO - World Trade Organization
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
..






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                 Russian Federation
Amount:                   US$800 million, in two tranches of US$400 million each
Terms:                    Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace at the standard
LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:           0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed SAL2 would assist the Government to undertake the
structural reforms necessary to lay the foundation for renewed economic
growth and to maintain macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-
term. It would also provide the financing necessary to provide an
adequate level of public services during the difficult fiscal transition that
has characterized most former centrally planned economies.
The proposed operation would support economy-wide structural reforms
that (a) advance competitive enterprise and market development and
impose financial discipline on the enterprise sector; and (b) have a major
direct impact on macroeconomic stability. It would focus on fiscal
management reform, private sector development, reform of "natural"
monopolies, banking reforms, and trade policy reform.
Benefits:                 The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to proceed
with key structural reforms to sustain macroeconomic stability and
stimulate renewed growth. The substantial amounts of low-cost, non-
inflationary budget financing provided by SAL2 would confer large
financial savings as well as large economic benefits. The reforms
supported would increase efficiency across a range of sectors by helping
create a more competitive and open private sector-oriented economy.
Risks:                    There are substantial political, institutional, and economic risks
associated with this operation, as with other operations in the Bank's
Russia portfolio. These risks have been carefully addressed during
project preparation but remain high. The risk of macroeconomic
instability has been addressed through the operation's strong fiscal
management measures, the resources it will provide to the economy,
incorporating two tranches and through coordinating closely with the
IMF's ongoing EFF program. The risk of erratic commitment to
reforms has been addressed by designing SAL2 based on strong prior



actions. The risk of inadequate implementation of the reforms will be
addressed through intensive supervision.
Schedule of Disbursement:   Two tranche disbursement, the first immediately after loan effectiveness
(expected in December 1997); the second when a fully satisfactory
macroeconomic framework is in place (expected in January/February
1998).
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Poverty Category:            Not Applicable
Project ID Number:           RU-PE-50491
Map:                         IBRD No. 27188R
The World Bank project team wishes to thank the Russian authorities, and in particular their counterparts in the
Presidential and Government Administrations, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Fuels and
Energy, Ministry of State Property, and the Central Bank, for their collaboration in preparing the proposed SAL2.
The loan and this Report build on the authorities' own work as outlined in the Government's "Medium-Term
Program for 1997-2000: Restructuring and Economic Growth." The project team would like to thank their
colleagues in the International Monetary Fund's Russia team for their collaboration. The project team would also
like to express its gratitude to the Peer Reviewers of this operation, Messrs. Alan Gelb, AFRVP and John Nellis,
PSDEN, as well as to Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE; David Pearce, ECCAI; and Marcelo Selowsky, ECA VP for their
overall guidance and support. Loan preparation work has been partly funded by a grant from the PHRD Fund of
the Government of Japan.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Table of Contents
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT ..........................................................I
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM ...........................................4
A) General Objectives ..........................................................4
B) Reform of "Natural" Monopolies ............................5
C) Private Sector Development .........................                                                                  13
D) Fiscal Management .........................                                                                          20
E) Banking Sector Reform .........................                                                                       26
F) Trade Policy Reform .........................                                                                        29
PART III. PROGRESS UNDER THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN ................. 31
PART IV. THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN .............................. 33
A) Rationale and Objectives ..............................................................                              33
B) Benefits and Risks ..............................................................                                    35
C) Coordination with the IMF ..............................................................                             37
D) Board Conditions, Tranch Triggers and Supervision .............................................................. 37
E) Implementation and Technical Assistance ..............................................................               40
F) Financial Arrangements ..............................................................                                40
G) Poverty Implications ..............................................................                                  41
H) Environmental Impact ..............................................................                                  41
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION ..............................................................                                             42



ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1        Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: External Financing
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Attachment 2        Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Attachment 3        Timetable of Key Processing Events
Attachment 4        Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 5        Policy Reforms Program Matrix
BOXES
Box 1               SAL2 Prior Actions for Board Circulation
MAP
IBRD No.           27188R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL2)
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed second
structural adjustment loan (SAL2) to the Russian Federation for US$800 million to support the
Government's structural reform program.' The loan would be at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based
interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans, with a maturity of seventeen years, including five years
of grace.
2.    This report should be read in conjunction with the "Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the
World Bank Group for the Russian Federation" (Report No. 16549-RU, dated May 6, 1997). The CAS,
which was approved by the Board in May 1997, describes the country and economic context in detail,
along with the proposed Bank Group program for FY 98/99 (including IFC, MIGA, and EDI). It also
discusses experience to date with the portfolio, risks, creditworthiness considerations, and cooperation
with other international agencies.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT2
3.    Since 1992 the Russian economy has been undergoing a massive transformation to a market
system. Like other countries in transition, Russia's economic reform has had many setbacks but also
many triumphs.  Much of 1992-1996 was marked by rapid inflation, shrinking output, rising
unemployment and social hardship. Average annual inflation was high for most of this period, reaching
a peak above 1300 percent during 1992, and falling below 100 percent only in 1996. By 1996 measured
GDP had fallen by 40 percent in real terms since 1991, and it fell by 6 percent in 1996. Although
unemployment did not increase as rapidly as the decline in GDP--owing to flexibility in wages, hours of
work and access to secondary employment in the informal sector--there was a dramatic increase in
poverty (indeed, despite some recent improvements, according to survey data, 25-35 percent of the
population are still living in poverty). The principal macroeconomic achievement in 1996 was in
bringing about financial stabilization. The stabilization remained fragile, however, because of difficulties
in the area of fiscal policy. Plummeting tax revenues led the Government to implement a series of
measures to improve collections, yet these measures proved only partially successfuil as fundamental
changes were needed in both the taxpaying culture and in the institutions charged with tax collection. It
became increasingly apparent that greater fiscal consolidation is essential to further reduce inflationary
expectations, encourage households and investors to move out of hard currency and ruble cash holdings,
and help expand credits to the private sector. Overall, the poor economic performance in 1992-96 was
engendered, in part, by the inertia of the decades-old central planning regime. It can also be traced to
The first structural adjustment loan (SAL 1), Loan Number 4180 RU, was approved by the Board on June 5,
1997. SAL1 became effective on June 17, 1997 and was fully disbursed on June 18, 1997.
2   Due to differences in the definitions and methodology underlying the macroeconomic statistics of the Russian
Federation and the World Bank, the specific macroeconomic data, estimates, and projections in this Report of
the President and the CAS may differ from those in the Government's Letter of Development Policy which is
attached.



2
difficulties in policy-making, which often focused on short-term initiatives and driven by intense
competition among frequently changing political factions.
4.    Against the backdrop of elections in the summer of 1996, when the Russian people broadly
endorsed continued progress toward a market economy under the leadership of President Yeltsin, the last
twelve months have been a period of gradual political and economic stabilization for Russia, setting the
stage for a resumption of economic growth. On the macroeconomic front, significant if uneven progress
has been broadly made towards the objectives stipulated under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
arrangement with the IMF. At the same time, structural reforms supported by the EFF and the Bank's
first structural adjustment loan (SAL1) have made considerable headway, wherein today more than 70
percent of Russia's GDP is produced in the private sector. The result has been that throughout 1997
many macroeconomic indicators have shown improved performance. By October 1997, inflation stood
at 0.2 percent, bringing the 12-month increase in the price level to 12.9 percent. There are also increasing
signs of economic recovery, with small growth (about 1/4 percent) in real GDP from January to October
1997. The ruble has remained relatively stable. Foreign trade has been strong in 1997 (as it has been in
the past few years); the current account balance is likely to be in surplus of about 1/2 percent of GDP in
1997, with exports (dominated by energy resources and other raw materials) outpacing imports by $20
billion. The foreign trade regime has remained quite liberal: average statutory import tariffs are below
15 percent. The Government hopes to complete accession to the WTO in 1998, which would help to
preserve this regime.
5.    Monetary policy in 1997 has been directed at keeping downward pressure on inflation. Tight
domestic credit policies have contributed to a build-up in net and gross international reserves and have
maintained the exchange rate within the stronger part of its band. More recently, Russian financial
markets have been affected by the turmoil in international markets. To stabilize financial markets, the
Central Bank of Russia (CBR) increased official interest rates on November 10, 1997. In addition, to
provide guidance to market expectations over a longer horizon, the CBR announced that a band exchange
rate regime will apply for the next three years. While the overall band will be wider than in the past to
permit greater flexibility on the part of the CBR, a narrower daily band for operational purposes will
remain.
6.    Despite good achievements on the inflation and balance of payments fronts, the already-fragile
fiscal stabilization weakened further by the third quarter of 1997. For the January-September period,
government cash revenue amounted to Rub 174 trillion, compared with the EFF program target of Rub
191 trillion. An important objective in 1997 has been to put government finances on a solid footing, with
the goal of limiting the federal cash budget deficit to around 512 percent of GDP (for the first nine
months of 1997 the federal cash deficit was broadly consistent with this target). Indeed, by squeezing
cash spending through draconian sequestration of expenditures, the Government managed to limit the
cash deficit in January-September to Rub 131 trillion, below the EFF program ceiling of Rub 146
trillion--but at the cost of engendering large arrears, further undermining payment discipline in the
economy.
Resumption of Growth: The Need for Further Macro and Structural Reforms
7.    Sustained macro-stabilization and the realization of dynamic private-sector led growth-the key
to raising general living standards and easing social tensions in Russia-will depend on further fiscal
consolidation and the acceleration and deepening of fundamental structural reforms.



3
8.    Macro-Fiscal Reforms. It is clear that the need for decisive fiscal reform to redress macro-
fiscal imbalances is urgent. Toward this end, the Government has been taking important steps towards
an overhaul of the tax system, with the aim of removing remaining serious distortions in the overall tax
structure and dramatically improving the efficiency of tax administration.  In April 1997, the
Government tabled in the Duma a draft Tax Code, which passed its first reading and was expected to be
approved by the end of 1997. However, the Duma recently decided to send the Code back for a new first
reading, thus delaying possible adoption well into the New Year. In November 1997, the Government
announced an ambitious Action Plan to Increase Collection of Taxes and Reduce Federal Budget
Expenditures. Major steps that will be taken under this action plan include: (i) the termination of
noncash arrangements ("offsets") for clearing tax and spending arrears, which will become effective on
January 1, 1998, as stipulated in a November 7, 1997 Presidential Decree; (ii) the establishment of firm
expenditure control through the consolidation of all federal spending under the Treasury, supported by
sanctions against officials of institutions receiving budgetary resources for undertaking expenditure
liabilities not covered by budgetary funding, improved reporting of expenditure arrears, and other
expenditure control mechanisms; (iii) the development and implementation of a realistic spending plan to
underpin the 1998 budget, including spending norms for such items as electricity and heating; (iv) strong
measures to improve tax collection, including taking actions against large high-profile tax debtors and
enterprises that do not carry out the decisions of the Emergency Tax Commission (VChK), creating the
infrastructure for effective implementation of levies on property of tax debtors, and accelerating tax
arrears rescheduling efforts; (v) introducing the invoice system for VAT collection and making the
transition to collection of VAT, profit taxes and excises based on the accrual method; and
(vi) inventorying all off-budget accounts of budgetary organizations.
9.     Structural Reforms. The resumption of growth in Russia will also depend on further progress
in developing and strengthening the institutions and legal/regulatory processes that are the fundamental
building blocks for the operation of a market system, including reforms in the social sphere, agriculture
and housing. Growth will be propelled by structural reforms that: (i) enhance fiscal management; (ii)
encourage competition and improve the efficiency of the country's monopolistic infrastructure sectors;
(iii) develop the private sector; (iv) reform the banking sector, and (v) foster international trade and
investment. Greater fiscal discipline--through, among other measures, strengthened budget management
processes and inter-governmental reforms that both correct mismatches between expenditure
responsibilities and revenue assignments, as well as encourage fiscal responsibility and the
implementation of key fiscal reforms by sub-national governments--will help the process of
consolidation. Reforms in housing and agriculture, which, taken together receive up to 6 percent of GDP
in annual subsidies, will also have a strong impact on overall fiscal performance. Reform of so-called
"natural" monopolies--especially electric power, natural gas and railways--will have large positive
spillovers throughout the economy and thus make a crucial contribution to renewed productivity. The
realization of dynamic private sector growth-through efficiency gains from privatization, competition,
restructuring and new investment-will depend mainly on improvements in the overall business
environment. Steps in that direction include a more transparent and predictable regulatory regime,
including stronger contract and property rights enforcement; easier market entry for new businesses and
removing barriers to exit for non-viable enterprises; and the elimination of distortions in the tax system.
Banking sector reforms-including dealing with illiquid and insolvent banks (including a law on bank
bankruptcy and liquidation and a prudent deposit protection system), improving bank accounting and
supervision, and payment systems reform-will be essential to facilitate the financial deepening that is
needed both for the consolidation of stabilization on the monetary and credit side and for effective
financial intermediation as a basis for investment and growth. Expanded international trade and
investment will enhance growth not only through increased competition, but also through the transfer of
new technologies and managerial/entrepreneurial skills.



4
CAS Medium-Term Scenario
10.   The main medium-term scenario in the 1998-99 CAS assumes "good policies," that is, financial
stabilization and Russia's integration with world capital markets are expected to continue. Over the next
three years, a combination of revenue increases and spending controls and cuts is forecast to reduce the
budget deficit by more than half, to less than 3 percent of GDP. On this basis, inflation is projected to
continue falling (to around 6 percent a year after 1999), and the ruble is expected to continue
appreciating in real terms but at a slower rate. The resulting restoration of confidence in the economy is
expected to lead to an expansion of foreign investment, an eventual reversal of net capital outflows, a
reduction in real interest rates (to roughly 6 percent by the year 2000), and progressive financial
deepening (i.e., growth of banking sector assets as a share of GDP, which stood around only 25-30
percent in late 1996). All this will serve to support a gradual recovery of output as Russia copes with the
ongoing challenges of deepening market reforms and industrial restructuring.
11.   In this scenario, after zero year-on-year growth in 1997, output growth is projected to turn
positive in 1998, and a projected trend growth of 6 percent annually thereafter. This would allow a
recovery of output to just below 1991 levels by 2005. The recovery will be driven by a further expansion
in services (trade, telecommunications, banking), export-oriented industries (oil, gas, metallurgy), power,
and later on housing, with a growing positive effect on overall factor productivity. Investment is forecast
to increase substantially, growing at an average annual rate around 9 percent for a few years, although
gross investment as a share of GDP is expected to rise only slightly due to lower than average price
increases for investment goods.
PART II. THIE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A. General Objectives
12.   The Government's medium-term program, submitted to the State Duma on March 6, 1997 ,
notes that the first phase of structural reforms following the collapse of central planning is substantially
completed, and that Russia has become predominantly a market economy. The program emphasizes that
major progress has been made in liberalization of prices; a mass privatization process has been
completed; inflation has been reduced and the ruble stabilized; and trade policy reforms have resulted in
lowered tariffs. Building on these achievements, the Government is continuing to undertake structural
measures to restore growth, which it sees as a prerequisite for reducing poverty and addressing other
social problems.
13.   The Government's medium-term program argues that structural reform must be underpinned by:
a stable macroeconomic environment; increased investment; reallocation of assets and resources
currently tied up in non-productive enterprises; openness to international trade and investment; deep
institutional transformations required to make the market economy operate efficiently; social sector
reforms (such as pension, unemployment insurance, health care and housing); and reform of the
agricultural sector; among other initiatives. Fundamental restructuring of the economy's key sectors is
envisaged to take 10-15 years.
"Medium-Term Reform Program for 1997-2000: Restructuring and Economic Growth"



5
14.   Although the medium-term  program  describes a multiplicity of structural measures, the
immediate priority-which would be supported under the proposed SAL2, building on the initiatives
supported under SALI-is to focus on a set of cross-cutting reforms that are key features of the
Government's medium-term program that will contribute most directly to the resumption of growth and
the maintenance of macroeconomic stability. These will require action in the following areas:
* Reform of "Natural" Monopolies
* Private Sector Development
* Fiscal Management
* Banking Reform
* Trade Policy Reform
Key elements of the program in these areas are discussed below.
B. Reform of "Natural" Monopolies
15.   Context. Price reforms and the competitive restructuring of natural monopoly services in the
electricity, gas, and railways sectors will have very substantial efficiency gains with large, positive,
economy-wide spillovers and will be critically important for medium-term growth. Natural monopoly
reforms need to focus on four areas: (a) pricing should better reflect cost and demand conditions; (b) arrears
should be reduced and payment discipline strengthened (especially in the energy sector); (c) arms-length
regulatory oversight, where appropriate, should be enhanced; and (d) sectors should be demonopolized, i.e.,
policy barriers to new entry should be reduced so as to allow for the competitive provision of services
where monopoly is not "naturar' and, possibly, establishing a market by restructuring existing entities. The
Government has implemented "on-the-ground" reform steps in all four areas. Substantial pricing
reforms have taken place in all sectors. Strengthening and further development of regulatory agencies
has been undertaken.  Improvements in corporate governance, actions to address arrears, and
development of the agenda for, and in some cases implementation of, restructuring and
demonopolization have been initiated.
16.   Russia's electric power sector has an installed generating capacity of about 210 GW, nearly 60%
more than the peak demand. This condition resulted from the decline in demand of about 36% over the
past six years. The asset base is aging as little new construction has been commissioned over the past ten
years, thus requiring considerable investment in deferred maintenance, life extension and replacement.
Despite the over-capacity situation, supply problems persist in some regions due to the huge buildup of
payment arrears. This problem manifests itself in nonpayment for fuel, taxes and staff by many of the
regional electricity monopolies (Energos).
17.   The power sector is largely controlled by the corporate entity RAO UES Rossii (UES). UES
owns much of the generation system, and all of the transmission and dispatch systems. UES also has a
controlling equity stake in most of the Energos, which are responsible for the distribution of electricity
on a regional basis. The 72 Energos own the smaller generation stations and the distribution networks
within their regions. Regulation has recently been established at both the federal and regional levels. The
4 As articulated in the CAS, other key elements of the Government's medium-term reform program, such as
social protection, coal sector adjustment and agricultural reform, are being addressed under other Bank
operations that complement this SAL.



6
institutional capacity and independence of the FEC has improved considerably in the latter half of 1997,
under the guidance of its new Chairman. However, the regulatory framework at the regional level
remains weak.
18.   In 1992 the Government partially privatized the power sector under its mass privatization
program. UES was established as a holding company for the Energos, with an ownership stake of 51%
in the most of them. The remaining 49% is owned by the employees and management of the Energos.
Only a small share of UES was initially privatized in 1992, with the Government gradually divesting its
ownership stake to the present level of 52 percent. Until the recent past, the Russian stock market had
assigned a low value to all of the Russian power sector entities, relative to similar entities abroad.
Brokers ascribed this low valuation to a lack of confidence in existing management, lack of transparency,
weak regulation and large arrears (less than three quarters of electricity and heat bills were collected in
1996). However, considerable changes have taken place since the new Government announced its
commitment to reforming energy monopolies. The market perception of UES and the power sector
reforms has changed considerably since that time, with UES' share value doubling from April to
September, 1997.
19.   In the aggregate, electricity prices have been set at a level to fully finance operating costs and
100% of new investments. Prior to mid-1997, rates charged to households (where demand is relatively
inelastic) have been kept artificially low at about 25% of the cost of supply, while prices to industry
(where demand is elastic) have been set high in order to cross-subsidize household consumption. This
structure of prices was economically inefficient: the weighted average tariff for industrial users is too
high given the low cost of fuel and low labor costs. Moreover, while this price structure is intended to
achieve equity and reduce poverty, these objectives would be better met through targeted direct transfers
as part of the authorities' overall social programs or, where adequate targeting of transfers is impossible
to implement under present conditions, through instruments such as life-line pricing.
20.   The Government has assigned a high priority to addressing the problems of the power sector.
The goal of the program is to increase the efficiency of the sector's operation by establishing a pattern of
prices reflecting economic costs and relative scarcities (demand and supply over time), improving
regulatory oversight, bringing financial accounts in line with international standards, improving the
quality of service, and enhancing corporate governance, ownership incentives, and operational
restructuring. The reforms also include the establishment of a competitive market for electricity,
complemented by enhancing the effectiveness of the regulatory regime for the segments of the power
market where the competitive provision of service is sub-optimal. The Bank is providing substantial
technical assistance to the Government to help define and implement a comprehensive reform agenda
along these lines.
21.   Russia is the world's largest supplier of natural gas, accounting for over 25% of global
production, 34% of proven reserves, and 40% of inter-regional gas trade. The industry is dominated by
Gazprom, which controls 95% of the production and all of the transmission and export trade. Gazprom's
1996 after-tax profits were approximately $6 billion on gross revenues of approximately $30 billion and
assets of $85 billion. The state owns a 40 percent share in Gazprom; most of the balance is held by
employees and Russian investors. Local supply is handled by roughly 300 local distribution companies
(LDCs), which are generally majority owned by their employees. The financial position of the LDCs is
weak, however, due to nonpayments, distortions in the tariff structures, and encroachments in their
service areas. As a result, Gazprom has acquired significant ownership stakes in some of the LDCs, and
there is pressure within parts of the Government to grant Gazprom an increased mandate in distribution.



7
22.    Like the power sector, the gas sector has been a focal point of the arrears crisis of the last several
years. Gazprom estimates that it received payment for only 50 percent of the gas which it supplied over
the past year. Pricing mechanisms and regulation also need further development to promote efficiency
and ensure financial viability. Wholesale gas prices are set by the government based on Gazprom's
reported costs, and until recently were uniform throughout the country. Distribution margins for
industrial customers are set at a fixed sum without regard to the cost structure and customer mix of the
distributor, while margins to residential customers have alternated between federally mandated levels,
and cost-based margins set by local regulatory agencies.
23.    The Government's medium-term reform program for the gas sector is to introduce competition
where possible by ensuring third-party access to the transmission system and direct contractual
arrangements between independent gas producers and gas consumers, and by holding tenders for the
right to develop new gas fields. In addition, major changes in the gas pricing system are being
implemented, including steps to increase transparency, improve the regulatory process, and reduce cross-
subsidies among regions and customer groups. The Bank is providing technical assistance for gas price
reforms.
24.    Railway transport is critical to the Russian economy, carrying over 90% of shipments of coal,
ore, ferrous metals and cement, 80% of chemical and mineral fertilizers and 70% of construction
materials. Although competition with road transport is growing in the market for containers, perishables
and high value goods, this is largely limited to west of the Urals and the Far East where the highway
sector is fairly well-developed. Most of Russia's industrial customers, therefore, are dependent upon the
railways, which is essentially a monopoly. The seventeen geographically separate, but contiguous
individual railway entities spread across the country are centrally integrated and controlled by the
Ministry of Railways (MPS), which until recently also set tariffs and overall rail policy. There is no
intra-rail competition as each railway has a monopoly on its own territory. Rail revenues from transit
traffic, more than 60% of all traffic, are distributed in a centralized way so as to even out the financial
condition of individual railways; thus certain railways are subsidized at the expense of those with less
traffic, a system which produces little incentive to reduce costs. Freight and passenger services are not
run as separate businesses, and revenues from freight are used to cross-subsidize losses from passenger
services. Rail tariffs are not regionally differentiated and are based on the overall network's costs,
varying largely by weight and distance. The railways present structure was organized to meet transport
requirements prescribed centrally under the command economy and has not yet been transformed into a
company (or companies) operating' according to commercial practices with the ability to focus on service
quality. The MPS structure also includes many ancillary activities, including schools, hospitals, houses,
restaurants as well as industrial activities, such as manufacturing of wagons, locomotives, track facilities
and construction units. Unbundling these from the main business of operating efficient freight and
passenger service is necessary for the railways to serve Russia's emerging market economy.
25.    Russia's general economic decline has compounded these structural difficulties in the rail sector.
Rail traffic has declined precipitously since the breakup of the former Soviet Union and is not likely to
recover to previous levels until well into the next century. Freight traffic has fallen by more than half
since 1991 and passenger traffic by more than 35%. The railways have made some efforts to cut costs,
but labor productivity in 1995 was only 60% of 1991 levels and the wage growth rate was 37% higher
than in the country as a whole. The total number of workers in the industry in 1995 was over 2 million
people, of which only 55% are directly in the transportation business.
26.   The decline in rail traffic and high fixed costs are compounded by the need to cover losses in
intercity and urban passenger services. In 1991, 7% of freight revenues were used to cover passenger



8
service losses; by the end of 1996, this figure had risen to 21% (Rub 14.5 trillion or nearly $3 billion).
According to an analysis by the Ministry of Railways, the bulk of the subsidy from freight is used to
cover losses associated with suburban passenger services, for which revenues covered only 16% of costs
in 1995, and with intercity passenger traffic, for which tariffs covered 55% of costs in 1995. Despite the
policy of maintaining passenger tariffs at artificially low levels, overall passenger traffic (in terms of
passenger-km) declined by 13% in 1996 over 1995.
27.    To combat the decline in traffic, until recently, the main response of MPS was to raise freight
tariffs. From 1990 to early 1997, rail rates increased several times faster than general inflation, and they
are now substantially higher than economic costs. In 1996, compared to 1991, the increase in freight
tariffs was three times higher than the growth in industrial prices. Moreover freight rates have not been
applied equally to shippers. Individual railroads have been offering discounts and preferential tariffs to
selected customers or certain commodity groups in a non-transparent way. These trends suggest that
Russia's competitiveness in coal, metals, timber and other industries dependent upon the rail will
continue to be reduced by the railway's high tariffs and lack of productive focus or commercial
orientation.
28.    Despite the higher tariffs, the financial condition of the railways is in jeopardy and the ability of
the railways to make investments to preserve essential assets and modernize rail service is increasingly in
doubt. The railways lost Rub 1.6 trillion in 1996 and are projecting a loss of Rub 9.6 trillion for 1997.
The rate of profitability dropped from 52% in 1995 to 23% in 1996 and losses are now being incurred on
freight as well as passenger services, with profits from ancillary activities reportedly covering the overall
deficit.
29.    Recognizing the need for reform, the Government has taken actions to develop a structural
reform program in the railway sector. An April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree, Number 426, set forth a
staged plan of restructuring over a three year period. With respect to improving the railway's competitive
structure, the following measures have been on the agenda in 1997: (a) to introduce a new procedure of
Government regulation of freight tariffs that would take into account pattern and volume of traffic,
increase in labor productivity, restructuring and cost-cutting measures, etc.; (b) to phase out cross-
subsidization of passenger losses by freight customers and provide compensation of passenger losses in
Federal and local budgets as appropriate; (c) to lower freight tariffs; (d) to separate unused facilities and
divest these and other ancillary activities; (e) to create conditions for the development of competition in
the rail services market which would provide equal access to rail infrastructure and repair facilities to
different owners of rolling stock; and (f) to complete the establishment of the Federal Service to
Regulate Natural Monopolies in Transport (FSNMT) to set tariff policies and regulate tariffs in railways
and other transport sectors.
30.    Price Reform.  The Government's priority objective in "natural" monopoly reform  is to
introduce pricing practices for electricity, gas, and rail services that will encourage efficient production
and usage. A fundamental issue the Government must face in this regard is that pricing in these sectors
is based on Soviet-style accounting, which fails to appropriately treat key cost components, such as
depreciation, and prevents providers from recovering the actual cost of service. Furthermore, prices are
set to enable new investments to be fully funded from internal cash generation, as capital markets for
long term investments are, as yet, in their early stages of development in Russia. In response to this, the
Government will attempt to move toward modern pricing principles used in market economies.
31.    The Government committed to price reform in the natural monopoly industries in its Medium-
Term Program. The Government has established principles and procedures for the pricing of electricity



9
and railways services, and is in the process of finalizing principles and procedures for pricing gas
production and transmission services. With a view to encouraging efficient production and usage of
these services, these pricing principles will: (i) allow suppliers to recover prudently incurred fixed and
variable costs; (ii) reflect differences in cost between customer classes and geographic regions; and (iii)
over time, adjust to reflect the evolution of costs and demand conditions. To facilitate effective
regulation, the Government is developing information and reporting requirements for the regulated
entities (including details on proposed investment and the structure and cost of financing). Cross-
subsidies are currently the most acute pricing issue. They impose artificially high costs on industrial
production while inefficiently subsidizing households. Under its natural monopoly reform initiatives,
supported by the SAL program, the Government approved in early April 1997 an ambitious action plan
for the phased elimination of cross-subsidies among consumer groups for all natural monopoly services
(Government Resolution No. 389).
32.   In addition, the following measures have been taken in each sector:
* In electric power, the Government has established a "National Energy Market" for industrial
customers who pay their electricity bills on time, with cash. Direct contracting with generators has
been permitted, reducing the cost of electricity by about 35% for these customers. The Government
has also passed Resolution Number 1231 on September 26, 1997 outlining targets for eliminating
cross-subsidies to household customers by the year 2000 with the first step taken this year. In April
1997, the FEC established standards for implementing a two block tariff for household electricity
consumption to reduce the impact of price increases on the poor.
-  With respect to natural gas price reform, in February 1997 wholesale natural gas prices were
modestly differentiated across geographic regions. In July, the Federal Energy Commission
published official rules and procedures for setting differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas
based on production and transportation costs, and in September, it adopted a resolution (FEC
Resolution No. 110) which provides for the introduction of six zonal prices, with a differential of at
least 25 percent between the minimum and maximum price. The new prices are effective December
1, 1997. Until a competitive market for gas production is introduced, wholesale gas prices will
continue to be regulated: (a) at the city gate, including separately set tariffs for gas transmission; or
(b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas transmission prices, each set separately. These
principles have been elaborated in FEC Resolution 119/6, dated October 31, 1997, which established
the procedures for regulating wholesale natural gas prices. At the retail level, by December 31, 1997
the Government will begin to delegate the power to implement the regulation of gas prices for final
consumers to the Regional Energy Commissions according to pricing principles and procedures now
being prepared by the FEC. This will both facilitate reduction of cross-subsidies in distribution
margins, and ensure that distribution margins are more closely related to local costs of supply. The
latter will also improve the financial viability of many of the local distribution companies, which will
enhance its ability to attract investment capital.
* In the railways sector, the Government is establishing general pricing principles and procedures that
will help encourage efficient provision and usage of railway services. These procedures were
outlined in Government Resolution Number 410 of April 8, 1997, which also limited increases in
tariffs to increases in the wholesale price index. In addition to "capping" the level of rate increases,
the Government issued a resolution on September 30, 1997 reducing average rates for freight (total
revenues divided by ton-kilometers) by 5 percent compared to rates effective in September 1, 1997.
Several other freight rate reductions were introduced as of July 1, 1997, including reductions on
specific commodities at specific rates and on new traffic of certain volume. Cross-subsidies of



10
passenger losses through freight rates are being phased out by a combination of measures including:
raising passenger fares; devolving suburban services to municipal and regional governments and
ensuring that losses on these services are compensated through the federal budget as appropriate; by
separating passenger from freight services and taking measures to cut costs where appropriate; by
compensating intercity passenger losses through the Federal budget and/or eliminating remaining
federal privileges on the fares of individual passenger categories. On September 15, 1997,
Government Resolution Number 389 was issued, which increased intercity passenger rates by 10%;
destinations to the Baltics and CIS countries were increased 65%. The Government is also
developing proposals for reforming budget subsidization of railway passenger traffic. In compliance
with an agreement that remaining federal privileges on fares of individual passenger categories
should be financed from the federal budget, the draft 1998 budget includes Rub 450 billion for
Federal compensation of intercity passenger losses. In the process of budget discussion in the State
Duma, the Ministry of Finance will finalize the scale of the use of federal and other budgetary
resources for financing railway passenger services. The Government is also studying the cost of
federally mandated exemptions with a view toward reducing these. In order to ensure that future
rates take into account reductions in the railways' cost-base due to railway restructuring measures,
by January 15, 1998, the FSNMT, together with MOE, MinFin and the Anti-Monopoly Committee
will develop an action plan and proposed targets for achieving further rate reductions in the coming
year, in conjunction with proposed rail restructuring plans. Efforts are also being made to limit
preferential tariffs and the scale of discounts and to make these available to shippers in a less
discriminatory manner. For most products, preferential tariffs are scheduled to expire on December
31, 1997, and M.PS has drafted regulations providing for the elimination of most other remaining
preferential tariffs on that date as well. To enhance transparency regarding the provision of
preferential tariffs and to clarify the framework under which regional railways can offer discounts to
shippers, and in compliance with Government Resolution Number 410, the FSNMT will issue
regulations and methodologies governing railway tariffs, including discounts and preferential tariffs.
33.    Elimination of cross-subsidization will lead to further increases in energy prices and railway
tariffs paid by households. This may have a substantial poverty impact. To mitigate this, the
Government has mandated municipal authorities to provide targeted mean-tested income transfers to
families with housing expenditures exceeding 15% of their gross money income. Most municipalities
have been running such programs since 1995. In addition, to improve local capacity for delivering social
assistance, the Government has decided recently to pilot a few alternative schemes for administering
universal mean-tested poverty benefits. These pilots will be supported through the Bank's proposed
Social Protection Assistance Adjustment Loan.
34.    Reducing Payment Arrears. Another Government objective in the "natural" monopoly sectors
is to reduce payment arrears and improve the flow of payments. Energy providers are faced with the
problem of being unable to cut off supply to so-called "strategic customers;" such customers can still
obtain services even if they are in arrears. This has created a chain of payment arrears which have
multiplied through the economy, contributing in particular to serious wage arrears and increased tax
arrears to the budget. The arrears have also in many cases seriously affected the financial viability of
local utility companies. The original list of "strategic customers" was long and included defense-related
as well as many other companies. In January 1997 the Government substantially reduced the list of
"strategic customers"; entities taken off the list account for the large bulk of all energy deliveries to
"strategic customers" as previously defined. Virtually all remaining "strategic customers" are entities
responsible for Russia's external and internal security. Earlier legal provisions that prohibited suppliers
form cutting off service to classes of customers have also been revoked. With respect to reducing arrears



11
in the railway sector, MPS has issued a directive in July 1997 offering discounts relative to the time of
payment for freight services.
35.   Additionally, the Government will use the regulatory process and corporate governance
mechanisms to encourage strict enforcement of payment discipline. To improve the flow of payments
and reduce arrears in the energy sector, the Government made provisions in the 1997 budget to pay for
the fuel and energy consumption of the remaining "strategic customers" who may not be disconnected
for nonpayment, and committed to ensuring that there would be no arrears to energy suppliers on account
of the remaining strategic customers. In mid-1997, the Government reviewed its position and, through
Government Resolution 928, made provision to clear arrears to the energy sector which had been
accumulated on these accounts. This has been supplemented by offsets in which tax payments due are
offset by overdue payments by budget entities. It has been agreed that this approach has not met with
satisfactory results. A system will be established whereby monthly reports on non-payments from
Federal and local budget entities will be initiated in the power sector and reviewed with the Government
in the interest of eliminating this component of the accounts receivable problem.
36.   Introducing Competition Where Monopoly is Not "Natural*"  The Government's third
objective is to promote more competitive market structures for infrastructure industries. In Russia, the
electricity, gas, and rail sectors are dominated by vertically integrated monopoly providers who are in a
position to inflate costs, overprice services, and restrict network access. To help rectify this, the
Government has begun a step-by-step restructuring of these industries with a view to demonopolization
and eventual privatization of competitive segments. An inter-ministerial commission under the former
Minister of Economy completed a report in early 1997 with specific recommendations for restructuring
the electricity, natural gas, and railways sectors. On April 28, 1997, Presidential Decree No. 426 was
issued adopting the structural reform principles for these sectors, and in August 1997 the Government
adopted a resolution elaborating a detailed medium-term restructuring program.
37.   In the power sector, the Government created an Independent Financial Operator (IFO) to
establish a competitive Wholesale Market for electricity between large industrial customers and
generators. The IFO, working with the FEC, has established model contracts between these entities,
using the network as a common carrier. The related transmission and distribution costs are regulated by
the FEC and RECs, respectively. The Government is also establishing a Supervisory Council for the
Wholesale Market, comprised of representatives of market participants. A prerequisite for participating
in this market is an agreement to pay cash, in advance, and to eliminate the stock of arrears. Entities that
agree to this, receive about a 35% discount on their electricity payments. This scheme is in its early
stages of implementation with two generators and four customers operating in this market. The IFO is
about to engage consultants, funded by the UK Know-How Fund, to assist further development of this
market.
38.   In parallel with this, the Government is assessing the detailed steps required to separate
generation from the networks in order that an independent, competitive market can be established.
Consultants have been engaged under USAID funding to upgrade the dispatch capabilities to support the
establishment of a market. Consultants have been engaged under Bank financing to devise a detailed
plan for the establishment of independent generation companies. An important component of this will be
the establishment of separate and separable accounts for the generation and network components of the
5   "On Developing Plans for Structural Reforms of Natural Monopolies" submitted to the Government in draft on
January 28, 1997 and in final on March 26, 1997.



12
industry. This will be undertaken for UES as well as for all of the Energos, to ensure that generation can
not be cross-subsidized from transmission or distribution. This is a considerable task that is planned to
commence in the first half of 1998.
39.   In the natural gas sector, initial steps have been taken to promote competition and further
elaborate restructuring plans.
*  Principles for third party access to the gas transportation system were adopted in July in Government
No. 858. The Resolution also established an Inter-Branch Commission to oversee the process and to
review further issues relating to access, including the networks of local distribution companies. The
FEC has issued pricing guidelines and initial tariff levels for access to the transmission network..
Independent producers have already begun to submit applications for access.
*  Promotion of competition in the gas sector is also reflected in the fact that in accordance with
Government Resolution No. 987 of August 7, 1997, the Anti-Monopoly Committee has registered
RAO Gazprom as an economic entity controlling more than 35 percent of its corresponding
production market, thus providing the Committee the authority to regulate market power exercised
by Gazprom in gas production.
*  The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has established a working group to address the Government's
overall policy with respect to the gas sector, including the future structure of the industry and the
rights, responsibilities and inter-relationships among the enterprises engaged in the country's gas
supply.
40.   In railways, a Government committee on railway restructuring involving experts from MPS, the
Ministry of Economy (MOE), the Anti-Monopoly Committee and FSNMT are developing a detailed
railway restructuring program. Final adoption of the plan is expected in December. Consideration is
being given to separating the responsibility for overall rail policy from rail operations and moving the
former to the Ministry of Transport or another body, and making the Ministry of Railways solely
responsible for commercial operations. Several railways are also being combined and low density lines
being divested to industrial sectors or taken out of service. Further staffing reductions are also being
planned. As part of the restructuring efforts, the Ministry of Railways will make public an action plan for
separating passenger and freight services (including accounts) which will identify major assets and
employee groups to be allocated to each business. Contracts for operating suburban services are also
being drawn up and agreements made with regional governments to compensate for 50% of losses on
these services. In 1998 Government intends to begin devolving suburban passenger services to
municipalities and divesting ancillary services and social assets from the railways. The Ministry of
Railways will, by December 31, 1997, make public an action plan for separating passenger and freight
services (including accounts) which will identify major assets and employee groups to be allocated to
each business.
41.   Strengthening Regulation. The Government's fourth objective is to develop the institutional
capacity for effective independent regulatory oversight of "natural" monopoly sectors, a process that will
take time to fully implement. Regulatory commissions have been established throughout the energy,
transport, and telecommunications sectors. For the transport sector, the Government recently appointed
the bead of the FSNMT. In the area of energy, the FEC has played an increasingly active role in
elaborating and implementing principles and procedures to ensure economically sound and transparent
mechanisms for pricing of services and in promoting the development of competitive markets,
particularly in electricity supply.  Indeed, considerable upgrading of energy regulation has been



13
undertaken under the leadership of the new Chairman of the FEC. The regulatory framework to support
the proposed structural changes have been established, with particular focus on creating a electricity
generation market. It has been agreed that the Federal Energy Commission will be given an exclusive
mandate to issue commercial power licenses. Consultants will be engaged under Bank financing to
establish an information system to support needed regulation, put equipment in place to enable this to
system to function and to establish the appropriate legal framework.
42.    Over the medium term, to ensure the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory agencies,
the Government will approve the composition of the boards of the FSNMT and the FSRNMC (for
telecommunications); provide adequate financing and office space for the agencies; and ensure that staff
and commissioners of the agencies will not be allowed to receive payments or other financial
consideration from regulated enterprises.
C. Private Sector Development
43.    Dynamic private sector development will be the key to the resumption of sustained growth in
Russia. With price and trade liberalization substantially completed, this will mainly depend on reforms
in areas that, taken together, create a fertile business environment, including: (i) revitalizing the
enterprise privatization program and establishing institutions and policies that promote competition and
facilitate market-based entry, exit, and enterprise restructuring; (ii) creating functioning markets for
urban land and real estate, which are critical for new startups and the reallocation of assets to higher
values in use; and (iii) further developing capital markets. (Banking issues are covered in a separate
section.)
Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring
44.    Context   In 1993-94, under the voucher mass privatization program, the Government
transferred, either completely or partially, over two-thirds of all large- and medium-sized enterprises and
over 80 percent of all small enterprises to private ownership, including minority stakes in most of
Russia's largest enterprises. The voucher program gave substantial benefits to the insiders of the firms.
In the second stage of privatization (1995-96), the Government sold share packages in several thousand
more enterprises for cash. It also transferred controlling shares in a few of the largest and most attractive
enterprises in trust to Russian banks in exchange for loans--the so-called loans-for-shares scheme. The
lack of transparency in the way these latter privatizations were carried out raised serious concerns about
equity, concentration of market power, and corporate governance. Moreover, because the processes
utilized were insufficiently competitive, government revenues from the transactions were substantially
reduced. In late 1996, the Government announced it would initiate a third stage of privatization, based
on a case-by-case approach. This approach began to be implemented in 1997 under the support of the
SAL program and is initially to last for three years. It is targeted at large enterprises and can involve a
combination of transaction methods, including use of strategic investors, competitive tenders and
auctions, and initial public offerings (IPOs). More generally, in 1997 the Government committed itself
to carry out future privatizations using transparent and competitive procedures. As a step towards that
objective, in mid-1997 the Government completed two of the largest privatizations since 1995: the
US$820 million sale of a 40 percent stake in Tyumen Oil and US$1.8 billion sale of a 25 percent plus
one share stake in the telephone holding company Svyazinvest. While these transactions appear to have
been more transparent and competitive than earlier privatizations, putting in place a fully transparent and
competitive privatization regime in Russia remains a formidable challenge.



14
45.    The pressure for firms to compete against one another remains low in Russia. With blunted
external incentives to become efficient, for example, due to inter-regional barriers to competition, weak
exercise of creditors' rights and barriers to new competitors, enterprises are still in the early stages of
restructuring. There remains huge scope for output and profit gains from the reallocation of existing capital
to higher values in use. But the absence of an effective economic legal framework for bankruptcy and
liquidation acts as a critical constraint on competition and the restructuring of enterprises. At the same
time, weak internal incentives for commercially-oriented corporate governance in large enterprises--both
those that are privately owned and those that continue to be state owned/controlled--also stifle restructuring.
Improving the management of state assets embodied in these enterprises is a key aspect for reform.
46.   Establishing a Transparent and Competitive Privatization Program. The Government's priority
objective in the enterprise sector is to revitalize privatization with a credible program that is based on the
principles of transparency, openness and competition. Despite the extent of Russia's earlier privatization
initiatives in transferring assets to private ownership, the state remains, by far, the largest property
owner, and the federal government continues to retain majority ownership or control in many large
enterprises. This underlines the importance-both in strategic and fiscal revenue terms-of
implementing future privatizations in a sound manner.
47.   Privatizing these remaining  assets-and  doing so using competitive and transparent
procedures-is necessary so as:
* to increase efficiency in use of the assets by improving enterprise management and corporate
governance, enhancing restructuring incentives, and locking in "hard" budget constraints. Under
competitive privatization procedures, the winning bidders are more likely to be those who can
best manage the assets-and thus produce the highest value added for the economy.
* to send a signal to both domestic and foreign investors that Russia's business environment is
open, competitive, and investor-friendly, and that private sector development is market-driven.
Transparent privatization militates against insider deals and sends the signal that regulatory and
other similar decisions in Russia are made predominantly on commercial, economic grounds.
*  to promote domestic support for overall market reforms and to demonstrate to the Russian
population that privatization can be open and fair. The Russian public is extremely disenchanted
with many of the recent transactions that have transferred assets to a select group of insiders at
give-away prices.
*  to raise substantial budget revenues. Cross-country experience shows that competitive and
transparent privatizations could generate billions of dollars in needed fiscal revenue over the
next several years.
48.   The process by which privatizations are carried out has important ramifications for the efficiency
of resource allocation, further investment from domestic and foreign sources, public support for reform,
and budget revenues. Thus future privatization procedures-especially for the largest companies-
should adhere to the following principles:
* The design of each transaction should be tailored to the enterprise's and purchaser's specific
situation--this is the hallmark of the "case-by-case" approach. The transactions should be done
in the context of an overall privatization process that is well planned and executed in conformity
with international investment practices and capital market standards.



15
*  Transactions should be transparent and competitive to ensure equal access by all potential
investors, including foreign participants. Reputable and experienced independent financial
advisors are critical to safeguard the integrity of the process; their involvement is integral to the
case-by-case framework that has been established (see below).
*  Maximum restructuring efficiency and financial returns to the government from a sale will likely
come by utilizing outside, strategic investors who can bring renewed commitment and fresh
ideas to the business.
49.    Tc meet these objectives in the case-by-case privatization program, the Government issued two
resolutions (Government Resolutions No. 363 of April 1, 1997 and No. 564-R of May 12, 1997)
specifying rules and implementation procedures for such privatizations. The resolutions require the
case-by-case privatizations to be fully open and competitive (includirig through equal and open access to
domestic and foreign buyers), and using openly and competitively selected financial advisors. The
privatization transactions themselves will also be widely advertised domestically and internationally.
Enterprises will be valued at market prices or, if they are not traded, based on international business
valuation procedures. With the support of Bank technical assistance, the Government selected four pilot
companies for an initial case-by-case privatization program beginning in 1997 under the principles
outlined in the resolutions, and appointed tender committees for these privatizations (GKI Directive No.
356-r of May 15, 1997). In November 1997 the financial advisors had been selected for each of the four
cases, and it is planned that beginning in the spring of 1998 the tender committees will issue the tenders
for the sales.
50.   More generally, the Government has committed to implementing future privatizations on the
basis of a common framework of principles and procedures that ensures transparency, openness and
competition. The methods for carrying out future privatizations will be "commercial competitive
bidding", and "auctions" or "specialized auctions" as defined in law, including "On Privatizing State
Property and on the Principles of Privatizing Municipal Property in the Russian Federation", which was
adopted by the State Duma on 24th June, 1997 (the Privatization Law). In accordance with the relevant
laws, bidding procedures will encourage all interested parties to participate; privatizations will be widely
advertised, including internationally where this could attract additional qualified buyers; when employed,
financial advisers will be reputable, and engaged through a transparent, competitive process; conflicts of
interest will be avoided; and bid evaluations will be carried out objectively.
51.   In accordance with the Privatization Law, in August, 1997 the Government submitted to the
State Duma the "State Program of Privatization in the Russian Federation" (State Privatization Program),
which identifies two lists: (i) 37 state enterprises held in federal property and subject to reorganization
into open joint stock companies and privatization beginning in 1998; and (ii) 29 open joint stock
companies whose federally held shares are subject to sale beginning in 1998. Not counting the four pilot
case-by-case transactions initiated in 1997, at least a quarter of the enterprises which are on the lists (i)
and (ii) above, and which will experience continuation of privatization measures initiated in 1997 or
initiation of such measures in 1998, will be privatized through "case-by-case" transactions as defined by
Government Resolutions 363 and 564-R of 1997 (involving in particular the engagement of financial
advisers as early as possible in the process), and building on any experience from the four pilots. The
Government will take all reasonable steps to ensure State Duma deliberation on the State Privatization
Program, and to facilitate its passage. Should the State Duma not approve the legislation in a timely
fashion, the Government will take all necessary and feasible steps in conformity with the legislation in
force to enable the privatizations referred to in (i) and (ii) above to proceed in 1998-99 in accordance



16
with the approaches defined above. By 31st December, 1997 the Ministry of State Property will send to
the Bank for information the indicative list of the firms whose privatization is envisaged in 1998 and
1999 in accordance with above, and an indicative quarterly timetable of actions therefor; it will also send
to the Bank for information an update of this list/timetable every six months thereafter.
52.   Fostering Exit of Non- Viable Firms and Improving the Management of State Assets. To meet
the Government's second objective of establishing institutions and policies that promote inter-firm
competition and facilitate market-based entry and exit, as well as introducing commercially oriented
internal governance incentives in large enterprises that are state-owned or -controlled, the policy
framework for bankruptcy is being improved and new state asset management trust arrangements are
being developed.
53.   The bankruptcy process is slow in Russia, and very few non-viable companies, even if they enter
bankruptcy, end up being liquidated. The Government is addressing weaknesses in the legal framework
for bankruptcy in order to facilitate the exit of non-viable enterprises. To this end, the Government has
sent a draft bankruptcy law to the Duma, which has passed its first reading. Relative to current law, the
new draft provides for: (i) an increased role for creditor committees in the resolution of insolvency cases;
(ii) more expeditious appointment on a competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace
incumbent enterprise managers; (iii) differentiation of classes of creditors; and (iv) stricter observance of
time limits for workout and liquidation proceedings by all parties.
54.   In addition to the actions aimed at improving the bankruptcy legislative framework, the
restructuring process in the Russian economy could be expedited by implementing pilot projects targeted
towards bankruptcy of insolvent enterprises in cases that are especially difficult in such a way that
minimizes possible negative social consequences of bankruptcy. For such purposes, and taking into
account the basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy Law, the Government will approve, by adopting
appropriate directives, in the first quarter of 1998, a procedure for implementing and financing
bankruptcy pilot projects involving insolvent enterprises. The Federal Service on Bankruptcy Matters
and Financial Rehabilitation (FSBMFR), will implement in 1998 at least 4 bankruptcy pilots embracing
large enterprises that experience serious financial difficulties and have bad market prospects. The results
of the pilots implemented will be widely reflected in a report of the FSBMFR to (i) provide arbitrators
with data on the relevant procedures; and (ii) provide creditors and other persons concerned with the
most detailed information about the mechanisms and advantages of hearing bankruptcy cases in the
court.
55.   The Government is developing a new program for placing enterprises in temporary trust
management (management contracts). This can either turn into a vehicle to delay or avoid privatization,
to pre-privatize enterprise in a non-transparent, non-competitive fashion, or to improve the efficiency of
state asset management and the quality of later privatization.  The Government understands the
importance of ensuring that the trust management program becomes a vehicle for improving state asset
management and the quality of later privatization. Presidential Decree No.1660 on Trust Management
was issued on December 9, 1996. The decree establishes the general framework for trust management
agreements and specifies the functions of a trust manager which can be fulfilled without consultation
with Government. Using the coal industry as a model, the Government on December 11, 1996 issued
Resolution No. 1485, which provided the basis in principle for removing five coal companies from the
commercial management of RosUgol and placing them into trust management. Since then, the
implementation of trust management arrangements in the coal sector has proceeded fitfully, because of
continuing fundamental debates within the Government about the relative merits and the phasing of trust
management and privatization, and because of a number of complex contractual and design issues,



17
including trust managers' remuneration. In the coal sector, the Government has decided to move to
direct privatization from now on.
56.   To make further progress on this score, the Government issued the "Procedure for Transferring
Federally Owned Shares of Joint Stock Companies Created in the Course of Privatization to Trust
Managers and Concluding Trust Management Agreements Regarding those Shares" (Government
Resolution No. 989 of August 7, 1997). This resolution sets out initial market-based guidelines for trust
management arrangements, including the competitive selection of trust managers. The Ministry of State
Property (MSP) (formerly GKI) will issue a directive by November 30, 1997 that contains detailed
implementing regulations that specify: (a) a trust management contract has the objective of improving
the financial operation of enterprises and to prepare them for privatization following the expiration of the
contract; (b) contracts are to specify performance based compensation linked to financial results; and (c)
compensation is to be paid through the term of the contract, not a lump-sum paid at the contract's
expiration. Moreover, according to Article 1015 of the Second Part of the Civil Code, property shall not
be subject to transfer under trust management to a state agency or a local self-government body. An
individual entrepreneur or a for-profit organization except for a unitary enterprise may act as a trust
manager. In accordance with Government Resolution No. 989, evaluation of contract bids is to be
carried out using methods that are consistent with international standards of competition, neutrality and
equity.
57.   Under the SAL program, five large enterprises outside the coal sector were to be selected and to
enter into pilot trust management arrangements by December 31, 1997, unless a decision was made by
MSP to privatize these companies earlier. Six oil companies were chosen, and the privatization option
was selected: Vostsibneftegas; Eastern Oil Company; Siberian and Urals Oil and Gas Chemical
Company "Sibur"; Tiumen Oil Company "TNK"; Oil Company "Komi TEK"; and Oil Company
"NORSI-OIL". The privatization of these firms, including controlling, voting shares, is to be made
through "specialized auctions" on a transparent and competitive basis and open to all interested
investors, and subject to principles consistent with the new case-by-case framework as specified by
Government Resolutions 363 and 564, and GKI Directive 356-r. MSP is to ensure that, 30 days prior to
the auction of each these firms, individual advertisements for the sales shall be placed in widely read
international publications.
Urban Land and Real Estate
58.   Context In most economies in transition, economic recovery is driven by the entry of new firms.
New enterprise startups in Russia have been hindered by restricted access to commercial real estate,
including retail and office space. The primary reason for this has been the effective monopoly ownership
and control over urban land exercised by municipal administrations. In combination with legislation
which has made competitive leasing of real estate a precursor to a mandated giveaway, this monopoly
has led to artificial limits on the supply of urban land and real estate made available for competitive
commercial lease. It has also led to the widespread allocation of leased commercial real estate on a non-
economic basis. That privatized enterprises do not own the land on which they are located is an equally
significant problem-enterprises cannot realize the value of the land via mortgage, lease, or sale, nor can
they restructure effectively by modifying the structures which are located on the land (control rights over
the land flow only from the ownership rights over the structures), nor can any other entity, including the
city administration, make use of the land while the enterprise is located on it. Finally, the failure to
assign clear rights and responsibilities for the lease or outright sale of unoccupied and undeveloped urban
land is another restriction on the supply and access to urban real estate. The Government took initial
measures to address these areas in 1993, but these measures inadvertently created incentives for local



18
officials to allocate real estate administratively on non-market terms; moreover, detailed guidelines and
regulations have not been issued. In its recently released medium-term program, the Government has
signaled its intention to redress the incentive problems and issue the necessary guidelines.
59.    Facilitating the ownership of land by privatized enterprises is one of the first steps identified by
the Government to diminish the municipalities' monopoly control over urban real estate.  By
streamlining the process and lowering the prices at which privatized enterprises may buy out the land
underneath them, the measure will both diversify the ownership structure of urban land and rationalize
the ownership and control rights to land underneath enterprises so that the enterprise may begin to realize
the asset value of that land. Full ownership rights will enable them to sell and/or mortgage their land to
finance necessary restructuring and/or relocate to areas more appropriate to their business activities.
60.   Although in theory enterprises have the right to privatize their associated land plots, in practice
the guidelines and procedures are unclear. Consequently, less than 1% of the land under privatized
enterprises has been privatized. The Government has pursued the objective to issue guidelines that
permit private enterprises to assert and receive full ownership rights in a timely fashion. The right of
enterprises to acquire the land on which they are located was in principle established by Presidential
Decree in 1992. The Privatization Program for 1995 reinforced this right. To further meet this objective,
Presidential Decree No. 485 was issued on May 16, 1997 to establish the necessary framework to enable all
owners of privatized non-land real estate assets (including production complexes, buildings, facilities, and
unfinished construction) to acquire the land on which these assets are located.
61.    Creating a Leasing Market for Commercial Real Estate. The Government's second objective
in the sector is to create a leasing market for commercial real estate. Local governments face distorted
incentives to lease and sell commercial real estate at market prices. Under existing regulations they can
maximize their political leverage by allocating real estate use rights on a non-competitive basis at below-
market prices. The federal government therefore intends to modify regulations to discourage local
governments from restricting competitive leasing and sale of premises and will ensure that transactions
are conducted at market rates. To address the issue, buyouts of competitively leased commercial real
estate were mandated in the 1994 Privatization Program. However, this created incentives for continued
administrative allocation of land. To make further progress in this area, under the SAL program, by June
30, 1997 a presidential decree was to be issued to cover four main goals to foster land/real estate
transactions: (i) create a legal framework requiring that the sale of all premises belonging to the federal
Government which are currently under lease to commercial entities be carried out at market rates; (ii)
eliminate all existing restrictions on the market sale of such real estate; (iii) all future leases of the
federal owned property will be at market prices; and (iv) recommend that all the procedures outlined in
the decree be followed by regional and local governments. While the presidential decree was not issued,
a new privatization law was approved by the Duma in June. An analysis was performed by the Ministry
of State Property that assesses the nature of the gaps between the earlier agreed objectives and the
privatization law. The analysis indicates that many of the above-mentioned objectives are covered under
the privatization law.
62.   Improving the Allocation and Use of Undeveloped Land. The Government's third objective is
to create a market for undeveloped land within and bordering city limits for commercial development.
There is substantial vacant land in and around cities. This land cannot be used by potential start-up
enterprises because the authority to allocate this land has not been clearly assigned. The Government
plans to assign cities the authority to allocate undeveloped land within and bordering cities, and establish
a market-based framework for the allocation of unused urban land. There is a Law on Zoning currently
under discussion in the State Duma. To meet this objective, a presidential decree was issued in



19
November 1997 to establish a framework for market-based sales of undeveloped land and/or land not
currently in use (including nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used for commercial
development, including through auctions and competitive tenders.   A  government resolution
recommending model procedures and documents will also be issued.
63.   In the medium-term, the Government intends to create a state system for registering real estate
rights and transactions under the "Uniform State Register of Real Estate Rights and Transactions," as
well as creating a base of standards for a system by which to ensure rights of ownership of real estate,
including the institution of title insurance. A mechanism for taxing real estate on the basis of its fair
market value will be developed, and current legislation will be amended so as to reduce the cost of
consummating real estate transactions. In addition, the Government will undertake measures to increase
the liability of real estate market professionals, intensify state supervision over observance of licensing
conditions in professional activity in the real estate market, and raise licensing requirements on real
estate market professionals to ensure a high level of qualifications. It will also introduce administrative
and criminal liability for the most serious violations in the real estate market and improve defense of the
rights and interests of real estate market professionals by means of private-practice law. Finally, the
principle of authorized [razreshennoye] use of real estate in place of earmarked [tselevoye] use will be
established, as well as procedures for zoning the land of population centers on the basis of land use
rights, under which rights and restrictions pertaining to different uses of land parcels and other real estate
and building restrictions would be determined for each particular district of a city.
Capital Markets
64.    Context Increasing investment is key to a resumption of economic growth in Russia. The
development of capital markets, with the necessary transparency and safeguards for investors, is essential
to help mobilize Russia's investment needs. Much progress has been made in clarifying institutional
authority and responsibility for building and overseeing capital markets. An important first step was the
full establishment of the Russian Federal Commission for the Securities Market (RFCSCM) in 1996.
The RFCSCM now is directing a broad agenda of legal, regulatory and market development initiatives,
supported by bilateral and multilateral assistance, including the Bank's Capital Markets Development
Loan and the Investor Protection Program under the Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan. The
conditions and workplan described below are reform measures which are critical for capital markets
development but which cannot be developed and implemented by the RFCSCM alone. These measures
require reform initiatives and actions by ministries and agencies in addition to the RFCSCM, and
political commitment at the highest levels is needed to carry them out.
65.   Moving Enterprise Accounting Toward International Accounting Standards. Without timely
and accurate information that conveys an enterprise's financial performance and condition, market
signals and incentives cannot work to encourage economically efficient enterprise management,
restructuring and investment. A prerequisite to efficient working of the financial sector, including
capital markets, is the emergence of an environment which encourages enterprises to provide such
information to would-be lenders and investors. Market-based incentives for Russian enterprises to
produce meaningful financial information are beginning to emerge-as enterprises adjust and restructure
to a market environment, the unreformed framework for both taxation and accounting is proving to be a
significant deterrent to the emergence of financial transparency among enterprises. Therefore the
Government's first objective in the sector is to improve the quality of financial information available for
managers and investors and help attract more capital, beginning with the development of financial
accounting and reporting standards for enterprises consistent with International Accounting Standards
(IAS).



20
66.    Disincentives to a radical shift to IAS include concerns over potential fiscal revenue shortfalls if
the shift is made without coordinated changes in tax accounting. The Government will coordinate efforts
by the Ministry of Finance, CBR, RFCSCM, and the Ministry of Economy to define and implement the
move towards lAS-consistent financial accounting for enterprises. This shift to IAS is identified as a
priority area for reform in the Government's medium-term program for structural reform. To meet this
objective, the Government has published a draft agreed Action Program to introduce generally accepted
accounting principles consistent with IAS.
67.   In the medium term, the Government will develop a nationwide program for the transition to
IAS, including measures to train and retrain specialists at enterprises. Following the development of a
legal framework for accounting reform in 1997, its introduction will follow in 1998. Use of either the
old or new balance sheet forms will be acceptable for 1998 and 1999, and during this phase all practicing
accountants will be required to under retraining to use the new forms. The Government anticipates that a
full transition to the new accounting system will be completed in a uniform system of accountant and
auditor certification developed by 2000.
68.   Independent Audits of Enterprises. A parallel set of activities to those listed above regarding
the introduction of financial accounts based on international standards are to be undertaken to introduce
independent audits of such accounts in enterprises. In late 1997 the Government will approve and
publish for public comment an agreed Action Program to require, no later than June 1999, independent
audits of the financial accounts of enterprises.
69.   Improving Capital Income Taxation. The Government's third objective in capital market
development is to reduce distortions in the taxation of capital income to improve the efficiency of
allocation of capital. Complex, poorly designed, and in some cases excessive taxes distort commercial
and financial behavior of securities issuers, financial intermediaries, and savers. The Government intends
to rationalize the system of capital income taxation, though no actions have been taken so far. To meet
this objective, as part of the draft Tax Code, the Government has submitted draft legislation to introduce
an improved framework for the taxation of capital income. This framework includes shifts toward: (i)
uniformity of tax rates and treatment for securities and other financial assets, including removal of tax
privileges or exemptions for specific types of securities; (ii) elimination of double taxation on investment
through collective investment vehicles such as mutual funds; and (iii) deductibility of capital losses from
the sale of securities. The draft Tax Code does not stipulate any transaction taxes or fees on the
circulation of securities.
D. Fiscal Management
70.    Context. Achieving significant fiscal management reform in 1997-98 and beyond will be critical
in enabling the Government to meet its economic development and social objectives while sustaining
macroeconomic stabilization. The Government is keenly aware of the need for fiscal reform and, in
particular, a substantial improvement in revenue performance. It also recognizes the crucial importance
of tax and spending reforms for tightening budget constraints and payment discipline at the enterprise
level and for removing distortions and inefficiencies in revenue generation and expenditure allocation
that impede new private investment.
71.    The Government's strategy focuses on further reducing the budget deficit by turning around the
ongoing serious erosion in revenue collections while also making more effective use of limited fiscal
resources across government functions, sectors, and regions.  This will entail a broad range of



21
fundamental fiscal reforms in several core areas: (i) rationalizing the tax structure, (ii) improving tax
administration; (iii) strengthening budget management; (iv) rationalizing government spending; and (v)
reforming intergovernmental fiscal relations. In November 1997 the Government announced the Action
Plan to Increase the Collection of Taxes and Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures (see para. 8 above). In
addition, the Government is committed to rationalizing some major expenditure programs, including in
the areas of agriculture, coal, housing, and pensions. As reforms enhancing the efficiency of government
activities in these areas are supported by other World Bank loans (e.g., Coal SECAL-I and II, Enterprise
Housing Divestiture, Social Protection Adjustment and a possible Agriculture SECAL), they are not
described in this Report.
72.   Reforming the Overall Tax Structure. A principal Government objective in the fiscal area is to
strengthen the revenue base while reducing the distortionary impact of the tax system. Russia's current
complex and distorted tax system makes legal compliance difficult and expensive and encourages tax
evasion. These distortions derive in part from a poor definition of the tax base.  In particular, cash
accounting leads to a decline in tax liabilities given the high level of inter-enterprise arrears. Until
recently, substantial components of the overall compensation and benefits package of private sector
employees (such as interest on bank deposits and preferential credits provided by an employer) were
excluded from taxable income. Excise tax revenues were negatively affected by regular delays in
indexation of excise rates for inflation as well as the use of ad valorem excises, which led to losses from
under-invoicing. The high incidence of tax exemptions for individual taxpayers and specific tax benefits
for particular sectors and activities makes tax administration too complicated and further undermines its
efficiency. At the same time, some regular business costs (such as advertising costs, travel expenses, and
interest charges) still cannot be fully deducted from the profit tax base, which creates additional
incentives for tax evasion.
73.   The Government intends a major reform of the tax system through the passage of the Tax Code,
which it considers a significant improvement over existing tax legislation. The draft Tax Code passed a
first reading in the State Duma earlier this year; however, the Duma recently decided to send the Code
back for a new first reading. The Government continues working closely with the State Duma to secure
final adoption of the Code on a timely basis. The draft 1998 budget submitted by the Government to the
Duma assumes that the Tax Code will become effective. Among many improvements, the Tax Code
envisages (i) the adoption of accrual accounting under both the VAT (both credits and liabilities) and the
profit tax; (ii) the indexation of specific excise rates for inflation; (iii) the elimination of preferential
rates under the profit tax; (iv) a simplification of filing requirements under the profit tax and personal
income tax; (v) clarification of inter-governmental tax sharing arrangements; and (vi) the deduction of all
business expenses when measuring the profit tax base. In an effort to provide an efficient enforcement of
the Tax Code provisions, the Government is going to approve procedures and timetables for the
implementation of key reform measures under the Tax Code, such as the move to tax assessments on an
accrual basis, the unification of VAT and profit tax rates, and move to international definition of
corporate profits for tax purposes. The Government will also launch training for federal and regional
officials in the application of the Code and start a public information campaign to educate the public
about changes in their rights and obligations under the Code. Should the prospects for the relatively
rapid passage of the Code not appear favorable, the Government plans to accelerate key reforms through
the preparation and submission to the State Duma of separate legislation covering certain taxes or needed
reforms (including many of those mentioned above). In the course of 1998, the Government will
monitor, assess, and regularly report on changes in the amount and composition of tax revenue
collections resulting from the introduction of the Code.



22
74.   To improve the current revenue performance before the Tax Code is effective, the authorities
took a number of measures in 1997 to broaden the base of and increase collections from income and
excise taxes. These include: (i) the preparation of a detailed amendment to the law on Personal Income
Tax; (ii) the introduction of income tax (withholding tax) on interest from securities holdings and ruble
and foreign exchange deposits; the taxation of benefits received from subsidized commercial loans; and
the inclusion in gross personal income, for income tax purposes, of enterprise contributions to employee
insurance schemes; (iii) raising the oil excise tax to Rbl 70,000 per ton; (iv) the use of specific rather
than ad valorem excises for alcohol and tobacco sales to eliminate losses from under-invoicing; (v) the
introduction of a regulation making the use of excise stamps for alcohol and tobacco obligatory; and (vi)
the limitation of duty free importation of excisable goods for humanitarian purposes. The Government
also eliminated the tax deductibility of transfers by RAO EES Rossii to its investment funds.
75.   In an effort to establish an instrument for the regular and accurate monitoring and assessment of
tax expenditures, an amendment was made to the draft Budget Code in September 1997 for consideration
by the State Duma in the second reading, so as to make the evaluation of actual government tax
expenditures a mandatory component of the annual budget execution reports at all levels of government.
76.   Improving Tax Administration. The Government's second fiscal reform objective is to develop
an efficient and impartial tax administration. The current tax administration is over-burdened with
complex filing procedures, weak collection and audit procedures, and under-skilled and over-
decentralized staffing. Non-transparent legislation and its ad hoc application have led to an increasing
perception of an "unfair" tax system and "biased" tax administration. Tax compliance has deteriorated,
substantial tax arrears have accumulated, and a culture of non-payment has developed. Regional
branches of the State Tax Service (STS) face growing pressures from the regional governments, while
the control over their activities from federal STS headquarters in Moscow is weak and non-transparent.
As a result, regions increasingly make special deals with major local taxpayers, which are largely neutral
for regional fiscal balances, but negatively affect federal revenue collections. The Government is fully
aware of the seriousness of the situation and has decided to undertake broad-based reforms of procedures
and management of the STS and the State Customs Committee to fundamentally strengthen their own tax
collection capacity and also improve coordination with the tax and border police and other agencies. In
October 1996, a high-level Emergency Tax Commission (VChK) was created (Presidential Decree No.
1428 of October 11, 1996), which has been dealing with the largest tax debtors in the enterprise sector
through the introduction of debt restructuring and enforcement of current tax payments in full.
77.   In November 1996 the Government approved a detailed Revenue Action Plan that focuses on
increasing tax collections through improvements in tax administration. The Revenue Action Plan, which
has been worked out and is being implemented with technical support from bilateral and multilateral
agencies, includes legislative changes as well as a host of organizational and procedural reforms,
including in the areas of tax assessment, collection, audit, and arrears policies. In the course of 1997, the
authorities have adopted a number of measures to strengthen tax administration which had been
envisioned by the Revenue Action Plan. These include, inter alia, the decision on the phased
establishment of large taxpayer units in 15 key regions to enhance compliance for large enterprises and
steps to make the units operational. As of September 30, 1997, the Government has established and
made operational large taxpayer units of the Federal State Tax Service in five regions. The Government
intends to further improve the effectiveness of these five units and establish more large taxpayer units by
December 31, 1997 in 11 more regions. The government also implemented several measures to enhance
the collection of alcohol taxes by shifting the assessment of excise tax liability for domestic producers to
the point and time of shipment, improving the excise stamp system, strengthening the control of



23
domestic commercial traffic in alcohol and other excisable goods, and introducing tough penalties and
publicizing enforcement actions.
78.   The Revenue Action Plan will also serve as the basic framework for the Government's reform
program in the area of tax administration for the remainder of 1997 and over the medium term. Its full
implementation and the comprehensive follow-through that will be necessary to achieve a sustained
increase in revenue collections will take time. The Government intends to expand the Plan as required in
the context of ongoing and future technical assistance work. During the remainder of 1997 and 1998, the
Government will, according to Resolution No. 1081: (i) guarantee the state monopoly and improve tax
collection, custom and other obligatory payments in the production and sale of alcoholic beverages; (ii)
restructure accumulated tax arrears of those companies which comply with current tax obligations; (iii)
intensify efforts to reveal the incomes of individuals to curb evasion; (iv) develop an action plan to
strengthen the control of barter transactions and the use of promissory notes and other money substitutes;
(v) develop a mechanism for VAT reimbursements to exporters. The Government has come to the
important conclusion that there is a link between tax arrears and government arrears to suppliers.
Therefore changing the fundamental characteristics of taxpayers' behavior requires strengthening budget
expenditure management and ending all foims of mutual arrears clearance, which currently distort
taxpayers' incentives. Accordingly, on November 7, 1997 a Presidential Decree was issued that (i)
instructs the federal Government to end, as of January 1, 1998, the use of all types of mutual offsets,
including cash offsets, for clearing federal tax and budgetary arrears; and (ii) recommends to regional
Governments to end, as of January 1, 1998, the use of arrears offset arrangements at the regional level.
79.   Strengthening Budget Management. Another objective for the Government's fiscal reform
program is to improve budgeting management systems and processes. This will be crucial for bringing
budget execution in line with budget preparation and aligning actual spending with intended budget
outcomes. At present, there is a striking lack of compliance with approved budget laws in the process of
budget execution.  Budget adjustments and sequestration are frequent and non-transparent.  The
Government has limited capacity to control actual spending, which leads to widespread disbursement
delays and expenditure reallocation by the spending agencies. The financial reporting and accounting
framework remains inadequate, and a large portion of public funds remains in off-budget funds which
are poorly controlled by the Ministry of Finance. There is a significant room for budget savings through
better cash and debt management and the introduction of competitive procurement practices which
require major changes in legal and institutional framework governing public contracts.
80.   These deficiencies have resulted in the accumulation of large budgetary arrears (on wages,
pensions, and suppliers payments) and have had substantial negative economic and social ripple effects
throughout the Russian economy. The Government is now committed to eliminating budgetary arrears
on a top priority basis. To this end, beginning in 1997 the federal budget deficit is defined in accrual
terms, so that expenditure arrears become transparent and can no longer serve to compensate revenue
shortfalls and reduce the visible budget deficit. Moreover, the Government has adopted a schedule for
clearing 1996 federal wage and pension arrears during 1997 to be achieved through some improvements
in expenditure control and better prioritization. As of October 31, 1997, all federal pension arrears and
all federal wage arrears have been repaid by the Government. In addition, in summer of 1997 the
Government provided additional budget transfers to regions with the condition that these funds would be
used for repayment of regional budget wage arrears on a matching basis. The Government also intends
to complete by end-1997 the implementation of the mechanism for the Treasury to issue directly
payment orders with respect to wages of the Ministry of Defense.



24
81.   With respect to supplier arrears, the Government intends to address this problem by introducing
a policy of realistic budget expenditure commitments as well as by a stricter control over budget
execution. On April 30, 1997, the Government submitted to the State Duma, a revised draft of the 1997
budget law with expenditure ceilings that are consistent with the revised lower revenue projections under
its program. This was intended to minimize the need for ad-hoc sequestration, which has proved a highly
disruptive and inefficient practice over the last few years. As of September 30, 1997, the Government
has broadly maintained its policy of keeping new spending commitments in line with its sequestration
budget. By November 30, 1997, the Ministry of Finance will have collected all necessary information to
assess the level and structure of federal budgetary arrears to suppliers as of June 30, 1997. The
Government instructed the Ministry of Finance and Goskomstat to develop a statistical format for
monthly reporting by budgetary organizations on the stock of their outstanding arrears to suppliers,
starting in January 1997. Based on this information, the Government will develop an action plan to
reduce the stock of supplier arrears. In addition, on September 2, 1997, the Government issued
Resolution No. 1129, amending the framework for clearing the existing stock of energy arrears
(budgetary arrears to energy suppliers and suppliers' tax arrears), which is the single largest component
of supplier arrears and has a major spillover effect on payment discipline in the entire economy. The
Government will securitize a portion of a net stock of budget arrears to energy suppliers by issuing
government bonds.
82.   To accelerate processing of, and improve control over, disbursement of budget funds, the
Government has made substantial progress in the expansion of the computerized treasury system of
accounting and direct payments. The volume of payments processed by the federal treasury has been
steadily increased through 1997, and as of September 30, 1997 the Government is processing 31 percent
of the monthly outlays of the federal budget through this system. In the context of a broader reform of
the budget execution system, the Government will during 1998: (i) develop a system with a single
Treasury account; (ii) transfer off-budgetary accounts of budgetary organizations to the Treasury; (iii)
issue regulations and streamline procedures of the Treasury system of budget execution, including
procedures for main distributors and end-users of budgetary funds; (iv) unify the information and
telecommunication systems of the Treasury; (v) serve budgetary organizations located in the regions
without federal Treasury branches by Treasury branches in neighboring regions; and (vi) prepare
quarterly reports on the transition of the Treasury system (Government Resolution No. 1082). The short
term priority will be the development of a procedure to strengthen Treasury control over payments to
energy suppliers by budget organizations and government agencies so as to prevent the unauthorized
reallocation of budget funds to other categories of expenditures and prevent the reemergence of new
budget arrears to energy providers. At the same time, budget allocations will provide sufficient funding
for financing energy consumption within agreed limits.
83.   The Government's fiscal reform program also includes a number of additional measures to
improve expenditure control and budget management. First, to establish a sound legal-institutional basis
for budget and treasury management, the Government and the State Duma have prepared a new draft
Budget Code that has been passed in its first reading by the State Duma in May of 1997. Its provisions
on budget responsibilities, comprehensiveness, unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc. provide
a solid basis for regularizing the entire sphere of budget operations and dramatically improving their
transparency and efficiency. The Government continues its work on the draft Budget Code to ensure its
passage for late 1997 or early 1998. Second, to reduce large off-budget expenditures that in the past
have hampered effective control and transparency in budget management, the Government decided to
consolidate the revenues and expenditures of all social extra-budgetary funds (except the Pension Fund)
in the federal budget. The Government's draft 1998 budget submission to the Duma includes the draft
budgets of the social extra-budgetary funds in parallel with the federal budget.



25
84.   Rationalize Government Spending. With the objective of fighting corruption and reducing
budget expenditures, Presidential Decree No. 305 was issued on April 8, 1997 to reform public
procurement procedures. The decree requires standardized, competitive, open, and nondiscriminatory
bidding procedures for all federal agencies. The Government has also submitted an appropriate draft
Law to the State Duma, which requires standardized, competitive, open, and nondiscriminatory bidding
procedures. Moreover, the Government made an a special effort to introduce competitive tendering for
all grain and food procurement for federal needs, and as of June 30, 1997, all grain and food procurement
using budgetary funds is subject to competitive tendering. The Government has conducted no less than
10 competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued in excess of Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.
85.   The Government has undertaken a number of steps to accelerate reforms in the housing sector
and to reduce the fiscal burden associated with housing subsidies, which are the single largest subsidy
item remaining in the fiscal system. The Government has set up a high-level Inter-Agency Commission
to oversee housing reforms, led by the First Deputy Prime Minister. The Commission has approved a
system of federal standards in housing policy that provides sub-national governments with explicit
benchmarks for reform implementation and budget savings. The Commission has worked out a medium
term plan for the preparation of Government decisions to accelerate sector reforms. As a result, average
housing (utility and maintenance) prices charged to households have risen by 10 percent in real terrns as
of the end of September 1997, compared to the end of 1996.
86.   Reforming Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. The Government's fifth major fiscal reform
objective is to improve the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations. The agenda for reforming sub-
national and intergovernmental tax, transfer, expenditure, and financing arrangements is highly complex
and politically controversial and represents a long-termn challenge-in Russia even more so than in other
countries given its size and recent history.  At the same time, issues of decentralization and
intergovernmental relations are at the heart of many of Russia's key fiscal problems, not least because
the success of tax and other budgetary reforms hinges on their fundamentally voluntary implementation
and enforcement at the regional and local levels. The current system of intergovernmental fiscal
relations is too expensive and inefficient. Too many regions are recipients of unconditional grants, and
the system does not provide a sufficient equalizing effect given the large fiscal imbalance among
regions. At the same time, the lack of alternative types of federal transfers, which would be disbursed to
regions on a conditional basis, reduces the federal government's leverage over regional reform efforts.
There is growing evidence that regional administrations do not fully implement federally designed and
mandated structural reforms. This is one of the reasons why the reform progress in such key areas as
housing, real estate and land market policy has been so slow recently. Finally, there is a need for further
clarification of tax and expenditure sharing within the regions because under current arrangements,
incentives at the municipal level to improve tax collections and look for expenditure savings are
inadequate.
87.    The Government has decided to undertake a comprehensive restructuring of intergovernmental
fiscal relations and has set up a Working Group of its Government Commission on Economic Reforms to
develop the reform program. The Working Group has developed a program for restructuring the current
system of federal budget transfers to regions for 1998-99. The draft Tax Code as well as the Federal law
"On Fundamental Financial Principles of Local Self-Governance in the Russian Federation" (adopted on
September 25, 1997), provide a new legal framework for intergovernmental tax revenue sharing. The
Government is planning to introduce amendments to the "Law on Fiscal Foundations of Local Self-
Governance" to make its sections concerning intergovernmental fiscal relations fully consistent with the
provisions of the Tax and Budget Codes.



26
88.    The Government's draft 1998 budget: (i) requires an increased concentration of federal transfers
among the most needy regions; (ii) reflects the recommendations of the Protocol of the Commission on
Housing Reform of July 22, 1997 and makes the level of equalization transfers to regions conditional on
compliance with federal housing standards; (iii) suggests the elimination of subventions to Moscow and
of traditional budget subsidies to the remote regions; and (iv) introduces a separate mechanism for ear-
marked federal transfers to regional Medical Insurance Funds. To support implementation of new
conditional arrangements in the transfer mechanism, the Government issued instructions in August, 1997
that specify rules and procedures for determining the level of adjustments in federal transfer volumes for
regions that do not comply with federal housing standards.
89.   In addition, by November 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution authorizing the
Economic Reform Commission to develop, by January 31, 1998: (i) the concept of reforming the system
of inter-budgetary fiscal transfers; and (ii) an action plan and implementation schedule, starting from a
detailed survey of the reform program (including consultations with regional bodies of executive power
and the State Duma), and stipulating its incorporation in the Government's draft budget for 1999. In
accordance with that resolution, the Government's concept of reforming the system of inter-budgetary
fiscal relations would include: (i) rationalization of the system used to classify regions into categories;
(ii) changing the criteria determining the amount of transfers (based on the assessment of the regional
GDP and/or fiscal capacity of the region, and standards, level and cost of provision of public services);
(iii) introduction of arrangements that would encourage regions to implement reforms in the budget
sector; (iv) introduction of conditionalities for transfers (including the implementation of satisfactory
independent audits of the budget and ensuring compliance with the federal legislation); (v) gradual
transition to the delivery of federal transfers exclusively through the Treasury system; and (vi)
introduction of special transfer arrangements for regions heavily dependent on federal transfers.
90.    The draft law regulating sub-national borrowing that had been submitted by the Government to
the State Duma in May 1997 has been passed in its first reading. With its passage and final enactment
remaining uncertain at this time, as of mid-November 1997, the Government has submitted to the Office
of the President a draft Presidential Decree to regulate sub-national Governments' external borrowing
through issuance of securities. The draft decree (i) requires, inter alia, borrowing sub-national
governments to comply with federal fiscal regulations; and (ii) includes monitorable ceilings on both the
total debt stock and the annual debt service flow of sub-national Governments. Until the relevant
regulation becomes effective, through either law or Presidential Decree, the Ministry of Finance will not
register international security issues by sub-national governments, and any such registration would
require, at a minimum, compliance with the conditions on sub-national borrowing by the regions of
Moscow, Nizhniy Novgorod and St. Petersburg outlined in Presidential Decree No. 304 of April 8, 1997.
Moreover, the federal Government continues to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by sub-
national entities.
E. Banking Sector Reform
91.    Context. The establishment of a vibrant and competitive banking system, which can efficiently
intermediate savings into investment, is integral to the development of the private sector in Russia.
Russia's banking sector is characterized by a proliferation of mostly small banks, low financial depth
(inflation has dramatically reduced its size relative to GDP), high costs of financial intermediation, and
growing financial difficulties in many banks including some large ones. In the period 1992-1995, the
number of banks grew enormously, and although consolidation has begun, around 2000 banks currently



27
remain in operation. Concentration in the sector is high: the 10 largest banks account for 50 percent of total
assets, and one bank (Sberbank) accounts for 70 percent of all household savings deposits. However, the
impact of the banking system on the real economy through lending has remained limited, both because of
its small size-bank assets as a share of nominal GDP declined to less than 30 percent during 1995-96-
and because many banks continue to orient their asset positions toward treasury bills, equity stakes in blue
chip enterprises, currency, real estate, and other more speculative holdings.
92.    While a temporary liquidity crisis in the interbank market in August, 1995 was handled effectively
by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), several large and many small banks are facing serious financial
difficulties. The root causes of the problem are unsustainable business practices (in particular excessive
reliance on short-term trading activities), risky and increasingly impaired asset portfolios, and low capacity
for credit assessment and the development of a core enterprise lending business. Banks also have weak
internal controls, undeveloped product and pricing policies, and excessive operating costs.
93.    The CBR, in coordination with the Government and the Duma, is pursuing an overall sound
reform program focused on: (i) putting in place an effective approach to dealing with illiquid and
insolvent banks (including bank bankruptcy legislation and prudent deposit protection), (ii) improving
bank regulation and supervision, and (iii) reforming the money markets and payment systems. It is
especially important at this stage for the CBR to continue moving expeditiously in identifying and
dealing with problem banks, while rapidly strengthening its on-site supervision capacity for large banks.
94.   Dealing with Problem Banks and Deposit Protection. The authorities' first objective in the
sector is to facilitate resolution of illiquid or insolvent banks and establish a prudent system of deposit
protection. The CBR intends to maintain its current policy of closing banks that are insolvent or banks
that do not comply with banking laws and regulatory acts of the CBR. The CBR and Government will
continue their policy of not providing public resources to weak banks, and will not provide for any
subsidies or privileges to facilitate takeovers or restructuring.
95.   International audits of the largest individual banks have now been conducted. However, the
capacity of the CBR to assess weaknesses in the banking sector and to take actions on problem banks
remains limited and is gradually being built up. The authorities' program incorporates defining criteria,
carrying out assessments, and developing institutional capacity to take action on problem banks. The
CBR has defined criteria for identifying problem banks and for determining whether affected banks are of
systemic or social importance. An evaluation of the 200 largest banks has been conducted according to
these criteria. Those banks with negative capital or other serious problems were notified in late February
1997 that they were required to prepare and submit to the CBR before April 30, 1997 plans for increasing
their capital and for their operational rehabilitation. Based on these plans, the CBR has made decisions on
the banks' rehabilitation, merger, sale, or closure-which are being implemented over time. CBR will
continuously monitor the implementation of the recapitalization and rehabilitation plans of the identified
problem banks. Should the recapitalization/rehabilitation fail to achieve its objectives, CBR will take
necessary actions including the withdrawal of licenses. Of the 27 identified problem banks in the top 200
banks, 10 banks have had their licenses withdrawn and a number of others have had their licenses restricted.
New problem banks may be identified through the CBR's on-going on-site inspections and future
evaluation of other banks.
96.   Until recently, there have been substantial gaps in the legal framework for closing problem
banks. As an interim measure, the Government and the CBR have worked with the Duma to modify
existing legislation to specify clearer and more streamlined procedures for withdrawing bank licenses
and for the subsequent timely liquidation of the delicensed institutions. The authorities have also been



28
working on more comprehensive bank bankruptcy and liquidation legislation. The CBR, in collaboration
with other agencies, drafted and submitted a bill to the State Duma on bankruptcy and liquidation of
banks, which passed its first reading in June. In this connection, various interests are lobbying for
deposit guarantee schemes that could evoke moral hazard behavior and impose high costs on the budget
or the CBR. The authorities have pledged to ensure that any guarantee scheme that is adopted has
prudent coverage of financial institutions and deposits and is self-funding. CBR will continue to build
up the necessary institutional capacity to ensure that the new legislation on the bankruptcy of financial
institutions can be implemented effectively once it is passed by the Duma.
97.   Prudential Regulation and Supervision. The second objective of the authorities' program. for
banking sector reform is to strengthen prudential regulations and supervision to improve control over and
reduce risks related to commercial bank operations. To this end, the authorities have undertaken or
intend to take the following measures:
*  Extending on-site inspection of the largest banks. In the first nine months of 1997, on-site inspection
of 68 of the 100 largest banks were completed. On-site inspection of the remaining banks will be
continued in 1997 and 1998, and CBR intends to extend the on-site inspection program to other
banks in the system.
*  Improving the system of prudential regulations established by Instruction I of January 30, 1996,
with a view to moving prudential regulations closer to international standards. The CBR has, inter
alia, revised procedures for calculating banks' own resources (capital); increased capital adequacy
requirements and lowered the tied credit ratio; and introduced necessary changes in the calculation of
banks' prudential requirement, with a view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and liabilities.
*  Introducing more adequate regulations and procedures for loan provisions. To this end, the CBR
has revised the procedure of making use of loan provisions, with a view to making the necessary
reserves in all cases where payment in full is considered unlikely (including in cases where loans are
not currently non-performing but where there are reasons to believe that the borrower is insolvent),
while not allowing banks' tax burdens to increase unduly as a result of these new provisioning rules.
Discussion on the implementation of these revised procedures is continuing with the Ministry of
Finance.
*  Moving toward a new plan of accounts for lending institutions based on international accounting
standards. A new chart of accounts has been approved by the CBR. The finalized chart of accounts
is to be applied by lending institutions as of January 1998. In July 1997, the CBR issued a draft of
the Methodological Guidelines for the consolidated reporting. Currently, the draft is being revised
with the aim of implementing the final rules in January 1999. In adopting international accounting
standards, the CBR aims at moving to accrual-basis accounting, although the speed of this shift
remains open at this time.
98.   Money Markets and Payment Systems. The authorities' third objective is to improve the
functioning of money markets and payment systems. Banking system efficiency and stability over time
will hinge on an improved mix of instruments to manage liquidity. To this end, the authorities will put in
place new monetary instruments and develop open market operations to give banks the liquidity
management tools available in other developed banking systems. Some steps have already been taken.
In March 1996, the CBR created Lombard facilities, on a pilot basis, for up to 30-days borrowing
collateralized by government securities. In October 1996, the CBR introduced two-day repurchase
agreements with primary dealers. The CBR also rationalized guidelines as of May 1996 for meeting



29
reserve requirements to improve within-month bank liquidity. During 1997 the CBR further developed
these instruments. In the third quarter of 1997, CBR issued draft regulatory documents streamlining
procedures to allow, on a regular basis, the establishment of Lombard facilities and one-day settlement
credits collateralized by government securities, and for putting in place the necessary arrangements for
banks to pre-deposit government securities in a special sub-section of the deposit account of commercial
banks. CBR will put in place an arrangement to allow primary dealers to take short positions in
government securities. It will also repeal the prohibition on the use by all banks of government
securities as collateral and ensure that mechanisms are in place to pledge collateral for same-day
transactions. Furthermore, CBR will take steps to establish an inter-bank repo market for a wide number
of banks in Moscow and in the regions. Measures will also be taken to facilitate retail investor access to
the government securities market.
99.   A high priority for the CBR is to ensure banks' timely access to liquidity during and at the end of
the day. This will improve the efficiency of the banking sector and minimize the number of payment
rejections, which should in turn reduce the possibility of contagion problems and promote effective
operations of the payments system. In addition, liquidity management is impeded by lack of quick
access to data on balances in banks' settlements accounts. Antiquated payment procedures also create
long delays in inter-bank settlements. To address these problems, the CBR is moving to provide
information to commercial banks on their within-day balances at the CBR and has introduced a multiple-
window settlement system in Moscow. In June and July, 1997, CBR issued normative concept papers
for the introduction of a real-time gross settlement system (RTGS) and for the development of the
settlements system respectively. An Action Plan for the implementation of RTGS was approved by the
CBR in September 1997. CBR aims to establish by January 1, 1998 an RTGS in the Moscow region.
Prices for settlement services will be introduced as of January 1, 1998.
F. Trade Policy Reform
100.   Context. Basic trends in Russia's trade policy have remained constant, and so far positive, over
the years of reform. Regulation of exports has become much more liberal than in early years of
transition, while on the imports side the Government has successfully avoided any major sliding towards
high protectionist barriers. The last of a dozen of export taxes -- on oil and oil products -- was abolished
in 1996, bringing to the end a long process of comprehensive elimination of previous export restrictions
(special taxes, reference prices, quotas, licenses, nomination of special exporters, contract registration,
etc.). The record for import regulation is more mixed. Beginning in 1996, import duties previously
above 30 percent were reduced to this ceiling, and there has been no major increase in import duty rates
over last two years. Moreover, in late 1997 the Government issued Resolution Number 1347, which
limited discretion in setting import duty rates and introduced a 10 percentage point ceiling on a one-time
revision of individual rates, as well as a six-month minimum interval between subsequent revisions. As
a result, the average import duty has remained unchanged at 15 percent since the last across-the-board
revision in the summer 1995.
101.  However, with the domestic currency appreciating in real terms over threefold since 1992,
domestic producers' pressure for protection against imports has been gaining momentum. Restrained
from adopting discretionary quantitative restrictions on imports by obligations undertaken under the SAL
program, increasing attention is being paid by the Government to protectionist options available in the
context of import safeguards, compensatory, technical and other restrictive mechanisms. In view of this,
the Government's compliance with internationally accepted procedures for introducing such restrictions
will become of crucial importance for preserving what liberalization has already achieved.



30
102.  Maintaining a Liberalized Trade Regime. Under the SAL program, trade policy commitments
have been made to prevent quantitative restrictions on international trade transactions. If protection
measures are necessary to prevent injury to domestic producers (of a product or close substitutes) from
imports, they will be price-based, precisely defined, temporary, and nondiscriminatory, and will be
introduced after appropriate procedures consistent with WTO rules are followed, and taking into account
the costs to consumers and users. Centralized trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and
defense-related equipment.  Trade under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements
guaranteed by the government will be conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices
at world levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Government
will refrain from operating any system of export controls under the disguise of mandatory monitoring of
quantity, quality, or price of exports. To meet these objectives, in August 1997 the Government
submitted to the Duma amendments to draft legislation to ensure that the emerging legal framework for
"trade safeguards" (anti-dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) will be in line with international norms.
103.  Harmonizing Standards with International Practice. As part of implementing revisions and
harmonizing Russian legislation, regulation and other measures, and insuring compliance of their
practical application with international standards and practices the Government issued Resolution No.
1037 in August 1997, which revises product labeling standards. Detailed information of what retailers
are to provide has been clearly specified, as well as the list of products subject to the regulation. The
classification system has been streamlined; and national treatment standards have been incorporated. In
September 1997, Government Resolution No. 1193 was issued that revises the system for marking
products to ensure against counterfeiting in line with international standards. The coverage of products
requiring such markings has been reduced and mandatory restrictions have been narrowed; the
certification process has been streamlined.
104.  Expanding Production Sharing Agreements. On July 8, 1997, President Yeltsin issued decree
No. 694 "On Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs)" ensuring rights and benefits of the Russian
Federation in implementing PSAs. In accordance with the Federal Law "On Sites of Natural Resources
Deposits Entitled for Use under PSAs" there are seven sites that can be developed in accordance with
PSAs. The sites include five oil and gas fields, one iron ore deposit and one gold mine. By December 1,
1997, the Government will submit to the Duma a draft Law on Expansion of PSAs to additional areas.
105.  Implementing a Market-Based System for Oil Transport. The Government has begun to put
into place a market-based (nondiscretionary and transparent) system for access to oil transportation
capacity in the Novorosiisk and other constrained pipelines. A regime has been implemented through
Presidential Decree No. 693 of July 8, 1997 and Government Resolution No. 1130, issued on September
2, 1997, in which access to additional pipeline capacity is allocated in proportion to total production.
This regime will be effective throughout 1998. However, oil producers will keep the right to trade both
main and additional access rights.
106.  Phasing Out the Oil Export for State Needs Program. All resolutions and directives covering
programs of export of oil and oil products for State needs were eliminated on March 16, 1997, except for
those under Government Resolutions No. 579 of May 14, 1996, No. 208 of February 28, 1996, and No.
736 of June 24, 1996. Under Presidential Decree No. 693 of July 8 and Government Resolution No. 988
of August 7, the Government abolished these oil export programs effective October 1, 1997.



31
PART III: PROGRESS UNDER THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
107.  The Board in May 1997 approved the CAS for Russia with expanded lending commitments up to
$3 billion annually, provided the Government delivers on an accelerated program of structural reforms.
Previously, Bank management endorsed the concept of two or more SALs as important vehicles to
provide support for such reforms. On June 5, 1997, the Board approved the first structural adjustment
loan for Russia (SALI), which was a single tranche operation. It was envisaged that SAL2 would be
brought to the Board in late 1997, provided the reforms supported by SAL I stayed on track and that there
was a credible policy package that would warrant additional support. Attachment 5 contains the Policy
Reforms Program Matrix, which describes the measures under both SALI and the proposed SAL2.
What follows is a summary of the progress under SAL1.
108.  All prior actions (conditions for circulation of Board documents) for SAL 1 were implemented by
mid-May 1997; SALI was approved, became effective, and disbursed in June. Strong commitment to
and "ownership" of reforms on the part of the authorities and a focused reform program have paid off in
terms of implementation of measures. The monthly meetings of the Structural Working Group under the
leadership of Minister Yasin have been critical in facilitating progress.
109.  More importantly, under the SAL framework, Bank staff are working closely with counterparts
and providing effective technical assistance in the key areas of (i) reform of natural monopolies (e.g.,
restructuring of RAO UES and developing pricing principles for natural gas); (ii) fiscal management
(e.g., reform of inter-governmental fiscal relations and budget management) and (iii) private sector
development (e.g., case-by-case privatization and land reform). Fostering implementation of reforms
through technical assistance is a key element of the SAL strategy. As a result, the authorities have
become increasingly engaged and are defining a sound reform program in the SAL-defined areas that
moves policy measures from the conceptual stage to adoption to implementation.
110.  In the area of fiscal management, SAL1 has supported actions across all major policy areas,
including tax reform, budget and treasury management, public procurement and intergovernmental fiscal
relations. It has assisted the Government to continue to implement and, as needed, expand its Revenue
Action Plan to strengthen tax collections while reducing the distortionary impact of the tax system. It
has supported plans to introduce a system of regular monitoring and reporting on tax expenditures
(resulting from remaining statutory and ad-hoc tax exemptions) and to further expand the capacity of the
federal treasury and take action to ensure the processing of a growing share of budget outlays through the
federal treasury system. Support has also been given for procurement procedures that are being
implemented in line with international practices, and related legislation has been submitted to the Duma.
111.  Under SALI the Government has increasingly pursued reform of natural monopolies. Good
progress has been made, although with differing degrees of success across the sectors. The authorities
are on track to adopt the medium term restructuring programs for each sector. They have also broadly
succeeded in establishing new pricing principles and procedures, especially in electricity, less so in
natural gas, and have just begun to do so in railways. However, there is still much work to be done in
translating these principles into specific, workable rate methodologies and schedules (particularly in the
case of natural gas and railway tariffs). In electricity, steps have been taken to improve the structure of
prices, by decreasing prices to industry and increasing prices to households. Establishing a wholesale
market for electricity is also proceeding. In natural gas, the authorities have established a "third party
access" decree that enables independent gas producers to gain access to Gazprom's transmission
network. In railways, cross-subsidization is being reduced by lowering freight tariffs and raising



32
passenger fares. The Bank is actively supporting these natural monopoly reforms through substantial
technical assistance to sector agencies and enterprises. Our dialogue and support program are most
advanced in the electricity sector (e.g., under the $40 million FY 97 Electricity Support Reform Project),
growing in gas, and beginning to develop appreciably in railways.
112.  Under the private sector development component, progress under SAL I was made in building an
institutional framework for case-by-case privatization through the promulgation of resolutions and
directives. However, in part due to conflicts among various interests within (and outside) the
Government, as well as operational difficulties, there have been delays in meeting the SAL 1 privatization
policy targets. The procedural, funding and political economy obstacles have been formidable and have
rendered impossible the tendering of the first four pilot privatizations by the end of the year as originally
envisaged under the medium-term framework outlined in SALI. GKI (now the Ministry of State
Property) formed an internal working group on case-by-case privatization and has authorized the Russian
Privatization Center (RPC) to serve as the project implementation entity overseeing the provision of
technical assistance for the four pilot transactions. The Bank is providing the RPC with support through
the PIAL (Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan) to fund partially such assistance. In other
private sector development areas, progress on drafting new bankruptcy legislation has proceeded ahead
of schedule. Good progress has been made on the preparation of legislation for land transactions. In the
area of capital markets, work has begun on the Government's action program to introduce generally
accepted accounting principles consistent with International Accounting Standards. Legislation to
improve the framework for the taxation of capital income was submitted to the Duma as part of the draft
Tax Code.
113.  With respect to banking reform, much has been achieved during SAL1, reflecting both the
commitment and capability of the CBR. Nonetheless, the banking sector continues to face serious
challenges as inflation and interest rate spreads fall further, and as opportunities for short-term, high-
return activities diminish. The key issues remain further improvements in banking supervision and
prudential regulation and the appropriate treatment of problem banks. Several of the measures supported
under the SAL program are technical in nature, but they represent important fine-tuning in areas such as
monetary operations and payment systems that are important to the efficiency and stability of the
banking sector.
114.  While not formally included in SALI, work began during supervision of SALI on incorporating
into the proposed SAL2 a trade policy reform component (see para. 121 below).
115.  To summarize, progress with reforms under SALI has been solid in the banking sector and
increasingly so in the area of fiscal management (from a very weak base). Commitment to reform in
natural monopolies has improved significantly. Under the private sector development component,
progress has been most pronounced in capital markets and land reform; establishing the institutional
framework for case-by-case privatization has proceeded well, although various policy and operational
impediments resulted in delays in meeting previously specified progran targets, which have been
revised.



33
PART IV. THE PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Rationale and Objectives
116.  Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Russia for FY98-99
recognizes that the Government has a window of opportunity, provided that the political situation
remains reasonably stable, to accelerate the pace of structural reform and restore strong and sustainable
economic growth. Provided that the Government demonstrates its commitment to accelerate the pace of
structural reform, the Bank Group would be prepared to respond with an accelerated program of policy
advice, fast-disbursing adjustment lending, and project financing in support of high priority public and
private sector investments. Given the near term fiscal pressures on the Government, the Bank would be
prepared to provide on the order of $1.2-2 billion annually in fast-disbursing adjustment lending for the
next two years. Such adjustment lending would include: (i) SALI and the proposed SAL2, which are
closely coordinated with the IMF's EFF program, to address key reforms in private sector development
(including banking sector and natural monopoly reform) as well as fiscal issues relating to the
sustainability of the financial stabilization program (tax reforms, budget management, inter-
governmental fiscal relations); and (ii) free-standing SECAL operations addressing issues such as social
protection, coal sector restructuring, and agriculture reform. Beyond the immediate reform agenda, a
possible second round of SECALs could address issues such as energy pricing and taxation, longer-term
pension reforms, and/or strengthening of regional and local fiscal management. In addition, the Bank
Group would be prepared to support investment lending on the order of $1 billion or more annually, with
emphasis on the promotion of structural reforms at the regional and local level, mobilization of private
sector investment, and high priority operations in environmental management and institution building.
117.  The proposed SAL2 is fully consistent with the Bank's CAS and, if successfully implemented,
would provide the basis for additional fast-disbursing operations over the next two years to deepen the
reform program in the key areas of private sector development, fiscal management, reform of "natural"
monopolies, banking sector reform and trade policy reform.
118. Economic Justiflcation for Adjustment Lending. The economic justification for the proposed
SAL2, and more generally for enhanced Bank adjustmnent lending to Russia over the next two to three
years, is two-fold:
a) Support of structural reforms. Russia has now achieved reasonable price and exchange rate
stabilization and entered a new stage of transition where broad and consistent structural reforms are
essential for the resumption of growth and sustained stabilization, both of which are necessary to
help reduce poverty and address other pressing social issues. The Bank's program in Russia is
assisting the authorities in identifying and implementing the key structural actions that will
contribute most effectively to growth, the maintenance of stabilization and addressing social
concerns.
b) Contribution to fiscal adjustment and budget financing. Although Russia's trade and current
accounts consistently show a surplus, federal tax revenues have fallen to less than 10 percent of
GDP, and expenditure management is poor--despite sequestration to contain expenditures. Under the
proposed SAL2, the Government is taking steps to improve revenues and rationalize expenditure
management. The first and proposed second Coal Sector Adjustment Loans also support reductions
in expenditures. However, the main benefits of structural reforms for overall fiscal management, for
which revenue increases are key, will only materialize over the medium term. Meanwhile some



34
measures under the proposed SAL2 (such as reducing arrears and moving to an accrual basis for tax
assessment) are likely to increase expenditure pressures or reduce revenues in the short term.
Consequently, even with strong efforts at fiscal consolidation, the Government will continue to have
considerable financing needs for the budget in the short termn. Financing these deficits by issuing T-
bills (GKOs) is still expensive, and maintaining price stability will require continued tight domestic
credit, thus precluding any significant borrowing from commercial banks. The Government is thus
seeking financing from external, non-inflationary sources, including multilateral institutions and the
Eurobond market. As part of this financing package, World Bank adjustment lending would provide
additional non-inflationary budgetary support during the next stage of economic transition, providing
breathing space while structural reforms help strengthen the Government's revenue base and reduce
expenditure pressures.
119.  Strength of the Policy Package for SAL2. SAL2 is focused on economy-wide reforms that have
an immediate impact on macro-fiscal balances and are critical for renewed growth in Russia. The third
column of the Policy Reforms Program Matrix (Attachment 5) shows the core set of reform measures
supported by SAL2 -- those that have been completed between the presentation of SAL I to the Board
and the presentation of SAL2 to the Board (the fourth column of the matrix outlines SAL2's medium-
term measures; see para. 123 below). Overall, the reform measures in the proposed SAL2 -- covering (i)
private sector development, (ii) reform of "natural" monopolies, (iii) fiscal management, (iv) banking
reform and (v) trade policy reform -- comprise an ambitious structural reform agenda.
120.  Most of the SAL2 measures were developed earlier as part of the medium-term framework laid
out in the SALI package and timed deliberately as policy targets for the period following Board
consideration of SAL1. As the review of follow-through on SALI shows, aggregate implementation has
been broadly satisfactory, although the state of play across sectors is uneven (see Part III above). This is
reflected in the proposed SAL2 measures for different sectors. Some medium-term policy targets
foreseen under the SAL1 framework were revised for SAL2 to reflect slippages. This is most
pronounced in the area of the new pilot case-by-case privatization program, where original--and highly
ambitious--December 1997 targets have been revised to more realistic July/August 1998. Although this
delay is disappointing, it does reflect the authorities' efforts in attaining greater "ownership" of a new
privatization regime that is transparent and competitive. Thus the focus has begun to turn to improving
the process and outcome of privatization (enhanced in part by a Bank-sponsored high-level workshop in
July 1997 in St. Petersburg) rather than to the pace of particular transactions; indeed the strength of the
Government's commitment to transparent and competitive privatization, if anything, has intensified in
the latter half of 1997.
121.  At the same time, new measures have been included in the proposed SAL2 that would advance
the reform agenda. In areas such as fiscal management and "natural" monopolies, where reform progress
has been strongly improving, SAL2 would aim to deepen the gains; for example, further steps to
strengthen budget management through shifts of cashflows onto the treasury system or to ensure more
extensive customer access to the distribution grid in the emerging wholesale electric power market.
Other new measures in the proposed SAL2, such as reducing government arrears to suppliers, carrying
out pilot bankruptcy cases, developing an action program for the introduction of independent audits of
enterprises, and trade policy measures are important to address serious bottlenecks in the economy
and/or introduce market-oriented incentives. With respect to trade policy reform, the proposed SAL2
would provide for the implementation of measures that are important not only in their own right but also
for the Russian Federation's process of accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Steps would
be taken to bring the emerging legal framework for "trade safeguards" (anti-dumping, countervailing



35
duties, etc.) more in line with international norms. The legal framework for production sharing
agreements (PSAs) would be modified so as to expand the coverage of areas under which PSAs are
applied. In addition, product labeling standards would be revised and brought into line with international
practice. The certification procedures for insuring against product counterfeiting would also be made
WTO-consistent.
122.  The proposed SAL2 (like SALI) has been prepared in parallel with the EFF program in the
context of an intensive tripartite dialogue between the World Bank, the IMF, and the Russian authorities.
As a result, the Government's structural reform program is reflected in the Letters of Development
Policy for SAL1 and SAL2 (Attachment 4 contains the Letter of Development Policy for SAL2) and
the Statement of Economic Policies for the EFF. This close collaboration between the Bank, the IMF,
and the authorities has helped to strengthen substantially the content of the Government's structural
reform program. As noted above, the proposed SAL2 also provides a crucial vehicle for intensive
technical assistance to the Government both in the detailed design and in the implementation of measures
under the program.
123.  Roadmap Beyond SAL2. The SAL loans are designed to support an on-going phase of reforms
that at this stage can be seen lasting at least until the end of 1998. They provide a framework for timely
completion of reformn measures (in the forn of prior actions) and a vehicle for effective implementation
requiring the completion of a work program of critical intermediate steps supported through technical
assistance. To date, the detailed reform agenda for the medium-term of SAL2 has been specified only
through early-mid 1998 -- see the fourth column of the Policy Reforms Program Matrix (Attachment
5) -- since the complete 1998 program for structural initiatives will be finalized in concert with the IMF's
1998 EFF program in late January/early February 1998, following completion of the end-1997 review.
Depending on the progress in implementing SAL2, a third structural adjustment loan (SAL3), to be
prepared in coordination with work on the Fund's 1998 EFF program, could support implementation of
follow-on actions in the same cross-cutting areas to be supported by SAL2.
B. Benefits and Risks
124.  Benefits. The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to accelerate and deepen
a broad range of structural reforms, some of which were initiated under SALI and the EFF program. As
discussed above, the reforms supported are critical to sustaining macroeconomic stabilization and
stimulating renewed economic growth. The substantial amounts of low-cost, non-inflationary budget
financing provided by the proposed SAL2 would confer large financial (debt service) savings as well as
significant economic benefits (lower domestic borrowing, lower interest rates, lower inflation, higher
investment, and ultimately higher growth). The reforms supported under SAL2 would help increase
efficiency across a wide range of sectors by helping create the conditions for a more competitive and
open private sector-oriented economy. Moreover, they would help provide for the emergence of a
healthy banking sector and for the adoption of a tax regime that adequately finances public goods and
services without creating distortions or negative incentives for private-sector activity.
125.  The joint SAL/EFF process has already generated considerable benefits by assisting the
authorities to articulate an integrated program with complementary macroeconomic and structural reform
priorities. These benefits would be significantly enhanced over the course of the next year by regular
supervision missions, during which Bank specialists would work closely with the authorities and Fund
specialists to help carry through and build on the key reforms being supported. It would be during the



36
supervision process that Bank and Fund staff would help the authorities elaborate the next stage of
reforms for 1998 and beyond.
126.  Risks and Mitigation Measures. The Bank's program in Russia faces substantial political,
economic, and institutional risks, which are discussed in detail in the CAS. The CAS concludes that
these risks can be partially mitigated by monitoring the reform program closely, using self-regulating
triggers linked to progress on reforms, and strengthening non-lending services and knowledge
dissemination in support of the reform process. The same general risks and mitigation strategies apply to
the proposed SAL2, which is clearly a "high-risk-high-reward" operation. As demonstrated by the
implementation of SALI, on the one hand, the financial and technical support to be provided under the
operation is clearly essential to the success of the reform agenda. On the other hand, even with this
assistance, there is no certainty that the Government will successfully implement its reform agenda.
127.  A review of the experience with previous policy-based lending in Russia helps to evaluate the
specific risks of the proposed SAL2, and it also suggests certain additional mitigation measures.
Rehabilitation Loans were made to the Russian Federation in 1992 and 1995, and ICRs for both loans
have been completed. A Coal Sector Adjustment Loan was made in 1996 and has only recently
completed implementation. More importantly, as discussed in Part III earlier, SAL1, which was
approved in June 1997, has been implemented satisfactorily. Certain lessons emerge from these
operations.
128.  First, although substantial progress was made in structural reforms (especially price and trade
liberalization), the experience under both Rehabilitation Loans indicated the importance of a stable
macroeconomic environment for reform  in many key areas.  Under Rehabilitation I, enterprise
restructuring was delayed by the expansion in directed state credits and the continued input subsidies,
and reforms in the financial sector were postponed because of the unstable monetary situation. Under
Rehabilitation II, revenue pressures led to rapid growth in oil exports "for state needs", which limited the
effectiveness of measures to liberalize oil export procedures.
129.  The proposed SAL2 supports key structural measures in the fiscal management and banking
reform areas. In addition, the EFF's fiscal and monetary policy programs are expected to continue
reducing inflation and achieving a viable fiscal deficit, including through tight controls over fiscal
subsidies and credit expansion. Nonetheless, because of the challenges the Government faces, especially
with respect to fiscal adjustment, there remain major risks associated with macroeconomic instability.
This risk is compounded by the recent turbulence in international currency markets, which began in East
Asia but has been affecting the Russian economy (as well as other economies outside East Asia). The
proposed operation will help to mitigate this risk not only through its strong fiscal management measures
and the resources it will provide to Russia's economy, but also through close coordination with the IMF's
ongoing EFF program.
130.  Another lesson is the importance of a high intensity of supervision to ensure that the reforms are
implemented properly and maintained over time. As many of the reforms are complex, supervision
missions need to be staffed to provide detailed technical assistance as necessary. In addition, due to the
increasing political sensitivity of many of the reforrns as vested interests begin to become more
entrenched, supervision missions are required to focus attention on the necessary measures at high
political levels. This risk will be mitigated by the fielding of frequent and regular missions in
conjunction with the Fund to evaluate progress under SAL2 and the EFF. These missions will be
coordinated with ongoing non-lending and lending activities in the areas addressed under SAL2.



37
131.  Finally there is the risk that, despite best efforts, the measures supported under SAL2 will not be
followed through adequately into 1998. However, the authorities' implementation capacity, while still
weak, is clearly improving, and the close collaboration with the IMF under the SAL/EFF framework will
provide frequent occasions to monitor progress. Many of the SAL2 measures do not lend themselves to
evaluation by quantitative indicators. Nonetheless, Bank staff have developed jointly with the authorities
a set of quantitative and qualitative indicators against which the impact of SAL2 and related EFF
measures will be assessed.
C. Coordination with the IMF
132.  The proposed SAL2 has been developed in very close collaboration with the IMF to ensure
consistency and complementarity between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms. At the
request of the Government, Bank staff began working with Fund staff and the Government in early 1995
to develop the structural components of the Fund's Extended Fund Facility for 1996, which was
approved in March 1996. Since then, Bank staff have participated in monthly and quarterly monitoring
missions with Fund staff to evaluate progress in implementing the structural agenda under the EFF.
Since June 1997, implementation of the structural reform agenda has also been monitored closely
through the supervision of SALI and the preparation of the proposed SAL2. The design of the proposed
SAL2 builds on that close collaboration. Specifically, the policy content of the Government's reform
program supported by both the SAL2 and the 1997 EFF has been elaborated in intensive tripartite
discussions between the Bank, the Fund, and the authorities-with Bank and Fund taking the lead in the
structural and macroeconomic areas, respectively, but the close coordination and collaboration giving
rise to substantial synergies.
133.  During July/August 1997, the IMF completed its Fifth Quarterly EFF Review, and on September
3, 1997 its Board approved quarterly disbursement. However, at that time, IMF staff noted that revenue
performance and fiscal consolidation were increasingly fragile in Russia. During the Sixth Quarterly
EFF Review in October 1997, the IMF mission found that although almost all macroeconomic indicators,
monetary policy and structural reforms were in line with the EFF program, fiscal policy was significantly
off track--based on the fact that the January-September performance criterion on federal government
cash revenue was missed by a large margin and that the cash deficit target was met only at the expense of
continued large spending arrears. As a result, the Fund mission decided to not recommend completion of
the Review. The IMF mission held extensive discussions on a strategy to put the fiscal situation in order.
The discussions will be continued in early-mid-December, with the involvement of Bank staff.
Together with work on defining a realistic 1998 macro-economic program, as well as continuing
development of the 1998 structural agenda, this will be the basis for defining further IMF support to
Russia.
D. Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision
134.  Prior Actions for Circulation of Loan Documents to the Board  Box I presents the prior
actions that the authorities have undertaken as a condition of circulation of the loan documents to the
Board. In addition, the authorities have taken various other measures as part of its broader structural
reform agenda supported by the proposed SAL2.



.                 .           .

138
1
.:. ::: :::: -.1- .... - ....'..,..I...".........,...,.,..I ............ .. - -.:.::::: :X:-X::- .::::.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::,:: .. - - --
._ 1. .. ...... ,. `.,  - . . ,-::::::---:-:::X--::]:: .... ... ......... ..-..'.....,.-._..._.. 1:1 .: - -:::: - -,
.-.. .. .. ..I..1. ::::::::::: ::..
.1''..''. l I 1: ... .:, I.. I "..,. I  I - -.1., -'. I - -, -.. --... I ".... - I..,... 
,
.1 ..... ........... .. .. I..... .. ,:x- :.1pX......_-.l...... I... .. - .
... . .. ..I... 1.11 .... .-... :::::: ...- ........................ ::
:::::Xx:::::::-:,x::-: :-
............-.1--. ... I... .. .... .l.w.lu, i 'A' Q` P''Af'944pxm$rMSOA"VIRCVLAI".,...'....,....,....,..,..,..,..
.... :]::;::::::]::::::]::::::::::;::::
..'.....,.,......,,'...'......."..I ..... 11, -: .:.,-
.- -.--._--_ ...... ................. .. -_ ... ..,,:: :: X: :: ::: .:::: -:,: -::: : :
......,.I.I.I.I........".....I..I.I.I....,.'.............,......."...... :::::::::::::::::::::::::.:..::::.,.:::::::.::::::::::: " , ..... ,F.
__11 .. ........ I---- ::-::::::-:X:X:-::::: ............................... _-__-,..::,: :::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::.:::::::::::-.-I.......-l-,
:::::::::::::: ::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::......-.-,. ....................... ,.: ... _,,_., ........:....... ..... __-, ............... "I .... ..-..... 11.1 ..... .....-.....  ."...",.,........"......,...
...%,........,.,..,..,........,...........,.".,........,......"..'....,..'.,..I....".......,.".,......,.....'"..,..,.....".....................'.........."..,....,......"."...,.,'...,.....,.''..........!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;:::::::::,:::::::-,:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
......-"'...."l-"....'.I ----. .................. .......... ....... .............. ............-............. ..... . '' . . ..-............  - - ... ...
__ -- ... -- ............ ''..I- ----- ---- ....... _11-1, .......I....I. .. .......... .. ..... ... _..
:: - -- :: .:.: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: , .,-,......"............::::::::::::-:.:.::::::::::]:::::::::::::::::::::::]:''..::::.:::::::::::]::::::::!:::::::::.:......,,..
,....'.__ ...... - -_ .. ............I............ '' . . -.:........ -1 ....... ...,.,-l,_._,.- -.-I....''.1 ......... :.- .-1
.. ... ............ _-.-..,_ ............. .............. :.::"-:-::: ...."...,..,..........,.....'...,....'..,.,.,..,..,...,.'..I :: : -I------ -.. "l-l''."'...-
-.. . ........:. - .... ___ -_.l...-..l-. : I,,- :: 1.11.......,.''...I..,..''...".
... .1 ...........-... ____ ................. _:.: .....,..".....,..,.",,.........'............I..'......'I ..... ..... .. .. 11.11.1 -::X:::::; ::: :
..1-1 .....I..... ... _.-11.1'...l.., ... I :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::]:::::::: I  :::: : :: :-
....A.0. '' I., ........ ........ ..l..__ ........ ......
... ..wA" .".....,....................',.,....'..,..,.,....,...,..,.,........".,.'.......',......:::.::::::::::::::::::::::::..,....."...............,.........''..,.......
... _'. *.._l'.......,..l-.- ... ".....,..,.".....wo".,.,.-.......,.-,'.......,"-.."."".''...'.".,.,.".,.,.,..,.,."",.-,:..,,.,. ------ -... . ........ ____.. ____ _--.1- . - __- -1-:XV: :::::: :::: -.
- -_. -1 ....-....  __- -I _1111- I'll., -1-1-11-11 11 ..... I... I I I... - 111.
.....,.......,.....,..,........,.'..........I.I...........,..,..I.....,.""."........"I ....... .1.........I.I....'.11"...I.,..".. . I..... ............-... :::::::]:::.:::::::::.::]:::.::]::,::::: ::: :!: .:
-.. ...... -1--l'...- ....... ........ ..... ........ ..... .. - ............... ...... :::X:]:::::::::::::::,::::::
1-1.11-I.- -..... .-1 ....I............. .1, ..... .:.:.:,:.:.:::::::::::::::::--:::::..:;.......,......,........,..,..,.'...,,..'.,,.,.".,.",.:,:.:,:.]:.:::: -:: --...... - ''--,::::...-.......,...
....,.I.I...,".".,..".,...,."...."'.........,...........".,.........,..,..,......I.....:::::::::!:::::::::]::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::''"'', ...I-...... l..l..,.,
..... ........... .. .. .....,.. ........ :::::::::-;::::-:: . . ............. ..... :::::::::::, .... ..... -.1.1.1 ....
.1 ..... ..... ..I.............. ::::::::::::::-::::::::::-- ...............................;......'.1,1.,....''.,.."..,.....I .......... , ..,...''..,..."...,::::..,.,...I."......,,,'....,.,.''.,.......".:.:.:.:...,...,.".,...,...'.
.....I..... ......I..... I.I..''. - .....1-1-1-1-1-1- I_- ............ ..... .:,:.::::;::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::,..I ......... ......................... ...... .......... .
....................... ........... .-_-_ .... __ .................._..... .. .11. I.... 11.1 ..... .11 ... I---- ....I.. . ..... ..... ._ ..... -_-_- - -.-.l.----_- ''..'.... ......
:.-:: :: ;-::,.--,.:- `,:-.-.,.,......,..l .............. ... ... __ ........I.... 11 ....... ___ ... ..............._. . .. ..... .. ................ .11.1 .....,
.'j - - - .. - .. - --1-1--l-14.1'.. - - ____.,- 1.11.11.1.-
"..1-1- M_ ,1,.. .,::': ...O..e I..... _---- ....... 11 .... ..I.. .. ..-
--4,-........ ............"...... -.. . ....,___.-F "..._$.
,
,,
I1.11.. .. . I Ovmmm:.:x:v04w..t..OM I _#.._'l
:1 .., ..
,-,,. SU i .. to:.Vreate'.Awlnd .' do: ,t F' to '" .. the.:Wh IW. wtvi , ,
:,!01.::: m H. fWASAs W.
:.-::X: ....... .. ..... ..Iqm 0-.
.-:::: .... ............... ..... .... m:-::::::,:.v.:-- . ...... ",V...........''..., eS4_;)P. 01 ! p-
I---- ....  -1 ..... -.-x.:,x:::: .-Y
.. ...... .. .:.::::: .::::::: ,., .l......l........, ... I - I:,:... .... .. - ::-F:_.- -.-_.--__--...... _'...._'..
..... ..''..,....- ...._.....I................. ......... ... - ... .. . ..... ....... ....... ::..
.... 1-1-1.1--- .. .::-.......
Ih.-N io, - isqw:
:: I. ..
.                       ..    ..    .                                                                                                                                                                       ..                                                      .  ..
,:,,,"' . ..:::e,tSU :irv
_.
..'.,-,, d h'' di A& WU; mt
i i'. "-.N, e. , --:iA an xl aran : :f, t.....
,.i- g:. e.::tdfthlp : a e q!pl :p"qn ...... I .1.
m.. .th .. . .Oa: an ag: rec , s! is : en: bf:-a.
...,.,......,.".......,........................,.....'......:,..,.,......'....:..........'..... 4, . I..  I  I............ I ..... ...........
..."...''. .. I------ ..... ... .... . ..... ,...... ,b...,..,.....,-. - ....  I.....,..,.".......,....................... .'l_...--..._.... ...,__,..- ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::,...: , : : : : : : : :A :::: - :: : : :
..... .. I.. .. ,.,--:.. "-..'.....'.....'.."....., I.,....,.,. I. ............ .......,,, I... .. I..   I .i...b._'..._.
.I.,.,
.....,.,.,
...,.::.
..to  WU MO.:.'D. KIM .
........  -. Im .. _ - ... , 46 ,A ts: (I
...-.111. . .
.......... .ir...__'.." 'r .. _,0: :"' Afivo
le' '00  p. '. a' fi*:,:, . se.:'U& S.....O.  m! Jet, 0 : I..
.::Amu ffIW-h "::e,Mmrka,'..ql '' ,f'" th ad
.uc :. Or", '''.... .,
.. 1. . ...,t
,Pse X_ .. ___- I. .. " ....,..-: . 1:
... '' . ... ...,.,..........,.,....."..,..I........'. .. I.. 1. ..  1. . 1-1. :.,
::::::::::::::::: :::::... :.. , ,.. _".,.... __ ___..._, ". .....-  m
--_-- ....I...  111-1-1- .".....1.1 :- ... _-7,:p .: I...'.-..- . .-......'...........
:... h- ..... .. -- .. .. ... ..... :::: ::::::::: -- I...... .....F. -...  --_ ...  I.... .... .I..... -- _--_ -.----.'...: ......... .:.:...-:. - _.- ... .1.1.1. I------
.1,.... .. 11:: .11.1 ...I... _.,...:::v _ , ''.........- ...... .- __._-_-_.. __-- .... .. - ---_-_-..., - ''..
::w:ftavdrtgn't. ,.....,..............,....,, .... -....l.... 1. I---- ..
:-'' - I.... - - .......-- . 1. -1 ....... . ...... ...... - .-.-....-.-,-..- - ..., ...'..'... .... ,, ..,.. .."...'..'..".."...... --_ .. , ,
mza: OM, poppon: I I-...-... .,.-..- -.1 :::::: X. ::: X: ]:::::::: ::::: "...'......l."....". , -.-.., ........  I - ,- -.1 ---., 
 , ).,,........--. ..... ..-I.. ..
.. ......-:_ ... , _-. ....... : ;.11.1-1- ..... I_--- .... 1-1...''.l."....l.l." .... 1111111:1:I:-
:-.:":_- :.:...-.,.....l.l.'.....'.. - .., .. ..........,..........".....,'...,.,.,.....,..,.'',..,......,...,...''........'''.,'.....,'....I.....""..,.,,....'..,.:.''.]:::,:::l::]]il.,:]:]..''..,. , .:.:,::.:...,:".,.....",.,.,,.,..,..,.,....,.,.......,.,.,.....,.,.,,.,....,..,."......,..,.'',..........". .-.1'.'. ,  I I-- ,'......,,.....'........ I. .. ...
,. ,...........I............ .-1 ..... -__ .... ..... --.1--l-1. __ ... .. ..... . .....  - - -. .. ...
.. ._ . . .. -.1-1....... -......--. .   1. -.. II ... '..."".."...."".,.,'.. .::::::: :::X:::: ::::  :::: : -.: : -.11--.1.. II :.: :,:::::::,::]:::: ..... -..., _..'.. . I - I - _,,. I , , . ... .. I---- __ , I .1 .. ... ----... ....'.....1-1..
.1. I 1. -  , .,....._... ,.ll".....I..,...'.1.1.".....,....'I ... :::.: .:... --- ..... ...... ."...... ... ..... .. ......-
I.... .-.- ... ..... .....  -.1 I.I.-'',.,.........."..'....'.1,'I.I..... .... .. .... ....... ......... .-1-1 ... ..I.l ...... ... ..... -._ . ..... . , - . ... -
-     ..i:i                                                                                                                               _          .,:,._    ._.         -...........  .........    ....    ..........   ..........  - _ _                                                                                                                               _        _       _ _       ..... _        __             . .-         ,             ,,:: --....  __  .  ....
:.1.I.1. .tl.,-,,.......,....,.....,.,...".:,:i::.,... '... 1. 1.  - 
.: ,  .-I.-.1 -mm"l--- "_d`ffi e- fililb,tw,
!:   liii.4tdliis:Uw    dli -.-                                                                                            l.I_.. -''i C r'C'elon   :,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...
... .l.. . .-.. lffi t di at w' holesale. .. .... ..
:::::::::-::- :: ....... :,. .. I..... I 9 PqRMAQAQVoCmW: ... A.  .... ........... 1. wga&Pfjc.e: 1.1pr. MR..'. 0  gon'..
...... . ...... ,..:::::::::::a.]:.::.:::.:.": .......... ...... ....I...,::::-.,...............'....,....'.,.,..,..
.. . . ,.... .1 ....... ... .---.1,11 .. ...  _.. .. . ......-........ ..... ........ .,...
-_*_ . .4-::_.:,:.,4,.b:.w.:_ . ..... ... --,......l...: ..... ,.".....'-, -....... . .......I.......I.... ''...l....'..''. I.... 1-1.1- 
. ,.:.:,,, .. I------ ....-... -....l...-_.....l.
..  ..., ---i'..,2 I.... .I I.....
,  .                           . .''...- .... 1 .1-1-M                                             .                                                                             %        ----,tl'.._.                                                                                                 -I---                                                                                                                  , ..   ....I.....    ..... -.  -    ,. .....  - ..   .::::., :
.......l -:1mI.-.1-1-11.1 I.- - 11
-I......--AMMUM, -W ..; ...-1. -i- 4 7., --. .1
...-:- -  munum"au  i ,pplF,plAu An. rW..iMj.lD4t.1 W...IMiffiw*m I., 997--
.. :x:X:,.::::: '.."'....., .. I......I. ..... I........... . I I.-" . .... - - - -C :.. .1 . .11..-..l.....l-.l.... I-: X::: .:::::: :::: 1:-....,.----: .,.. :. 5 V:_ ... :.: . : : --........l . ...... -.... I........ I. . .... I---_ X.  .
.. -:::::-;,:::::_:::::-- -::: ::: ::. :..............".,...."......' .... . ... ...I.... ............ I., ...... _...,.,......,,-: ..... 1"... _._-._..... ..... I I....
I                                          _     -         I.- I. ..1- 11.   I...                         :: ::: :                                                      :::]:'::::::::..:::::::::::
..--. I I.. .  I..... . ::::;::::::.::: 7::::::]::]:::::::::]:::;::::::::::: :: ]::: : w:X:: XV ::X: :x::;:: a:X.x:,]:, ::]:-:, :::.::..:. .::.:::: :".:::!:::,:,::, ::::::!::::,".,.,. I-.. %- I.,- - -, 1, -,  . .....I.1-1,
XXX, - ::: 1:: ..... 1. - ... -_-..-l-----...-.- I------ -- ..... .....-.... .. .. : . . ......".::, . ..... . __ -.... - ,-I-. . . '...,.... .. I .... 1. ....
.... .,__-_. _-.... - . ''I'l -:; ::::,.,,-......
-...... ..... . .. . .....,___ .... . ...... ....1-1. .. I.. 11.1--.11- -_ __. ,.
.. , ::- _ _ __ -..... %:S:::%:.:f],:..:.:,:, ..::::::::: ::: ::_
.. i-'. .M. ,.   ''.. --. I .:.:j.6-..--- ..... 1-1- - 1.1-.1.......I.I....',:::::::`::: ----_-.--_...
'.1-11 ..... --- ...  I I------  -1-1-11--
.. .. ___ 0 ---
,                                -               _..,                                                                                                                                       ...                              .-I......I...... ---.._ ..l.-l.l,                                                                                                                          1-- -l--                                                                        ...
.,, . . :.- W dlotal.
,-._.W%S.:?:Ou_.,
.ov.ernfi .:I,: dfWOW 4evenues; IVI.
.- . ...
.- I .- .1. .1 ....: ...-. . .... P lem i ex,:. :, J, I,..... ::::: e.0....1191", ked . V4v ...... _.lbf .db.
I.., I.., ..... ::..:17. QUC_g!w. -.-.. ..........."....'' . .......1.I. - .1
.l...." __ ........ I., ...... .:.:.x.w::.._ ... :..-1.1-1-1.,,e_ .'y
._.................... I,, ::::: ... ..:.].,: .....-- .1 ,...-.,...."., ,. ..,.
.1. - 1.1-11--.11 .... .. I---- I-- I---. .....I..... .... 6...i...ilb..:. 1. 1 !::!X, :.. __, , _ 11 ... I 111.11.1111.1-1----l'I
I-..,.,.,..,....."-.,.,..."-:,.Ib'I ................ --- ........ ..... .. ,.,..,.,,,.........""'....... ..-.-.-...   ',.. .-,".
.1_.......................I. ..... I .........
.....I.. ....I.....I.... t., ...... -1.-
,. ,.. .............. .....l...W... 't- .........
,'-UC 10. M:*-:elmt
:..
.'M5W' eiwiv.: . ._vipwS " w-mbeI4997. ',M
.:  ' :: . 1,61hete :Aiy .pqrqqn. x xiaMV:i::::V ese,:re 1.
-11.111 .1,_.. pm .. Nns
.."ar....,.,.".,......,.".......,..,..,........... ___ ,...P,..r .... ..1-T.1 ---
.... .. 1. - ...1-1-1. 1. ... .. M., . ::.::: :......,,,,.,......,,,.,......,,,.,,.,.,,,..,,,.......,,.,....,,.,,.,...,,,.,.
.11 .... ---., ... 1.11-1-1- -..... ...''.- .1 .....I......-......I.... -1-11.1-1 . ....I.....-... ''.. .11.1 ....I...I............ --- 1. - i., ,:.:,.,...__.,.1 .
,-.,..... I..,1. I'll
... 1,..
I:-.
..'f _.._,, ,W: ': fi:"t" .%rPM.0
....,.."....'...,.........."....,.,."........,.., .....-..... ..... :X::::::i.:,::-:-:, ..... __ ... '__ ..... .............. ...- I. .......................... .......... -1.1-1, .-
-I cmI-11.
'..:
. -_-14 q;y. . ..Af.
- ..
....-; -ratesi:are:b. - ' : . ,.
,:iib ::: Vas x0i... d"U:Vqg'  uma jnk:::: p
...,.,..,..........,.........".g', ,.. , ,. 4m iw ....__
::X-l ........ ::.XX::::.. mpw.. . ....W....-An
........"."..,.,'..'...,'...--- .... #M:,:: ......... -- , ::.Cos.._:::
''. ,. lpm::, U i g: - r,:::
-:i i_l.w,_... .........."....I...I..,..,...,..."",..,...'.1.11.,....1.11 . . .... I...............'' ..... .. I -_- - I - k:: ;. ..i - .: X_..._._. -..... ....
1, -, - ...... .- :.:.:.:.:Ii::....,a:.:::......",'. ... - ::: ::: ::.
-.1., .-&.1-1-1 .... -_ ... -__ ..... -.l....''...I.I.- ..... ..
-.. ..... --..''. 1..
---,.... I1..
.- ,-
...... ............... _--''.-'1101  Wime; u e m, tM'dr '. 1"8'bud--b-..
.,,'..:::::llSelec, g  G '' '' C'u. h. jtla..,
-- 7 M. .0-1...'..
...... 1. P"mI- 1,:p.ovemm, : JMS:.dhir M.:
-gro:---:;.....P..- .... .---  - --..., .. .; ....  --M'.0. A-V
. _........'............... - .. .... . .----l- __ ... 9--__'.. ..:: .,: .. ........ _,-- ......... _,",," ,.-.........- .... - 1.  . I -  1. I 1. - 1. ...  1. I I....  I 1. .. ,--   , 1. ..,   1.  I -'. :X_ ........... .. ...... .. .:.. - 1.  - I I.. -  1. .: .....-. I1. .... : : 1: `vl,; Tel.  I I I .. . _....1-I.P.. ..  I --... "..
. I... ] PAPlgm.- .... 1. I.. ... I  -... I  ".     1,
.--.  or-anyIQUO cft,......'.........I.I.I.I.....,.......'..
''..                                                                                                       I_ . ,
-.]'tW r  'I                                          .Sfl,                             '.TPOWAIM,    110.&M                                                                           , and4ted  fjaro. ..P  " ,'.Ve:9103'fi                                                                                      I&                d'                                                          . i:p. ..S....-.....-.....-.... ...                                                                    I
I----                         ,.  'ax w ay._... _".   . ......... tR,!:                                                                               I
.- X X,:: ! ! -.......i..''..,....,.,..."'......'I Fly
-- !117:111-11:_: ... .. ..... ... ---l ,''..-..'..'....-1 .... w. .I ..,.,P..Ii'..::11.1.1.'I.I.l.-".",.,.I.I...
i:::I:::..::....::.......... . ..... 11-1 .....I.... -.. I.I.......,."..,..,......."..,.......,, ,.... 1, :! -.., -_-..   ""... - - -
... 1.1-1.1'....1-1-I.- .....I..... I---_ .. ... :.::.:.:::::::::...,:::::.:::::..'I ....I.... I .... - -., , - ...I.I.-I.. -11.1- . 1. _-. .. 1. . I..... . --
.- ... -.1 ....... 1-1..'...........I.- ..... ..... ....... ............ .. 1-1 .... - -... -- -1. I.., .. ........ .. .. '.. , I.. -  I-- I I I....  .,I-- . _ 1-1 ...... - "..., -- 1-1-11,
. ___ -1 ... . l.-...-.l'l.l.-.... .:: .... 
1. 1.11-...., ... :::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::: ,.,.,."I'..."..,....:,:,.:,.,............,."..,...''..,....'',..'..,.,.,...,..
'.. - _---.l.. --: ::  : ::::  I---.  1-1-1-1--l-l- ......-I.....I... .1.
...I.... I... . I.. I - 1. I . ::::; --11. 1. 1. .1 -.....l."..".'........., ...... -__-_-l. , ,. I.. . ._ ....  I....  ".'..., ''...... -..
::::::;:::::::::::: . .: :.:,:X:  2.,.,F_:::: ::::: -.. ,.---'..,- 1.  -..
---. -- I  ..- X-::: -::X: d.:.:.:..::::::: ::::: :: - -- ,-....l'_...- - _...'l ._.._..,.....,. I I.... . _... 
I.. .. ... 1. 1. I I . . I . I... ::::: :::: .... .. ...I. ... ..-" ..... -4  -- 1.  ''.. I.
I------ -- ..... .I.. - -- I.. 111.  .._ ....
I_ .l. ,_ __ _ __ . ..II.. ..
....__ 0_11-.1. - I_- I...,...........,.......I....'I ..'...,.....",.,.,,.,..''.,.,.....: .:  :- - . --_ - I
..:,.....e. 1. - - -.. I... 11 ...
.. I...,  .. Aptm - -.- 1. --l..''. . I I..   1,       1.  --- -1  I... .1., .. 1. I.. I I -. --. II I 
. . . . .. .....  I....-.... ...... _.. ...   - 1. I I... -.l. I.....-II I
.1.-. ... ''. '. -- ..,,
.:...5 .,I ,,P- ,..I. ..
I... .,We,..,iot .:]:::::11::::::::::::::::::: 1:X:-X- ::: :::: ,-. .. ...... ....-...
'N'liv . &.0wr , A 7....:  . I _........p.... .. . .. '_ _ ....."..II...,.'. 1,
. _--...---_.-. .... :... . .l....- I....  --  -,:...
I..... I.. - .- 1-1-1- _-.. ........ ... ..... ..I......I.''..'' .....I.... ..__.- ..... ..I--- , " . . __. . .. .P I.... I....  -.. --. 1. .- :; ::=.. ....... _-- .: ::X :X::::::-::::: _ .... ..... .._.._. ...-I
... .. .. . ..I... .. .. .. 1.,.....,....'.I...''..... --11-1-1 . .... ... .. ..... .11-1-1 -. .......-... - .  1. I.. -,
-... 1. I .. I - " __ - __ .... . I.. -.11. I---- .. .. . ..... .11-1-1. - ....''..__ ... 1_1 . .. ...... :,::::: ::: :::: ::::
... 1.11 ... . ... ''.. ...  . ..-.. ll.- ._-- . . . ..... ..... I---- ....._..._... I., .... -.. --l-I...'' I..''  - _- I .- ---. -.
-.1 II .-.......--. _- I... . 1. I. - ,  -1. .I
... , I.... .. -.1-1.111 .  - 11 - ___ ..... .- -... ... .....
. -,"....-.. -...... ._....'-..... __- 1. -... I., .... I.. --....X:i 1.-.. .....'...--,. 2,.__.
--. . _- I_  -...... ..l..-...-l_. , .-1 I... 11 ... :::::-::::::::::-::::::-- I .-
_. ", -___ . ''.. _1 ...-......... . .. .. .. ::::: :: . I-
-.. .. .. " -. I . .  _ --..,, I.%  I I... . "....I.I.. .."..'..1.1-1.1 .. .. .. 1.11'..........."...... __-: ,::::: ::; :::: . . ....I..-.,........ ::::::: :! ::::::::::::::: :::: : :-1. I., 1. . - -
-- I---- ... .. .l. ............"..,.......I.I....,.". 1...,.,...."...""...........'.....,'..,....,., _11_.,...- __..-_--.. ...-.1-11 ....I.... I.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..._ ''.. ...
.11 .11.11.1 ... _.__ ...... ..... ....... .. ..-I., ...-... .. .. 1.11 .... .. ..-....... I ..1 I . I.
.......... ,.-F."...., lb-   _.-I............... . ...,I
I---- -lm...... _ la'_. . .... .....1 ..., ....... ...l,..
..0 -  e, mg -,.....
I... O,x:]: WO , ., , pri, a. ..,.
.. "::: ,,W: . .::.-,v - ,,I.,
. . . .,t : :1: J* .y 6:' -., t' fid,,th :%` .
-.!:.,..:r .441.'M b=i-:". -dd':nje, , le 6, 1''. - -1. I - _ -.. -.
:::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::.::::::::::::]:.:::::.,...........I :.:::;:&:]j,.: .(_:f ltrm Of,
M.PRAT.F.9 ....._....... 71 0 -P C X  0__ _I
...-: :::... ::--.,----.---,-, '. . .. ...... ........ .. ... . ...
... ..I.....-. . .... ...b........ .. __
- .. -. ........-..... ... . ... I I...........  .... . ..... ......... . ..... ..... ....
-- .... .1 .. . .. ... .... ..... I_- ....
X. .            -        ...-.-      ....,     ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .. .,  ....  _              -     .......-
1.    .                                                    ,                 .... :.  .: fi.th'   h    ft'' ift    'fl    ""  , I Ad'':
]:. ,:..   . r.e"fi -.and;.stan: dliblUtawt.. as,:.. ev 1+d,I
i..1-1-1-1.1 CrenCe -.l..''..., .1 q.5.0 tV at o:  f p .. inanciaj, im"M--
....-- :: '..'__..'..'': .. ..... .. ..... . ............. ..-.... __ ... . . ..... ....... I ---...-A-- . . . . . ....... ... I... .. ,.__ .. IT V :]: I.-:-II---- . 
-1- ... 11 ..... - _,_.___ -, -11 .. .. . ...... _.....'- -, -- '__ -_- ..... ...I...... I .. -....-... ,.".,...,.."".....,1.1.,1.11. -1.1-1.1.1-1- I...  11- , -__ --
...",....ll",.,....,..........."..,.......,...'...,..".ll........I..ll.l.......,..",,..,.....................,."...l.,.,.,::.:.::,.:,I ......_,_--  ,."." ... ..... .... :.......I.I.:....,,.....".,.,... . ..... ........ ...... . ... .. . ..... .. .. .. . I...  -
.. .. .. .. _1 ..... .. .. .. ...........-.. .................... .. _., _...l. ,.,::. I------ --- -1 . ..... ..... ..... .. .. ....... ...... ... .. ''.. , ,. . I__ . I----
I.".....,.".., .: .... -...-.--.-.,...-_ .... I.........,.....'....,,..',.,"...'..,,"..,."..."...,..."...... ...... -1-1-1-1-1.1-1-1 ......-..... .. .-... __ ''.
....''. _- _-..-.- ... - _-- ..... -%_.. -.1 , ;: :: , - ,:--
....... : j .,,,:...__ lF. -: ....- ... ....... .............. ..... I_- ... ..... ...,,,,........::::::::::::::::::::::::]:::::::::::::::::::::::::,:::::::::::: ::::: :::::
.. .,.:::::::]:::::::::::::::::: ::::X:: ...-
.. .. .. I., ..... I .''...''. -... -__ __- -. . ........I....I......--I---  .- -_--
_..., _ I_- ........ .. .......... X.:::::-::::: -: ..::; -- --.. I -...,.,. 1. -..,.,....-2.. I-- -, 1. I.. I...
.. . .. . ..... .I.., ......I.... ..l.....-_. .--- ...I....... I.I.- ......... ., o:, 14  
..,_ __'. ....,.,...,.,..."..,..,."..,....,-.t...,.,.,I ............ ...'....- ...I...I... ffi-.--,"',- 1. 1.
d- ,. e,., "I .,I: ,.I ls- , a:.,:m.I
: ...0M.,F,,.
;.:. . ,: .1 ., ..0 ..
6, ., .-. itted li.O..'..' '' h" .itin iture 1_4"fions lb `bik ..,o
:..l.-..::,._..,._, ..-Vernme i 18:qmm ...... r..... '.. ,.-R....'...." r v... ... ... 1.0ame 1. __..... W.,framework off'.
I . . .... .1 '..-. - 11- AMPIPM ll.r...g.. .....T.... .. ....... _-_ . . ..... .. ....... _ - .. .. ._ .. I....
I..... I_ _-.. I. ..... J,--- ___. - -.....-.... __11-1 ..... 1. .1 ..... --. --- -..... _---l- .... ..  - .  - I I - ___.,...-___-.  .,_.-. I ...  I.... . _- -...
........ .. .. ..... .. __... I..... 1-1.1'.. 1-11.11 .... -.1-1-1.1 ............ ..l.-___ ... ..... ..... .......... : .. ...'' I..... I., ......... ., __ .... ____ _... _-.._.-..l-.- ''. -  -
-....... : ;;:- . :........ ....... ..... _...... ...-- ............
i: *40 , .,::M, .I-TY
.1.11.1 ..... ......-11.1-.1-11
.1 ..-.''T '' , ihb"
-.SMSW ,i'' '.
.-.l.. I....,elft opdho-
",.,.:: ]AMIIOP CS'AnPe4lifesih ,t , , ,"t
... :: d ''MC,.1 -elm. S. an.  ?CQMVO  .OA. ..--h d" fi,
...- ,........T; ,U .0. MIO. O S: : iDr..Ca -M9i::D.U : 
, -.-- -- .: .......... ..... ....,I
... -,--.,.-..,_.. :::::,:.::,::: :  l.:.::_ : 00.1 . ... Y.:, . ....... ... -::
''....-Iffil.....''.1- ,o 4 -, ,.:i:::::::::::]::::::::::::::::],%.:P::::I:..I..... -....I.....-........ ._-II ti __. , __ _.- _- -..... - 1. .... I 1. -,.---,....... if,.6:.. . % - _ .... ........ :: ::::-. :::::.  ::w ::: ::::. -1 ........  ..... ___ ... - _ , I-- .... -,-::-:.,-
, ,
::::Cor M ---.-.I, .V:,,P_ 1_..
--- . .. .......... ..... . ..... ... ; ..-, -Qdfii: `d'e. 
.. ., .... -,ert-ja: '' :b s:!,, or: d aub isl 11
::::::ilm.M16,ns. -S a:
Im , ..m h'bbtftlv6iM1PAm :lli. mallze._ .... .. ..... :: as
:__ ... .........  .... - -..... - __ .... - - .: ..... - I.. .  -.... I..-...c.. ..... .......... .-".,.'ll'..ll-I...",-.. ......l._.,:::com _119*i ... P_ ...  _...._.. ..,
_.l...''.1--l'.. -1 .... -.1.1- ''..,..''..,...-,Z.-,...,.,.,, ...............  -, __ ......%...... .-I..'".......:i:i:..,:]...,:.:S. ..... 1 ". I.- 1''.. ,.
.1 .... --- . ..... I---- - .... .-- -- -.--_-..
_.... - ___. , ..-I-1.11-1- ... 1-1. I-- ... .. , -.......  ..11.1 ........I....-.............I..... 1. ...... _...l. -... - - .... _ - II---  __ _
...%__'-, -114 .l:.._-.. ..1.1..-I.I..''..- ........... . .... -. .- -__- ft
--I.,: --l'.'b-. ''....-I... -1 .
--- ...j::jmo, Ur mg: U..:.. . .'j,:..  
..., .. .....:.1:
-,.4
. ln.::: I M.. ;..-1- - -- - mIW
--,
1:-W,:OW........,.............,.,..,..,, ..... ::rm'.0.:
:Mim, :,:.::D. !m.TmjMnX:SWW P W '' Md)=lh C., P,j.f...Un C
I.... .. 11 ........ _-- ..... ..l. -- .......I.. .. .... 1!.. !:: Val zjng
-- ., -.1-1. .,--- ...l..l...P....,. -......,., "....,.."... "......l.".  -, ....
......,.,.,.,..,............,..,..,...,.'..,.,....,.... . Iwx::--: -:::_.,.:::::.:..: ............... ___ .......... .1-1-1 ......  I. '.........l.. ....-I.......- ".I
.--.-..- ..... .-11-1-1 .......... ... I., ....... .".... I... I.I...1.111-1 ..........I_11. I... 11 .. 1.
.. . ...... _.-- 1. - I-............. .................. -d. _-  _.. I... ..... ..
....  "..  ,....,.. .... -.. ......._...-.............-....-....... ..... ...... ... . .... .111.
........,.:I
,I.- I ..19.17, :.: U -zation. M llfv
,..-..-... -ty M...: C..: :X.,' -State'Dp ..
1. .P.T. " , " 'th ARJ,mi ` - B .......-, -I . .I
:.. .. .. 11 b' , .. % M.. .::ldopte' :bvvlh114thill 49(ft, at
1.1.,...."."''.,::..:;.PO...i: ....,.,,-_ .... ...... ...........-...I.-, ......I.... a. I :::-::::x::--::-::: : .: ",I1----
-....I.........-........ I---- ... ... :: :::]::::::::...:.:;:.::::;:::.:.:::::.:.:::: .......... . ,.....,.,.........-,...
...''. 1.11.1 .....-... .. .... .- .... . I.. .. I....I... I.., :. ....... ., .l.l'.'l.l'..l....l....._.l.. 1- __ j , "..  I  I   .
... ..... .. ..... __ _ '..: ...  .1-[_:::jA:j:jjX:::::-:-:::,:. .... . ..... .1 .... -- ......I............. ..,.._.....l..-- ..... -.... I.... ..I..... ....... I... '._.,..l.l. '-.1.1 1, ".
:., , " _I.. ....... to-w. ,.., ... 1. -.
..., Or. ..  ' It,"Us _p
:: : U. Oonol.e. W.. .. .... kbut : ].M, :C
."' :: '.,,'"' ': t-tt' ",
 d' 1 rei..la alx.CJPAte
I...M'"vv,: W%x. dd'z". 0CdAlr6i4vdlV. 1. , S., .:.Da: J. iO j:
.. -:::::! ::::::: -::::::: PIP- j K:PTO
I....,.....,.,............,.....,.......".,........,..:,::.::! -:::-:::-::::w:  -:::::-l::-. . i::-..'_-...-::x: ....'......"..'.", ...... -..l_...,-__,-- -..
---- -:::::::::: ::: q: V: X; 1. . :__ ____
I: - -- '...... ::::::::::: &.-...x. .1111 .....,..-
..''.. .....". ,...".. 1. 1.--
::: . . M:i&&
 .
,.".1 .'.......'...., ::::::
.1 1. , 4diiffi`:: i , ........" ....'.... - ... ... I_ -- -- I-,..,
i::,xjyrwalt,id6h,I.I'd tAd 614
iifions: flt** .w"' '''mt .: ipnaiiy:i. ere cod Vattradt..
.. :: . ....... .... IY------ ....... tmd.
-::: :f __ .... - '... ... _... .. ......  :..... ........ _...."...... . .......... :,:.;,_XXw- ::: -::: - ,.
::: : :F-._..-_. ........ .I........I......... I.-..... -.1.1-11 .... ..I................ ............
-- ... ..I..,.,,...:h:.:i:.,.:', :ld:!:-::::::: ............................... ... ................. -.-- .... 4.......-,- _-- ....-..... .I
..1a
... '..,Ccomvehfi
I1... .. ... ....  .. . ' ''" '''A,, ;': -- 'I vlc:::
...:.x,:.,: -, :-U.;N_:: .... .. .. .... .,
., .;.. Uu$
_-.. . ......
-Maoc " bd.tr.,,
.?::'-i:".. U M. "U,bIlk
-.... ..be. J- php ..'1
.,.Y 04&'' :::,a .d..
.). ...;M .: -1 4 v1sersw.1 ::i leom--_%AAJPV O&
... _-. ...'..- ,. . .... .....,............,..........,:..''....,...,..,..,....".........,.....'....%".-j
I_--- I.....-..... ....... ..''..............'.......- .- .. . .......I.... - -1- . ... - PY: ....:.... v
 I... I.. I., ..... ...... .- ...  I........I...........I..... --- ....... - -..........I...I............ .. I.. I I I.... 1. I I. .........  .....l..'...1-11--l',
...... .... .......-......................_..... ....... ---&- ...-.... -_-.1-1-1-1 ... I., ....... I I..... -1---.11 .... I I.. I.. I.... , I,__
.1 ........I.....I.......I... .... .1 ._ __ ..... 111.
-. ... 1-1. ... ,. -- ....... ..
_1 . :. .
:.an.:;, 1, ::: M, .1
11 . ..... .....-........ I.. ::-,.a Ons:V1 I:' '-'d 't hi
.., :MrocesKX s M. I] OAVO .1,M'..' ,db.'d' viftffi ' I 'Ilb velw; In accord
:?: ii.::Of t -11-b '"' d.eU ,. 6i.l:..:..:..:..0 -mnce::
:..:::::::A::::::::::::::::::::::: ....... ..... ...... .........-.. ...I.... I.., .....I........ - ,.. ---..C=O.F]0UEV,J . w.'--_-._--. I ".
. :::::,_- ..-....... .............,.'........I.I.,.11''. _-1 .. .... --- ---.,
1-1 . ..... M......l. ., :. * :. .:- :- -.1. .%.---...'.......-I.- ..........-l'.'.....-'-..-,-
.. ... . .. I..... ''. -..--
.- -...-
.I.
.I..
...
....,
..... . I-...I.M. '. -
... ... SluMn ...'tD",Swl Pr.,,
..-..
.
,,'G',t "' 't,
..,.
_-.. .1:,:, A. , s'I 97,60:AJOmmon ,. .,
, P_ ti :: Mi--WA.49.11,t _A:.p. 11 . O.-:) MAh :: ,e.:::
___- .. .... . . .. I..,.......,....,.......I.I.,.....,.... -... ................."..,....'.,,.........''.I ...... I...... . r....... I ... I... - ......"........, ................I.. ... :: ... .. __ , w ., M. ''...
.------- .. -_- .... .....I..... .......I...... 1. ..... .. .. I.. I ..I. ...... .... _ .".,..,.... 1.
I... -....-_ I....-,,,, ",.... ..-.1-1.1....'' .....-.... ..... 11 ..... .....I.....
__,,.. . .... ...... ......k. .......I.......... .....-
... i-.11 . ........4.1 . .A Ail.__..,,.
-1 .. .. ....  -.1.,,-.1.........l.....'.- _S
.-Ijon,:_ .; .1 -
.,,- - ". (suft, mi  :: I.  1... ,IC y.tjtgtw



W
.0 7
Sm
M         . . . . . .
CD
CD
d
6:2
4
n Z.,
w l::
W                                          f  ::p
.. ..... ...
0
w.J;', . M- M
0: .                        O',                      W, M                 .-M:   ,
0 a
W
b
w. pw
w
..or w
CD        n               C=l                                       rA
rA                   z.
CA
CL                                              CD                                                                                                              w
0   0
CD                                                                                                                                                                                        :S.
X
W
M
'IQ
so
CD
UQ              0                                     0                                                                               w p
>
CD                                                                                           &                            co
0
rA .
CD                              tTl
w                                  W
tii 00
CD
W
M
o
w
CD
vlonm
w
0                                                                      ,rA
F-I                                                                           Cp          . . .                                                      a   w                                    X
W
O                                                                                     w
rA   CD             (JQ                   ti.
M  .::     k
(A       If-Al                                                             :  :M:: : :i :                  ., .... M .M..M.                    g     :  d.:::MM W
0
tz
(IQ        CD
Q                              :-W.
0
ui
(D             0
CD              00                                                                                                       il:              V
t-i                                                  ;<
p
CD                                                                                                    MM                           iv,                                                  I     I.It     md.I     ,'n ,                 w
tz
al
4tlr'
p
CD
FA
a
0               CD                                                               tri
F
:0  W
CD                   CD                                                                                                                                                                       a-M
[A                                                       (IQ
P3             1                                                            , im :,. ::': j. i:.V:V,::!                         . M
sw                                t a%:m M
CD                              CD                                                                    Er,: ::: : ]..::     Im'.
am.
w,
(D                                                                                                          00
(D            CD                                                       F,                                  tv
F F W  dow:
P!             (D               0
ri)                                                                                        :...  *              OM
0                                         0
CD                   CD
C)              CD
rA                                                                                                          a   W
0
FD                                   0
ri,
rA   ID
CD                                                                        CD
(IQ                                                             CL  C7,
0                                    W,
p .......                                                  F .                                    "4
CD
CD                                                   rA
w          +
53   En                                                                                                                                                                                      J5
:(30' -M     '17v           ft
CD                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co'
CD                                                                    V
=b. v
w



40
136.  Tranche Triggers. Disbursement of $400 million of the $800 million loan would be available
immediately upon loan effectiveness. The remaining $400 million will be available when senior Bank
management determines that a fully satisfactory macro-economic framework is in place, and the basis for
this judgment will be reported to the Board at the time of tranche release.
137.  Supervision. It is envisaged that program implementation will involve quarterly supervision
missions, probably in conjunction with IMF monitoring missions under the EFF.
E. Implementation and Technical Assistance
138.  As with SALI, policy implementation under the proposed SAL2 will rest with the Government's
Commission on Economic Reform, headed by one of the two First Deputy Prime Ministers. The
secretarial work of the Commission will be provided by the Deputy Minister of Economy in charge of
economic reform, who will coordinate the work of the various ministries and agencies involved in policy
implementation. Each of the policies supported by SAL2 have been integrated into the Government's
workplan for the rest of 1997 and 1998 to ensure that the various policies are implemented in a timely
fashion.
139.  Technical assistance for policy implementation will be needed for reforms in several sectors.
Support for preparation of the overall program, with a focus on fiscal management, has been supported
by a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant from the Japanese Government. TA for
power sector reform is being supported by the Bank through the Portfolio Development Loan and the
Electricity Support Reform Project. TA for natural gas reform is being provided through the Energy
Efficiency Project. TA for privatization is being provided through the Privatization Implementation
Assistance Loan and a PHRD grant from the Japanese Government.
F. Financial Arrangements
140.  Loan Amount and Borrower. The proposed SAL2 of US$800 million, in the form of a single
currency, US dollar loan would be made to the Russian Federation, represented by the Ministry of
Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAL2 will be made to an account ('Deposit Account') of
the Ministry of Finance established at the Central Bank of Russia for this purpose. The loan will have
the standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans.
141.  Loan Management. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager designated
by the Ministry of Finance. The loan manager will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal
applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the
Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will also be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the Implementation Completion Report
and for writing those sections relating to loan administration.
142.  Disbursements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness, the proceeds of the loan
will be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in
this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported
from non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), the Bank will
require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b)



41
refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount of the loan). In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement
Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements
will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements.
143.  Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. Although routine audits of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
144.  Closing Date. The expected closing date of the proposed loan will be December 31, 1998.
G. Poverty Implications
145.  The operation is being designed in the context of the Bank's overall strategy in Russia to cushion
the impact of the economic transition on vulnerable groups. To this end, the Bank has carried out a
poverty assessment and is working with the Government to follow up in a wide number of areas,
including child allowances, housing allowances for poor households, unemployment insurance, pension
reform, and the overall targeting of health, education, and other public services to improve coverage of
poor groups. The primary lending vehicles at present for conducting the overall dialogue with the
Government on poverty reduction are the SPAL (Social Protection Adjustment Loan) and SPIL (Social
Protection Implementation Loan) operations. The proposed SAL2 more generally provides the resources
intended to generate economic growth, therefore providing more employment opportunities as well as
fiscal revenues for public services. Moreover, the increase in economic efficiency arising from the
reforms supported by SAL2 (such as more efficient "natural" monopoly pricing) and the further
consolidation of fiscal stabilization and reduction in inflation resulting from the Government's tax and
budget management reforms supported by SAL2 will also help reduce poverty.
H. Environmental Impact
146.  Each of the five components of the proposed SAL2 has potentially positive environmental
effects. The efficiency enhancing reform of natural monopolies in the energy and infrastructure sectors,
including improved pricing methods and collection mechanisms, along with the phasing out of cross-
subsidies among consumer groups, offers an opportunity for substantial environmental impact,
particularly with regard to the reduction of air pollutants and gieenhouse gas emissions.  The
restructuring of existing firms and industries through private sector development and privatization, as
well as from competition from international trade, could foster environmental gains associated with
improved management and efficiency. Enhanced fiscal management and the associated improvements in
tax collection and budget administration may over time lead to an increase in funds available for public
expenditures, which include wastewater treatment, the protection of forests and natural reserves, and
other environmental costs. Additionally, a higher rate of tax collection could, by association, bring about
an increase in the actual payment of pollution charges placed on firms. Lastly, banking reforms will
facilitate the availability of credit needed for investments in energy efficient technologies and in
environmental sciences.



42
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
147.   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



Attachment 1
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate           Projected
indicator                   1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                                 7.6      6.1      6.9      6.9
Industrya                                   40.5     41.2     39.3     36. 
Servicesa                                  46.4      49.7     47.1     50.5
Total consumption                            69.1     69.7      73.2     74.6     76.9     78.1      78.2    78.0
Gross domestic fixed investment                       21.8      20.0     19.5     17.0      17.9     18.7    19.6
Government investment                                  6.1       5.2      4.4      4.3      4.4       4.6      4.7
Private investment                                     19.4     18.0     17.7     15.8      15.4     16.1     16.9
Exports (GNFS)b                              35.5     27.7      25.6     22.5     21.2     20.3      19.2     18.5
Iinports (GNFS)                              31.6     22.9      22.1     19.2     18.2      18.3     18.0    18.0
Gross domestic savings                       30.9     30.3      26.8     25.4     23.1     21.9      21.8     22.0
Gross national savingsc                      28.5     28.5      24.8     23.4     20.9     19.4      18.8     19.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    183,780  277,025  357,348  440,169  460,353  498,097  552,516  602,651
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per                  2,770    2,330    2,240    2,400
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at                 -8.7%   -12.6%    -4.1%    -4.9%      0.0%     4.0%     6.0%     6.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                    -10.1%   -12.6%    -4.4%    -4.7%      0.5%     3.6%     5.7%     5.7%
Real annual per capita growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at                 -8.6%   -12.5%    4.0%    -4.6%       0.3%     4.3%     6.3%     6.3%
market prices
Total consumption                          6.9%    -3.6%    -0.5%      1.6%     2.5%     5.3%     5.9%     5.7%
Private consumption                        5.6%    10.8%    -0.7%      9.2%     3.3%     5.3%     5.6%     5.3%
(Continued)



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                Estimate          Projected
Indicator                  1993     1994    1995      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
The balance of payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                         65,244    76,667   91,610   99,112   97,681  101,049  105,845  111,334
Merchandise FOB                      58,422    67,716   81,552   88,464   87,401   90,252   94,384   99,131
Imports (GNFS)b                        58,110   63,448   78,885   84,728   83,747   91,054   99,587  108,720
Merchandise FOB                      44,219   48,005   60,084   67,557   67,033   73,244   80,499   88,300
Resource balance                         7,134    13,219   12,725   14,384   13,935    9,996    6,258    2,614
Net current transfers                       ..      -59      108     167      167      167      167      167
(including official current transfers)
Current account balance                  5,477    9,576    6,155    5,917    4,104   -2,239  -10,232  -14,466
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                386       637    2,017    2,158    3,158    3,300    4,300    5,300
investment
Long-term loans (net)                  -10,780  -12,904  -10,479   -2,734   -1,612   -1,880   -1,170   -5,616
Other capital (net, including            8,317   -1,378    7,236  -10,202    1,157   11,037   17,482   27,141
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                     -3,400    4,069   4,929    4,861   -6,807  -10,217  -10,380  -12,359
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                     3.9%    4.8%     3.6%     3.3%     3.0%     2.0%     1.1%     0.4%
GDP at current market prices)
Real annual growth rates
(FY96 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                    ..      ..       ..       ..   2.2%      2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Primary                                    ..       ..   2.6%      2.2%     2.2%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Capital goods                          -23.4%    6.4%    50.0%     2.2%     2.2%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%
Merchandise imports (CIF)                    ..      ..       ..       ..   5.0%      6.6%     6.6%     6.6%
(Continued)



Attachment 1
Page 3 of7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                 Estimate          Projected
Indicator                   1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                           38.6      36.7     32.7     28.8     29.7     30.4     31.5    32.4
Current expenditures                       42.6     40.7      33.2     32.5     32.8     31.3     30.7    29.8
Budgetary savings surplus (+)               -4.1     -4.1     -0.5     -3.7     -3.1     -0.9      0.8      2.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditures                        4.8       7.4      6.0      5.1      4.9      5.0      5.2      5.3
Overall balance (- = deficit)              -8.7    -11.3      -5.6     -8.5     -7.8     -5.7    -4.0    -2.5
Foreign financing                            3.2      1.3      2.1      2.5      3.9      3.5      2.4      2.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)          23.9     21.2      16.9     16.3     17.0     19.1     21.3    24.4
Growth of M2 (%)                          286.6    216.5    112.6      33.1     23.6     30.3    29.1      29.8
Price indices
(1996 =100)
Merchandise export price index                ..       ..       ..   100.0      96.7     97.5     99.0   100.5
Merchandise import price index                ..       ..       ..   100.0      94.5     96.9     99.9   102.8
Merchandise terms of trade index             ..        ..       ..   100.0    102.3    100.6      99.1     97.8
Real exchange rate                         35.9      59.7     74.4    100.0    100.0    101.5    103.0   103.0
(USm/LCU)w
Consumerprice index                      895.3%   303.2%   188.7%    47.5%    15.1%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                             888.1%   307.3%   178.4%    45.5%    18.0%    12.0%     9.0%     7.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Enlarged government (federal and local govermnents and extrabudgetary fuids).
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual'               Estimate          Projected'
Indicator                1993      1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Total debt outstanding and           112,940  121,921  120,461  127,392  138,072  149,953  156,449  162,677
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (USSm)               4,334    1,089    4,619      -219    2,091    3,807   -3,282   -7,213
Total debt service (TDS)               2,333    3,674    6,303   17,932   16,433   18,821   24,737   28,792
(USSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGSb                             171.7    157.3    129.7    126.9    140.4    146.4    144.8    142.8
TDO/GDP                               61.5      44.0     33.7     28.9     30.0      30.1     28.3     27.0
TDS/XGS                                 3.5      4.7      6.8     17.9      16.7     18.4     22.9     25.3
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
BRD DS/public DS                       0.5       1.0      0.9      0.8       1.3      2.6      3.2      3.9
PreferredcreditorDSlpublic             11.5     13.7     13.6      9.4      12.0     15.1     23.4      18.9
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                            0.0       0.0      0.1      0.1      0.2       0.5      0.7       1.0
Share of IBRD portfolio                0.4       0.6      1.4      2.3      4.1       5.7      7.2      8.2
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
e. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country team.



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 3: External Financing
(US$ millions at current prices)
Estinated                  Projection
1997          1998           1999           2000
Sources                                      44,952         43,537         36,709         38,143
Non-interest current account balance        12,256          6,609          2,178         -2,128
Disbursement                                10,372         13,779          9,044          9,241
IMF                                         3,900          4,000             0              0
Other medium- and long term                 6,135          7,091          7,749         7,830
of.whichIBRD                              2,016          2,052          2,170          1,811
Net short-term                                337          2,688          1,295          1,412
Private investment                          14,489         13,575         15,707         17,588
Direct foreign investment                  3,158          3,300          4,300         5,300
Portfolio investments (net)               11,331         10,275         11,407         12,288
Debt relief                                  7,836          9,573          9,780         13,441
Uses                                         44,952         43,537         36,709         38,143
Debt service due                            16,432         18,821         24,736         28,792
of which IBRD                              217            477            767           1,107
Repayments (including IMF)                  8,281          9,972         12,326         16,454
Interest payments                           8,151          8,849         12,410         12,338
Increase in gross reserves                  10,397         13,215          7,172          9,550
Other capital flows                         18,123         11,501          4,801           -200



Attachment 1
Page 6 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a glance
.............                                             .
,:~~~~~~~~~_ ..:..........
~adfttIea  ble  taeem.    DaIeopUWM dled
N     ., ,9 .. $.... .....................                                                e .pectany
Al  0~~~~    t) ~    GNP                               Gross
per |k  GNP   0_ig             pfimary
~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~      ~      ~~               cpita                        enrollment
b*ntovtalit7 (per  Rue Mitre)    16        26       41                ~~~~~~~~Access to safe wtar
~3roeepyenroWmnt g~otage-p~aor~   ...ei             to~-Russian Fedewatin
Male                           ..        97      10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -   ~~Lowwr-middlos-incor-ne group
1b76~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .........      ..........5..   *9
Economic aUor
~~~toea~~~~..........u........P..                .......        . 23~  221... .n....  
~~  225  ~~~Openness of economy
triter                                          'E'E''"'"p'"''~OP'  ~      * ~      Savings                    investment
Prsi.entvue . f .. tiWI.GD. ..                                                                 .. ........
s g                                                          *~1.:                              Idtdessc- EEE E_,g,,;i-"': g: i '
1555 19856     1986       95      19
(o GDP)          .        .        .       .        .       .       .       .      Growth...........  Sins ofLoutpumadd  Investment (-o
Exors of goods'EEic an sevie                 7EiC<-'s'i .0 i< 40 ii 4
STR U CT U R E o   i. . EC O N O M                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __'j_ _EEE.'_ _ __:_'_.:_ _ _ _ _ _ __.'"c
of dGDP)                                                                          Growth rere of output and Investment t%)
Agriculture                                                       7.4      7.3      20
Industby                                                         421      39.1
Manufacuring                                                                ,  .. 
Services                                                         50.5     536        
4 .
Private consumption                                              59.0     63.4              n1   n2           " 9        "
General govemewnt consumption                                    14.1     11.2                     GDl          GD
Imports of goods and services                                    22.1     19.2
197545  1986-6        1995     1996
(average annual groxth)
Agriculture '                                                    -8 0     -7.0      Growth rates of export and Impodts ()
Industry *                                                       -4.5     -4.0      10
Manufacturing                                                  -3
Services '-00                                                             -38,
Private consumption                                              -0.9      6.8       - j-    2       9/'    m     w
General govemment consumption                                     0.1    -27.3     .10
Gross domesic investment                                        -12.0    -21.1     -15
Imports of goods and services                                     9.8     -1.6
Gross national product                          ..      ..       -4.5     -5.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
a  Sectoral GDP are stmated at factor cost
The diamonds show Ibur key indrcators in the country (in bold) compared wih its income-group average. If date are missing, the diamond vwli
be incomplete.



Attachment I
Page 7 of 7
Table 4: Russian Federation at a glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1965       1995    1996
D_osfc pdces                                                                     Inflion 1%
I% change)
Consumer prices                               ..       ..    188.7    47.5   
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..       ..    178.7    45.4       .00
oere,NmntfhAnc                                                                   50        IN- 
(% of GDP)                                                                         e
Current revenue                               ..       ..      32.7    28.8              51    n    "    H    Is   0
Current budge balance                                          -0.5    -37
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -5.6    -8.5                  GP def.       CPI
TRADE
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                   Export and Import leis (milL US$)
Total exports (fob)                           ..             81,552   88,463
Crude oil                                   ..             12741   15,724            .
Natural gas                                  ..      ..   13,391   15,487    *         .        0_
Machinery, equipment, vehicles              ..       ..    6,240    6,216         00t.-.     riI           T 1
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..   64,198   70,021       40.000 n    r
Food                                        ..        .    1 13,041   11,500 1   oroo    li       l l        1   l
Fuel and energy                              ..      ..    1,584    1,848                  0 .  . ,. _ L lIi.LIIUl1
Machinery, equipment vehicles               ..       ..   15,700   14,400              92   02   94   us   9s
Export price index (1987-10O)                 ..      ..         ..       . 
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..
Terms oftrade (1987.100)                      ..
BALNCE of PAYMAENTS
1975    19S5       1995    1996
(miNions USS)                                                                   Current account balance to COP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..   91,610   99,112
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..   78,885   84,728      4.0 
Resource balance                              ..      ..   12,725   14,384
30 -
Net income                                    ..      ..   4,331   4,171
Notcurrenttransfers                           ..      ..       108      167     z.
Current account balance,                                                        10I
before official capital transfers           ..       ..    6,502    6,380 
Financing itms (net)                           .       ..    -1,573  -11,241    0.
Changes in net reserves                       ..       ..   -4,929    4,861           02    93    54       0 
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           ..      ..   17,207   15,324
Conversion rate (lcaWS$)                      ..      ..    4,562    5,126
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(milions USS)                                                                   ComposltIon of total deb, 1996 imilL US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..  120,461  127,392
IBRD                                        ..      ..    1,524    2,509
IDA                                         ..                 0        0                   G  A    C
700 250912463 D
Total debt servce paid                        ..      ..    6,065    7,257                                320
IBRD                                        ..      ..        57      121
IDA                                         ..      ..         0        0             F
38000
Composition of net resource flows
Capital transfers                           ..      ..      -347    -463
Official creditors                          ..        ..      98
Private creditors                           ..      ..   -1,043         ..                               E
Foreign direct investment                   ..      ..    2,017    2,158
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..   -1,434    6.331
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       .,    1,664    1,923      A-l1RD                     E -  8      1etw
Disbursements                               .,      ..       824    1,097      B- IDA    D-* Other mn     F - PFll 
Principal repayments                        ..      ..         0        0      C - IMF                    G - Shwt4Irm
Net flows                                   ..      ..       824    1,097
Interest payments                           ..      ..        57      121
Net transfers                               ..      ..       767      976
Deveopment Economics and Russia Country Team             p:tRussiaSPREMsal2U4board%SAL2MoPtRus15aag.xds    28 November 1997
Note: Estimates for the fomer Soviet repubrcs are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 9
Active Loans
RU-PE-8809      IBRD 36233   1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB.                    10.00        0.00             0.00          7.51    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809      IBRD 36232   1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB.                  170.00         0.00             0.00         24.17    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809      IBRD 36231   1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB.                   158.00        0.00           41.60           5.61    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8809      IBRD 36230   1993  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB.                   272.00        0.00          142.15           2.58    202.07       18.32       U              S
RU-PE-8810      IBRD 35460   1993  GOVT OF RUSSIA                     PRIVATIZATION                 90.00        0.00             0.00         26.30       6.61      -4.39        S             S
RU-PE-8822      IBRD 35320   1993  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA               EMPLOYMENT SERV. &            70.00        0.00           10.00          29.59      39.58       1.00        S             S
SOCIAL PROT
RU-PE-8805      IBRD 37682   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB. II                 90.40        0.00             0.00          3.40    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805      IBRD 37681   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB. II                 51.10        0.00             4.72          4.87    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805      IBRD 37680   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB. II                 24.70        0.00             0.00          5.07    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805      IBRD 3768C   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB. II                 99.60        0.00             0.00         64.95    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805      IBRD 3768B   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                 OIL REHAB. II               108.90         0.00             0.00         89.33    296.97    261.97         U              S
RU-PE-8805     IBRD 3768A   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  OIL REHAB. II               125.30         0.00            0.00         115.65    296.97      261.97       U              S
RU-PE-8839     IBRD 3763A   1994  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     ENTERPRISE SUPPORT          196.00         0.00            0.00         190.06    114.06        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8811     IBRD 37570   1994  REP.OF RUSSIAN FED.                 AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.         240.00         0.00           30.00         187.41    170.75       29.02       U              U
RU-PE-34579    IBRD 37560   1994  REP OF RUSSIAN FED                  LAND REFORM IMPL. SU         80.00         0.00            0.00          62.51      43.51       0.00       U              S
RU-PE-8828     IBRD 3734A   1994  MOF                                 FINANCIAL                   187.62         0.00            0.00         159.38    151.07       11.89       S              S
INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
RU-PE-8808     IBRD 37060   1994  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  HIGHWAY REHAB & MAIN        300.00        0.00             0.00          90.40       -.25       0.00       HS             S
RU-PE-8806     IBRD 38850   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  URBAN TRANSPORT             329.00        0.00             0.00         148.74      52.74       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8803     IBRD 38760   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY        106.50        0.00            36.50          69.67      66.88      12.35       U              U
RU-PE-40409    IBRD 38726   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT         29.60         0.00            0.00          23.42      24.15       0.00       S             HS
RU-PE-38572    IBRD 38530   1995  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     TAX ADMINISTRATION            16.80        0.00            0.00          16.13      13.62       2.58       S              S
RU-PE-8827     IBRD 3850A   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  HOUSING                     363.72        0.00             0.00         310.06    153.88        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8823     IBRD 38440   1995  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN          40.00        0.00            0.00          34.44      30.69       5.73       S              S
RU-PE-8826     IBRD 38240   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  MANAGEMENT AND FINAN          40.00       0.00             0.00          23.55       3.07       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8821     IBRD 38060   1995  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME        110.00         0.00            0.00          84.85      -3.53       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-45622    IBRD 40590   1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  COAL IAP                     25.00         0.00            0.00          22.23       1.84       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8831     IBRD 40350   1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     LEGAL REFORM PROJECT         58.00        0.00             0.00          56.05       9.88       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-38571    IBRD 40330   1996  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                MEDICAL EQUIPMENT           270.00        0.00             0.00        204.26    -27.39         0.00       S              S
RU-PE-42622    IBRD 40290   1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIAN FEDERATI           CAPITAL MARKET DEV.          89.00        0.00             0.00          89.00       7.67       0.00       S              U
RU-PE-36973    IBRD 40120   1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ENTP.HOUSING DIVESTI        300.00        0.00             0.00        294.90        5.41       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35761    IBRD 40090   1996  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     CoMMUNITY SOCIAL INF        200.00        0.00             0.00         193.71       6.88       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-35764    IBRD 39900   1996  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  BRIDGE REHABILITATIO        350.00        0.00             0.00         342.19    142.54        0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8837     IBRD 39610   1996  GOVT OF RUSSIA                      STANDARDS DEVELOP.           24.00        0.00             0.00          23.15       4.42       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-38573    IBRD 42030   1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  SOC. PROTECT. ADJ.          800.00         0.00            0.00         500.00      83.34       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-44200    IBRD 41850   1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  BUREAU OF ECON.POLIC         22.60        0.00             0.00          22.60       0.00       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-46448    IBRD 41840   1997  MINISTRY OF FINANCE                 ENTERPRISE RES.SERVS         85.00        0.00             0.00          85.00        .64       0.00
RU-PE-8825     IBRD 41830   1997  GOVT. OF RUSSIA                     EDUCATION INNOVATION         71.00        0.00             0.00          71.00       0.00       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-8814     IBRD 41820   1997  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                HEALTH REFORM PILOT          66.00        0.00             0.00          66.00        .94       0.00       S              S
RU-PE-50891    IBRD 41810   1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ELECTR. SECTOR REFOR          40.00       0.00             0.00          40.00       2.50       0.00
RU-PE-42720    IBRD 41440   1997  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                  ST. PETERSBURG REHAB          31.00       0.00             0.00          31.00        .54       0.00       S              s
RU-PE-46496   IBRD 42340   1998  GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA                 SOC. PROTECT. IMPL.          28.60        0.00             0.00          28.60       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                           5,769.44        0.00           264.97      3,849.34  3,696.14  1,703.28
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 28 November 1997



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russian Federation
IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio (Continued)
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               1,655.13            2,422.05            4,077.18
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,504.46            2,422.05            7,926.51
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid             :                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :             3,849.34                0.00            3,849.34
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the EY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generaed by the Opeaons Informion System (OIS) on 28 November 1997                                                                  p:LRussiaUJREM\SAL24BoardSAI2MoP\A2Tab1el.doc



Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Russian Federation
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993                  Polar Lights           26.81    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Vasyugan                3.38    0.00    1.50    0.00    3.38    0.00    1.50    0.00
1994                  Framlington Fund        0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  Russia Registry         0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1994                  RTDC                   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1995                  A.O. Volga             30.00   11.00    0.00   39.38   30.00   11.00    0.00   39.38
1995                  Depsona Z.A.O.          5.30    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995                  First NIS Fund         0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Russ Tech Fnd          0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00
1995                  SCF                    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00
1996                  Alpha Cement           0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.49    0.00    0.00
1996                  Pioneer First          0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  UNEXIM Bank            15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Aminex RUS             17.00    5.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.49    0.00    0.00
1997                  Intl. Bottlers         35.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 132.49   74.01    1.50   39.38   67.69   70.03    1.50   39.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
loan   Equitv  Ouasi  Partic
1996                  ALPHA CEMENT          20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  BORSTEKLO - II         0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  DEPSONA B LOAN         0.00    0.00    0.00    5.20
1997                  INTL. BOTTLERS          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  NIKITAS BROKER.        7.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  PLM                   25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997                  PLM EASTERN            0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
HOLD
1997                  POKROVSKIY MINE    16.00    0.00    0.00   32.30
1997                  RUSSIAN IT FUND        0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TROIKA DIALOG          0.00    0.00    2.99    0.00
1997                  ZOLOTO MINING           0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         68.00   44.51    2.99   52.50
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS) on 28 November 1997  p:\Russia\PREM\sal2\4Board\SAL2MoP\A2Table2.doc



Attachment 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:                    5 months
(b) Prepared by:                              Government with the assistance of IBRD
staff and consultants
(c) Preparation and appraisal missions:       July/August 1997; October 1997
(d) Negotiations:                            November 1997
(e) Planned Board presentation:               December 18, 1997
(f) Planned date of effectiveness/first tranche:  December 1997
(g) Expected release of second tranche:       January/February 1998
(h) Expected program completion:              December 1998






Attachment 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR THE
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1. INTRODUCTION
1.   In March 1996, the Government of the Russian Federation formulated a medium-term
economic program covering the period 1996-98, designed to accelerate the transition of the
Russian economy onto a path of sustained noninflationary growth on the basis of market
principles. The key macroeconomic policy underpinning these objectives was a targeted
reduction in the overall fiscal deficit (of the enlarged and the federal government) from around
5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 4 percent of GDP in 1996 and to 2 percent of GDP by 1998. The
sustainability of this fiscal adjustment was predicated on an increase in revenues of the
Government of 4-5 percentage points of GDP over the medium term, to allow for a more
appropriate level of spending.
2.    At the same time, comprehensive structural reforms were envisaged to put in place the
institutional and legal framework to support a market economy. We are determined to push
decisively ahead with structural reform because, without it, sustained growth is not possible.
Provided there is macroeconomic stabilization, growth will be propelled by structural reforns
that enhance fiscal discipline; introduce competition and enhance the efficiency of the country's
monopolistic infrastructure sectors; develop the private sector; reform the banking sector; and
foster international trade and investment.
II, THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM
3.    The principal macroeconomic policy achievement during 1996 was our success at
securing fiscal stabilization. Through the implementation of a restrictive credit policy, monthly
inflation was reduced to the 1-2 percent range. The ruble was successfully guided through the
1 This Letter of Development Policy (LDP) for the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL2) builds on the
LDP for 1997 that accompanied the First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAI1), which was approved by the
World Bank Board on June 5, 1997. This Letter, therefore, should be read in conjunction with the earlier
LDP. This LDP concentrates on implementation of structural policy measures in 1997 that followed the
effectiveness and full disbursement of SAL1 (on June 17 and June 18, 1997, respectively). It also contains
certain structural policy measures for 1998; however, the complete set of structural and macreconomic
policy measures for 1998 is still being developed by the Govemment, the World Bank and the IMF.



Attachment 4                           2
exchange rate corridors established for 1996 in spite of continuous uncertainties relating to the
presidential elections. The success achieved in 1996 in stabilization remained fragile, however,
because of the difficulties experienced in the area of fiscal policy. Uncertainties ahead of the
Presidential elections adversely affected government securities markets and raised federal
government interest expenditures significantly above program projections. This pressure was
exacerbated by a plummeting of tax revenues, leading to a major departure in the stance of fiscal
policy from what had been charted under the program. The Government attempted to redress the
situation through a series of revenue packages, but the implementation of measures in improving
collections was only partially successful, as fundamental changes were needed both in the tax-
paying culture and in the institutions charged with tax collection. Thus, revenues remained weak
throughout 1996, and given the need to avoid a disruptive compression of noninterest
expenditures, the federal and enlarged government deficits were allowed to rise to, respectively,
6.3 percent of GDP and 6.6 percent of GDP in 1996.
4.    Throughout 1997 many macroeconomic indicators have shown improved performance.
By October, inflation was 0.2 percent, bringing the 12-month increase in the price level to 12.9
percent--consistent with the program annual target of a monthly rate of 1 percent. There are
increasing signs of economic recovery, with small growth (about 1/4 percent) in real GDP from
January to October. The ruble has remained relatively stable. Foreign trade has been strong in
1997 (as it has been in the past few years); the current account balance is likely to be in surplus
of about 1/2 percent of GDP in 1997, with exports (dominated by energy resources and other raw
materials) outpacing imports by $20 billion. We have generally succeeded in keeping the foreign
trade regime quite liberal; average statutory import tariffs are below 15 percent.
Macro-Fiscal Balances
5.    Consistent with our desire to put government finances on a solid footing, in 1997 our goal
has been to limit the federal cash budget deficit to around 51A2 percent of GDP. Under the
umbrella of the revenue action plan, steps have been taken to fundamentally strengthen the
capabilities of tax collection agencies through significant organizational and procedural changes
aimed at enhancing tax compliance. These include the phased establishment of large taxpayer
units in 15 key regions to enhance compliance for large enterprises. We took the important step
towards an overhaul of the tax system by proposing a draft Tax Code, which has passed its first
reading in the Duma and we expect to be approved by the Duma in early 1998.
6.    Despite our other macroeconomic achievements, by third quarter of 1997 an already-
fragile fiscal stabilization has weakened further. For the January-September period, Government
cash revenue amounted to Rb 174 trillion, compared with the program target of Rb 191 trillion.
By squeezing cash spending, the Government managed to limit the cash deficit in January-
September to Rb 131 trillion, below the program ceiling of Rb 146 trillion, but this produced
large payables of budgetary organizations/receivables to enterprises. The federal cash budget
deficit stood at 5 percent of GDP.
7.   In the face of this macro-fiscal imbalance, the Government is strongly committed to
vigorously renewing the process of fiscal consolidation for the remainder of 1997 and for 1998.



3                            Attachment 4
We are now putting in place an expansive action program to accelerate improved tax collection
and reduce federal budget expenditures. Major steps that will be taken under this action program
are based on a robust multi-pronged approach and include: (i) the establishment of firm
expenditure control through the consolidation of all federal spending under the Treasury,
supported by sanctions against officials of institutions receiving budgetary resources for
undertaking expenditure liabilities not covered by budgetary funding, improved reporting of
expenditure arrears, and other effective expenditure control mechanisms; (ii) the termination of
noncash arrangements ("offsets") for clearing tax and spending arrears; (iii) the development and
implementation of a realistic spending plan to underpin the 1998 budget, including spending
norms for such items as electricity and heating; (iv) strong measures to improve tax collection,
including taking actions against large high-profile tax debtors and enterprises that do not carry
out the decisions of the Emergency Tax Commission (VChK), creating the infrastructure for
effective implementation of levies of execution on property of tax debtors, and accelerating tax
arrears rescheduling efforts; (v) introducing the invoice system for VAT collection and making
the transition to collection of VAT, profit taxes and excises based on the accrual method; and
(vi) inventorying all off-budget accounts of budgetary organizations.
Monetary and Credit Policy
8.    Monetary policy in 1997 has been directed at keeping downward pressure on inflation.
Firm domestic credit policies have contributed to a build-up in net and gross international
reserves and have maintained the exchange rate within the stronger part of its band. More
recently, Russian financial markets have been affected by the turmoil in international markets.
To stabilize financial markets, the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) increased official interest rates
on November 10.
9.   In addition, to provide guidance to market expectations over a longer horizon, the CBR
announced that a band exchange rate regime will apply for the next three years. While the overall
band will be wider than in the past to permit greater flexibility on the part of the CBR, a narrower
daily band for operational purposes will remain. We believe that this new system will support the
continued progress towards price stability and economic recovery.
III. THE STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
10.  In 1996, developments in the area of structural policy were mixed. While good progress
was made in implementing reforms in the banking sector, other reforms lagged behind
significantly, particularly in the areas of privatization, natural monopolies, and the social safety
net. By the beginning of 1997, we came to realize that the vast range of reforms targeted under
the structural program severely strained implementation capacity. Throughout 1997, especially
the second half of the year, we have pushed decisively ahead with structural reform in five key
areas: (i) structural fiscal reform--rationalizing the tax structure, improving tax administration,
strengthening budget management, and reforming intergovernmental fiscal relations; (ii) private
sector development--revitalizing the enterprise privatization program, establishing institutions
and policies to foster competition, creating functioning markets for urban land and real estate



Attachment 4                           4
(which are critical for new business startups), and further developing capital markets; (iii) reform
of natural monopolies--orienting prices so as to better reflect cost and demand conditions,
reducing payment arrears and strengthening payment discipline, enhancing regulatory oversight
(where necessary), and restructuring sectors so as to allow for the competitive provision of
services; (iv) banking reform--putting in place an effective approach for dealing with illiquid and
insolvent banks, improving bank accounting and supervision, and reforming the money markets
and payment systems; and (v) trade policy reform--preserving the degree of liberalization that
has already been achieved, laying the basis for eventual further liberalization of trade and foreign
investment, phasing out the programs of oil exports for State needs, and putting into place a
market-based system for access to oil transportation capacity in constrained pipelines.
11.   For the remainder of 1997 and for 1998, we are determnined to preserve what has been
already achieved in various key areas of structural reform. Among others, no measures will be
adopted that would restrict the existing rights of land ownership; no initiatives will be taken to
nationalize privately owned or privatized enterprises; and no quantitative restrictions will be
introduced on international trade transactions, with the possible exception of any protectionist
measures that might be taken fully consistent with WTO rules. We will also strive to reduce
import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an eventual reduction in import tariffs.
A. Natural Monopolies Policy
Promote More Competitive Market Structures For The Energy And Infrastructure
Industries
12.   Power Sector
a)    The Government has established an Inter-Ministerial working group to ensure that its
reform agenda for the power sector would be pursued. Improvements in corporate governance
were punctuated during the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of RAO UES on May
28, 1997, when the leadership for the reform agenda was established.
b)    The Government has created a Independent Financial Operator (IFO) to establish a
competitive wholesale electricity market under FEC Protocol #97 dated June 25, 1997. It is in the
process of establishing a Supervisory Council for the Wholesale Market composed of
representatives of market participants (with no participant having a dominant position). The
composition of the Supervisory Council will be finalized by the end of February, 1998.
c)    The FEC has made public preliminary wholesale market agreements under FEC Protocol
#104, dated August 29, 1997. These contractual agreements specify the duties and
responsibilities of current participants in the competitive Wholesale Market, and were issued by
the IFO in September, 1997. Direct agreements between energy producers and consumers have
also been drafted and will be approved by the FEC by end-November, 1997. Two generation
companies and four customers are currently operating in the Wholesale Market and expansion is
actively being pursued. A comprehensive Wholesale Market Agreement is currently being



5                             Attachment 4
drafted, and will be circulated to all participants in the Wholesale Market for their review and
comment by end December, 1997. The Wholesale Market Agreement will be formally adopted
by February 28, 1998.
d)    By December 31, 1997, the Government will establish a plan to create a sufficient
number of generation companies independent of RAO UES Rossii to establish a competitive
wholesale market. RAO UES has engaged consultants to assist in the development of a sector
restructuring program and implementation program. The results of their assessment were
presented to RAO UES in early October. Russian power sector specialists have been engaged to
review this work and assist in preparing a recommendation to the Government. A program of
actions will be agreed upon for implementation during 1998.
e)    The FEC has submitted a letter to the Government, dated August 20, 1997, articulating
the general principles for commercial licensing of participants in the wholesale power market.
The Government has submitted a draft law on licensing to the Duma, including amendments with
regard to licensing for activities in the wholesale power (capacity) market and services for its
operations. The second reading of this law is scheduled for December 1997. When the law is
approved, the Government will issue a Resolution giving the FEC the exclusive right to issue
licenses for activities in the wholesale power (capacity) market to participants in the power
market.
f)    By January 31, 1998, the Government (FEC) will establish principles that will determine
market clearing prices of electricity sold on the National Energy Market. By February 28, 1998,
the Government will ensure that customers of the National Energy Market are able to obtain
access to the local distribution grid at fair and reasonable prices for power purchased on this
market. To complete the creation of independent wholesale market operators, by March 30, 1998,
all remaining wholesale market functions within RAO EES Rossii will be transferred to one or
more independent market operators under the control of the participants in the wholesale market.
g)    By January 31, 1998, the Government will establish principles and procedures to ensure
that the national dispatch center dispatches plants on a least cost basis.
13.   Natural Gas
a)    In Resolution No. 858 of July 14, 1997, the Government adopted procedures for granting
access by independent producers of gas to the pipelines of RAO Gazprom.
b)    In Resolution No. 1269 of September 30, 1997, the Government approved a regulation
outlining the responsibilities and operating procedures for the Inter-Branch Commission which
was formed under Resolution 858 to review issues related to access by independent producers.
c)   In accordance with Government Resolution #987 of August 7, 1997, the State Anti-
Monopoly Committee has registered RAO Gazprom as an economic entity controlling more than
35% of its corresponding market pursuant to the law "On Competition and Restriction of
Monopoly Activities in Commodity Markets".



Attachment 4                              6
d)    By November 30, 1997, the Government will review the effectiveness Presidential
Decree 628 of June 19, 1997 "On Lowering Gas Prices for Russian Consumers" as a means of
reducing non-payments. In the event that the Decree is extended, provision will be made to allow
local distribution companies to extend these same discounts to their customers, provided that the
customers meet the conditions outlined in the Decree.
e)    The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has established a group within the Ministry to review
further structural changes necessary to improve the efficiency of natural gas supply.
14.   Railways
a)    In the April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree 426, the Government took actions to set forth
the main thrust of structural reform in the railway sector. The decree set forth a staged plan of
restructuring over a three year period. With respect to improving the railway's competitive
market structure, the following measures were included on the agenda for 1997: (a) to introduce
a new procedure of Government regulation of freight tariffs that would take into account pattern
and volume of traffic, increases in labor productivity, restructuring and cost-cutting measures,
etc. (b) to phase-out cross-subsidization of passenger losses by freight customers and provide
compensation of passenger losses in Federal and local budgets as appropriate; (c) to lower freight
tariffs; (d) to separate unused facilities and divest these and other ancillary activities; (e) to create
conditions for the development of competition in the rail services market which would provide
equal access to rail infrastructure and repair facilities to different owners of rolling stock; (f) to
complete the setting up of the Federal Service to Regulate Natural Monopolies in Transport.
b)    For most products, preferential tariffs will expire by December 31, 1997. The MPS has
drafted regulations providing for elimination of most of the remaining preferential tariffs as of
December 31, 1997. To enhance transparency regarding the provision of preferential tariffs and
to clarify the framework under which regional railways can offer discounts to shippers, and in
compliance with clause 4 of Government Resolution #410 of April 8, 1997, by November 20,
1997, the FSNMT will issue regulations and methodologies governing railway tariffs, including
discounts and preferential tariffs.
c)    On September 30, 1997, the Government issued a resolution reducing average rates for
freight (total revenues divided by ton-kilometers) by 5 percent compared to rates effective in
September 1, 1997.
d)    Several other freight rate reductions were introduced as of July 1, 1997 including (a)
reductions on specific commodities at specific rates, as set forth in a June 13, 1997 minutes of a
meeting held by First Deputy Prime Minister Nemtsov with Deputy Ministers of MOE, MOF
and MPS; and, (b) on new traffic (against previous year totals for individual shippers) provided
the increase is of certain volume (3000 tons), and on existing traffic to shippers relative to the
time of downpayment.



7                             Attachment 4
e)   In order to ascertain the overall reduction in freight rates engendered by the above-
mentioned measures, by March 1, 1998, MPS will provide to the Government a report that
demonstrates an accounting of the effect on revenues and traffic volumes of all the proposed
tariff discounts for all of 1997, including those discounts of July 1, 1997.
f)    By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Railroads will make public an action plan for
separating passenger and freight services (including accounts) which will identify major assets
and employee groups to be allocated to each business.
Phase Out Cross-Subsidies And Introduce Pricing Principles For Natural Monopoly
Services In The Electricity, Gas, And Rail Sectors Which Will Encourage Efficient
Production And Usage
15.   Electric Power
a)    The Government has outlined general pricing principles and procedures for encouraging
efficient production and usage of electric power, and these will continue to be refined and made
more detailed.
b)    The Government introduced a two-block tariff for household electricity consumption that
is differentiated by levels of consumption; this policy is based upon recommendations from the
FEC dated April 25, 1997. Implementation has been undertaken in most regions. The
implementation of this policy will become more extensive.
c)    Cross-subsidies are being reduced. The Government introduced Resolution #1231 on
September 26, 1997 in which a schedule for the elimination of cross-subsidies was introduced.
d)   Industrial customers that clear their arrears and pay cash in advance receive electricity at
an economically efficient price. In June, RAO UES announced that, as of July 1997, it would
accept cash payments only (eliminating barter, promissory notes and limited use of mutual
settlements). Improvements have been gradual (as existing barter agreements had to be
respected) but significant. Cash payments for RAO UES transmission services have nearly
doubled between June and September. This has enabled RAO UES to fully pay its tax
obligations for 1997, and become current with its salary payments to staff.
16.   Natural Gas
a)    The Ministry of Economy has prepared a draft Discussion Paper (October 14, 1997)
outlining general pricing principles and procedures to encourage efficient production and usage
of natural gas. The draft principles also provide that, until a competitive market for gas
production is introduced, wholesale gas prices will be regulated: (a) at the city gate, with tariffs
of gas transmission set separately; or, (b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas
transmission prices, each set separately. The FEC has issued Resolution No. 119/6, dated
October 31, 1997, establishing the procedures for regulating wholesale gas prices. The Ministry



Attachment 4                              8
of Fuel and Energy has initiated negotiations with the firm of consultants selected to carry out a
World Bank-financed Gas Pricing Study starting November 4, 1997, which will assist the
Government to define the detailed pricing methodology and procedures to be applied in setting
gas prices at various levels in the gas supply chain.
b)    In July, 1997, the Federal Energy Commission published temporary rules and procedures
for setting differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas.
c)    FEC Resolution 110 of September 26, 1997, provides that, effective December 1, 1997,
the regional wholesale natural gas price differential between the minimum and maximum price
will be increased from the current level of 12 percent to at least 25 percent.
d)    By December 31, 1997, the FEC will begin to develop the principles for setting retail
prices for gas distribution companies, including principles for phasing out cross-subsidies in
retail sales of natural gas. These principles will be approved by March 31, 1998. By September
1, 1998, the regulatory framework and specific guidelines for phasing out cross-subsidies will be
formalized and approved.
e)    By December 31, 1997 the Govemrnment will begin to delegate the power to implement
the regulation of gas prices for final consumers to the regional energy commissions according to
pricing principles and procedures prepared by the FEC. The process of delegation of
responsibilities to the regions will be completed by November, 1998. In the interim, the FEC will
take into account customer mix and residential retail prices in establishing the distribution retail
prices on industrial sales for local distribution companies under its authority.
17.   Railways
a)    The Government is establishing general pricing principles and procedures that will help
to encourage efficient provision and usage of railway services. In compliance with Government
Resolution #410 of April 8, 1997, an order dated May 14, 1997 was jointly issued by the
Ministry of Railways and Ministry of Economy that outlines a methodology for regulating
railway freight tariffs.
b)    Resolution #410 also ordered that changes in railway tariffs and fee rates shall not exceed
the index of wholesale prices for industrial goods producers across the Russian Federation in the
respective period. This measure is evidence that the Government is coming to grips with the
problem that rail rates have risen faster than inflation. However, in order to ensure that the effects
of this measure are long-lasting, future indexation should not be automatic as it has in the.past
since there is agreement that freight rates can be further reduced. As it may be difficult to
evaluate, on a timely basis, submissions by MPS of cost data justifying tariff increases, a simpler
approach under consideration is to permit automatic indexing of freight rates to the wholesale
industrial price index and promote additional reductions on the overall levels. Specifically, the
FSNMT is considering limiting the overall increase of average freight rates in 1998 to the
wholesale price index minus 3 percentage points, to be measured on a quarterly basis, i.e. 0.75%
per quarter.



9                             Attachment 4
c)    The present pricing methodology mentions the need to take into account railway
restructuring plans and cost-reduction measures, but does not explicitly tie the railways to any
specific restructuring plan. In the longer term, it is anticipated that the railways will restructure in
a way that would make the industry more competitive and commercial. Thus, in time, it is hoped
tariff regulation of freight traffic would be based more on an exception basis, where there is little
competition or a clear possibility for abuse of monopoly power. In the meantime, however, as
passenger losses are shifted to the budget, manufacturing and social assets divested and other
cost-cutting measure introduced, it is anticipated that there should be additional decreases in the
minimum freight tariff rates. Therefore, by January 15, 1998 the FSNMT, together with MOE,
MOF and the Anti-Monopoly Committee, will develop an action plan and proposed targets for
achieving further rate reductions in the coming year, in conjunction with proposed rail
restructuring plans.
d)    Cross-subsidies of passenger losses through freight rates are being phased out by a
combination of measures including: raising passenger fares; devolving suburban services to
municipal and regional Governments and ensuring that losses on these services are compensated
through budgets of subjects of the Federation as appropriate; by separating passenger from
freight services and taking measures to cut costs where appropriate; by compensating intercity
passenger losses through the Federal budget and/or eliminating remaining federal privileges on
the fares of individual passenger categories. On September 15, 1997 the Government issued
Resolution No. 389, which, effective that day, increased intercity passenger rates by 10 percent;
destinations to the Baltics and CIS countries were increased 65%.
e)    The Government has agreed to develop proposals on budget subsidization of railway
passenger traffic. It was also agreed that the remaining federal privileges on the fares of
individual passenger categories are to be financed from the federal budget. In the draft budget, a
sum of Rb 450 billion was included for Federal compensation of intercity passenger losses. In
the process of budget discussions in the State Duma, the Ministry of Finance will finalize the
scale of the use of federal and other budgetary resources for financing of railway passenger
losses. MPS is in the process of entering into contracts with municipalities that would include
provisions for subsidies of suburban services. The Government is also studying the cost of
federally mandated exemptions with a view toward reducing these. To determine the adequacy of
the Federal budget allocation, it is necessary to calculate the cost of federally mandated
passenger exemptions as well as to refine calculations of passenger losses. To this end, MOE,
MPS and FSNMT shall develop a methodology and calculate the variable costs of intercity
passenger carriage, excluding track maintenance of the network which could be realistically
assigned to freight traffic, and to assess the revenue impact of the recently enacted passenger fare
increases. By March 1, 1998, the Ministry of Economy and MPS will prepare a report to the
Government assessing what passenger losses have been for 1996-1997, based on this calculation
and data on passenger revenues for 1996-1997.



Attachment 4                           10
Reduce Payment Arrears On Electricity And Natural Gas Utility Bills And Improve The
Flow Of Payments In The Fuel And Energy Sector
18.   As it has throughout 1997, in 1998, the Govermnent will ensure that there are no arrears
to energy suppliers on account of the remaining strategic customers. The Government has
adopted Resolution # 928 of July 27, 1997 that establishes a procedure for clearing payment
arrears for supplied fuel and energy resources.
Further Strengthen The Regulation Of The Natural Monopoly Sectors
19.   The Government will ensure the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory
agencies for energy (FEC), transport (FSNMT), and telecommunications (FSRNMC). The
Govermment has appointed the head of the FSNMT; will approve the composition of the boards
of both the FSNMT and FSRNMC; provide adequate financing and office space for the agencies;
and ensure that staff and commissioners of the agencies will not be allowed to receive payments
or other financial consideration from regulated enterprises.
B. Private Sector Development
20.   4-Firm Case by Case Privatization Program
A.   The Ministry for State Property (MSP, former GKI) announced a change in the
composition of the firms to participate in the 4-firm pilot Case by Case Privatization Program, as
identified in earlier Government Resolutions Nos. 363 and 564, and GKI Directive No. 356-r due
to the fact that (i) Domodedovo Production Association for Civil Aviation is to be split into three
entities and (ii) Pulkovo Airlines and Rosgosstrakh are no longer under consideration to be
included in the CBC program (at least not in 1997). On July 31, 1997, GKI Directive 670-R
specified that the 4 participant firms are: Domodedovo Aeroservice, Domodedovo Airlines,
Kama Pulp and Paper, and Russkii Dizel.
B.   The above changes, in part, contributed to the inability to meet the June 30, 1997
program date for inviting financial advisors to submit bids to assist with the privatization of the
four firms and the August 31, 1997 deadline for the tender committees to issue tenders.
Following consultation with the World Bank, which is supporting (through the PIAL loan) the
technical assistance for completing 3 of the 4 pilot transactions, MSP issued in correspondence
dated October 10, 13, and 22, 1997, a timeline that specifies the complete timetable of actions to
be taken for all 4 firms. For the 3 transactions receiving financial support from the World Bank,
the key points of this timetable are: (i) "Bidding Package" (Letter of Invitation + Terms of
Reference + Standard Contract) to be sent to short-listed Financial Advisors (FAs) by the
following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: August 22, 1997, Domodedovo Airlines: August 28,
1997, and Russkii Dizel: October 24, 1997; (ii) Negotiations to commence with the selected FAs
by the following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: October 23, 1997 and Domodedovo Airlines:
October 22, 1997 and Russkii Dizel: January 5, 1998 (iii) Contracts to be signed with the



11                            Attachment 4
selected FAs by the following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: November 14, 1997, Domodedovo
Airlines: November 6, 1997; and Russkii Dizel by January 26, 1998.
C.   Under the program, there is a deadline that by December 31, 1997, the tender committees
will close the tenders and select the winners while issuing public offerings as needed. In the case
where it becomes impossible to privatize one of the four companies as planned, because of
insurmountable legal or technical difficulties that constitute a case of "force majeure", the
Government will substitute another company from the original list of ten; alternatively, substitute
firms will be selected after consultation with the World Bank. In light of the changes to the
earlier portions of the schedule, this timetable has been modified: (i) The tender committees will
issue the tenders on the sales, with wide domestic and international publicity, by the following
dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: May 15, 1998, Domodedovo Airlines: April 24, 1998, and Russkii
Dizel: July 17, 1998; (ii) Collection of tender bids shall be held open until the following dates:
Kama Pulp and Paper: August 15, 1998, Domodedovo Airlines: July 24, 1998, and Russkii Dizel
by October 17, 1998.
D.   In MSP's timeline issued on October 22, 1997, MSP specified a timetable for the
privatization of Domodedovo Aeroservice, carried out in accordance with Government
Resolutions 363 and 564, and GKI Directive 356-r. The timetable indicates that the decision on
the method of privatization will be made on January 30, 1998, following the completion of the
work of the financial advisors.
21.   Privatization Program for 1998-99
A.   The Government is committed to implementing future privatisations on the basis of a
common framework of principles and procedures that ensures transparency, openness and
competition. The methods for carrying out future privatisations shall be "commercial competitive
bidding", and "auctions" or "specialised auctions" as defined in law, including "On Privatising
State Property and on the Principles of Privatising Municipal Property in the Russian Federation"
adopted by the State Duma on 24th June, 1997 (the Privatisation Law). In accordance with the
relevant laws, bidding procedures will encourage all interested parties to participate;
privatisations will be widely advertised, including internationally where this could attract
additional qualified buyers; when employed, financial advisers will be reputable, and engaged
through a transparent, competitive process; conflicts of interest will be avoided; and bid
evaluations will be carried out objectively.
B.    In accordance with the Privatisation Law, in August, 1997 the Government submitted to
the State Duma the "State Programme of Privatisation in the Russian Federation" (State
Privatisation Programme), which identifies two lists: (i) 37 state enterprises held in federal
property and subject to reorganisation into open joint stock companies and privatisation
beginning in 1998; and (ii) 29 open joint stock companies whose federally held shares are subject
to sale beginning in 1998. Not counting the four pilot case-by-case transactions initiated in 1997,
at least a quarter of the enterprises which are on the lists (i) and (ii) above, and which will
experience continuation of privatisation measures initiated in 1997 or initiation of such measures



Attachment 4                           12
in 1998, will be privatised through "case-by-case" transactions as defined by Government
Resolutions 363 and 564-R of 1997 (involving in particular the engagement of financial advisers
as early as possible in the process), and building on any experience from the four pilots. The
Government will take all reasonable steps to ensure State Duma deliberation on the State
Privatisation Programme, and to facilitate its passage. Should the State Duma not approve the
legislation in a timely fashion, the Government will take all necessary and feasible steps in
conformity with the legislation in force to enable the privatisations referred to in (i) and (ii)
above to proceed in 1998-99 in accordance with the approaches defined above.
C.   By 31st December, 1997 the Ministry of State Property will send to the World Bank for
information the indicative list of the firms whose privatisation is envisaged in 1998 and 1999 in
accordance with the preceding paragraph, and an indicative quarterly timetable of actions
therefor; it will also send to the World Bank for information an update of this list/timetable every
six months thereafter.
22. Competitive Framework for Trust Management in Preparation for Later Privatization
A.   Government Resolution # 989 (issued August 7, 1997) on the "Procedure for Transferring
Federally Owned Shares of Joint Stock Companies Created in the Course of Privatization to
Trust Managers and Concluding Trust Management Agreements Regarding those Shares" met
many, but not all, of the criteria set out under the program for implementing market-based
guidelines for trust management arrangements, including the competitive selection of trust
managers. MSP will issue a directive by November 30, 1997 that contains detailed implementing
regulations that specify: (a) a trust management contract has the objective of improving the
financial operation of enterprises and to prepare them for privatization following the expiration
of the contract; (b) contracts are to specify performance based compensation linked to financial
results; (c) compensation is to be paid through the term of the contract, not a lump-sum paid at
the contract's expiration. It is noted, that according to Article 1015 of the Second Part of the
Civil Code, property shall not be subject to transfer under trust management to a state agency or
a local self-government body. An individual entrepreneur or a for-profit organization except for a
unitary enterprise may act as a trust manager. In accordance with Government Resolution 989,
evaluation of contract bids is to be carried out using methods that are consistent with
international standards of competition, neutrality and equity.
B.   Under the program, five large enterprises outside the coal sector were to be selected and
to enter into pilot trust management arrangements by December 31, 1997, unless a decision was
made by MSP to privatize these companies earlier instead. Six oil companies were chosen, and
the privatization option was selected: Vostsibneftegas; Eastern Oil Company; Siberian and Urals
Oil and Gas Chemical Company "Sibur"; Tiumen Oil Company "TNK"; Oil Company "Komi
TEK"; and Oil Company "NORSI-OIL". The privatization of these firms, including controlling,
voting shares, is to be made through "specialized auctions" on a transparent and competitive
basis and open to all interested investors, and subject to principles consistent with the new case-
by-case framework as specified by Government Resolutions 363 and 564, and GKI Directive
356-r. MSP is to ensure that, 30 days prior to the auction of each these firms, individual
advertisements for the sales shall be placed in widely read international publications.



13                           Attachment 4
23. Facilitate Market-Based Exit Of Non-Viable Enterprises by Improving the Legal
Framework For Bankruptcy and Carrying Out Pilot Bankruptcies Under the New Legal
Framework.
A.   The Government has sent a draft bankruptcy law to the Duma, which has passed its first
reading. Relative to current law, the new draft provides for: (i) an increased role for creditor
committees in the resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) more expeditious appointment on a
competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent enterprise managers;
(iii) differentiation of classes of creditors; and (iv) stricter observance of time limits for workout
and liquidation proceedings by all parties.
B.    In addition to the actions aimed at improving the bankruptcy legislative framework, the
restructuring process in the Russian economy could be expedited by implementing pilot projects
targeted towards bankruptcy of insolvent enterprises in cases that are especially difficult in such
a way that minimizes possible negative social consequences of bankruptcy. For such purposes,
and taking into account the basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy Law, the Government of the
Russian Federation will approve, by adopting appropriate directives, in the first quarter of 1998,
a procedure for implementing and financing bankruptcy pilot projects involving insolvent
enterprises. In compliance with the above mentioned procedure as well as in accordance with the
goals outlined in the first sentence of the current paragraph, the Federal Service on Bankruptcy
Matters and Financial Rehabilitation, shall implement in 1998 at least 4 bankruptcy pilots
embracing large enterprises that experience serious financial difficulties and have bad market
prospects. The results of the pilots implemented will be widely reflected in a report of the
Federal Service of Russia for Bankruptcy Matters and Financial Rehabilitation to (i) provide
arbitrators with data on the relevant procedures; (ii) provide creditors and other persons
concerned with the most detailed information about the mechanisms and advantages of hearing
bankruptcy cases in the court.
24.   Urban Land and Real Estate
A.   Under the program, by June 30, 1997 a presidential decree was to be issued to cover four
main goals to foster land/real estate transactions: (i) create a legal framework requiring that the
sale of all premises belonging to the federal Government which are currently under lease to
commercial entities be carried out at market rates; (ii) eliminate all existing restrictions on the
market sale of such real estate; (iii) all future leases of the federal owned property will be at
market prices; and (iv) recommend that all the procedures outlined in the decree be followed by
regional and local Governments. A presidential decree was not issued; a new privatization law
was passed by the Duma in June and a draft privatization program was tabled in the Duma in
July; the privatization program is expected to be adopted by year-end 1997. An analysis was
performed by MSP that assesses the nature of the gaps between the earlier agreed objectives and
the privatization law/program. The analysis indicates that many of the above-mentioned
objectives are covered.



Attachment 4                            14
B.    A presidential decree was issued in November 1997 to establish a legal framework for
market-based sales of undeveloped land and/or land not currently in use (including
nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used for commercial development, including
through auctions and competitive tenders.
C.    In December 1997, model municipal regulations and procedures will be prepared for the
sale of unoccupied and/or undeveloped land through auctions and competitive tenders.
25.   Capital Markets
A.   By August 31, 1997, the Government was to have approved for public comment an
agreed Action Program to introduce generally accepted accounting principles consistent with
International Accounting Standards (IAS); due to delays in creating the relevant interministerial
body, the Action Plan will be ready no later than November 30, 1997.
B.    The Action Program will: (i) identify any necessary amendments to laws or other
normative acts to facilitate the use of IAS by Russian issuers in disclosure of financial
information; (ii) require the MOF to approve regulations by October 31, 1997 mandating IAS-
consistent disclosure by January 1998 of financial information to investors by Russian
enterprises which have a significant secondary market in their securities or which propose to
offer their securities to the public, and to require the same for all other enterprises by January
1999; and (iii) outline a strategy and timetable for adaptation of the entire accounting system for
enterprises to bring it into conformity with international practices. This strategy and timetable
will include: steps for transition to a revised chart of accounts; a plan for training of accounting
personnel; further improvement of the process of certification of professional accountants and
auditors; and an approach to developing accounting and audit practices such that any authorized
system using accounting information will not preclude IAS-consistent financial accounting
information. With respect to (ii), the MOF has issued the above specified regulations on
October 14, 1997.
C.    As part of the draft Tax Code, which has passed its first reading in the Duma, the
Government has submitted draft legislation to introduce an improved framework for the taxation
of capital income. This framework includes shifts toward: (i) uniformity of tax rates and
treatment for securities and other financial assets, including removal of tax privileges or
exemptions for specific types of securities; (ii) elimination of double taxation on investment
through collective investment vehicles such as mutual funds; (iii) deductibility of capital losses
from the sale of securities. Moreover, the draft Tax Code does not stipulate any transaction taxes
or fees on the circulation of securities.
D.   A parallel set of activities to those listed above under 25 A. and B. regarding the
introduction of financial accounts based on international standards are to be undertaken to
introduce independent audits of such accounts in enterprises. In particular, by December 15,
1997 the Government will approve and publish for public comment an agreed Action Program to
require, no later than June 1999, independent audits of the financial accounts of enterprises.



15                           Attachment 4
D. Fiscal Policy
26.   Undertake fundamental tax reform to strengthen the revenue base while reducing
the distortionary impact of the tax system
a.    The draft Tax Code has passed its first reading in the State Duma. The Government
continues working closely with the State Duma to secure final adoption of the Code on a timely
basis. The Government will provide for efficient implementation of key reform measures under
the Tax Code, which include inter alia training for federal and regional officials in the application
of the Code; and a public information campaign to educate the public about changes in their
rights and obligations under the new Code.
b.   In an effort to establish an instrument for the regular and accurate monitoring and
assessment of tax expenditures, an amendment was made to the draft Budget Code in September
1997 for consideration by the State Duma in the second reading, so as to make the evaluation of
actual Government tax expenditures a mandatory component of the annual budget execution
reports at all levels of Government.
27.   Develop an efficient and impartial tax administration that can overcome a pervasive
"non-payment culture," through a broad based reform of management, procedures, and
practices of the State Tax Service (STS) and Customs Committee and improved
coordination with other agencies including tax and border police
a.    As of September 30, 1997, the Government has established and made operational large
taxpayer units of the Federal State Tax Service in five regions. The Government intends to
further improve the effectiveness of these five units and establish large taxpayer units by
December 31, 1997 in 11 more regions.
b.    The Revenue Action Plan adopted by the Government in November/December 1996 has
been continuing to serve as the framework for the 1997 program in the area of tax administration.
This action plan will be expanded as required in the context of ongoing technical assistance
work. The immediate priorities include (i) the formulation of a realistic expenditure plan for
1998, including the introduction of the spending limits on electricity, heating and other energy
expenditures; (ii) strengthening expenditure control mechanisms, including sanctions against
government officials who violate spending ceilings; and (iii) stronger efforts to improve tax
collection, including the acceleration of tax arrears rescheduling
28.  Improve the system and process of budget and treasury management
Maximize transparency and minimize disruptions through ad-hoc sequestration
a. As of September 30, 1997, the Government has kept its cash budget expenditures in line with
its sequestration budget proposed to the Duma in late April and the cash deficit remained under



Attachment 4                           16
control. The Government has proposed measures which will ensure that in 1998 new expenditure
control mechanisms will keep its spending commitments in line with the approved budget.
Control spending commitments and phase-out budget arrears through enhanced
monitoring and the strengthening of Treasury control over budgetary payments
b.    As of October 31, 1997, all federal pension arrears and all federal wage arrears have been
repaid by the Government.
c.    The Ministry of Finance will by November 30, 1997, complete an assessment of the level
and structure of federal budgetary arrears to suppliers as of June 30, 1997. The Government
adopted a decision to instruct the Ministry of Finance and Goskomstat to develop a statistical
format for monthly reporting by budgetary organization on the stock of their outstanding arrears
to suppliers, starting in January 1997.
d.    A Presidential Decree was signed and became effective on November 7, 1997 to (i)
instruct the federal Government to end, as of January 1, 1998, the use of all types of mutual
offsets, including cash offsets, for clearing federal tax and budgetary arrears; and (ii) recommend
to regional Governments to end, as of January 1, 1998, the use of arrears offset arrangements at
the regional level.
e.    Further to Government Resolutions #903, 927, 928, on September 2, 1997, the
Government issued Resolution #1129, amending the framework for clearing the existing stock of
energy arrears (budgetary arrears to energy suppliers and suppliers' tax arrears). For 1998, the
Ministry of Finance will develop a procedure to strengthen Treasury control over payments to
energy suppliers by budget organizations and government agencies, so as to prevent the
unauthorized reallocation of budget funds to other categories of expenditures and help reduce
budget arrears to energy providers. At the same time, 1998 budget allocations will provide
sufficient funding for financing energy consumption within agreed limits. (Ref.: GOR Resolution
No. 1129).
Switch to new computerized Treasury system of accounting
f.    The Government has made substantial progress in introducing the computerized treasury
system of accounting and direct payments. The volume of payments processed by the federal
Treasury has been steadily increased through 1997 and as of September 30, 1997, the
Government is processing 31 percent of the monthly outlays of the federal budget through this
system. In the context of broad reform of the budget execution system, the Govermnent will
during 1998: (i) develop a system with a single Treasury account; (ii) transfer off-budgetary
accounts of budgetary organizations to the Treasury; (iii) issue regulations and streamline
procedures of the Treasury system of budget execution, including procedures for main
distributors and end-users of budgetary funds; (iv) unify the information and telecommunication
systems of the Treasury; and (v) serve budgetary organizations, located in the regions without
federal Treasury branches, by Treasury branches in neighboring regions. (Ref. Government
Resolution #1082)



17                           Attachment 4
Move extrabudgetary funds onto the budget and the treasury system
g.    The Government's draft 1998 budget submission to the Duma includes the draft budgets
of the social extrabudgetary funds in parallel with the federal budget.
Establish sound legal-institutional basis for budget and treasury management
h.    A new draft Budget Code developed by the Govermment and the State Duma has been
passed in its first reading by the State Duma. Its provisions on budget responsibilities,
comprehensiveness, unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc. provide a solid basis for
regularizing the entire sphere of budget operations and dramatically improving their transparency
and efficiency.
29.   Rationalize Government spending
a.    The Government has undertaken a number of steps to accelerate reforms in the housing
sector and to reduce the fiscal burden associated with housing subsidies, which are the single
largest subsidy item remaining in the fiscal system. A Government Commission was established
to oversee housing and utility reforms, led by the First Deputy Prime Minister. The Government
has approved a system of federal standards in housing policy, which provides subnational
Governments with explicit benchmarks for reform implementation and budget savings. The
Commission has worked out a medium term plan for the preparation of Government decisions to
accelerate sector reforms. As a result, average housing (utility and maintenance) prices charged
to households have risen by 10 percent in real terms, as of the end of September 1997, compared
to the end of 1996.
b.    The Government has submitted to the State Duma an draft law to reform public
procurement procedures requiring standardized, competitive, open, and nondiscriminatory
bidding procedures which has passed its first reading.
c.    As of June 30, 1997 all grain and food procurement using federal budgetary funds is
subject to competitive tendering.
d.    The Government has conducted no less than 10 competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued
in excess of Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.
30.  Improve system of intergovernmental fiscal relations
Rationalize tax sharing and transfer arrangements and introduce conditional transfers to
encourage local reforms
a.    The Government has decided to undertake a comprehensive restructuring of
intergovernmental fiscal relations and set up a Working Group of its Government Commission



Attachment 4                            18
on Economic Reforms to develop the reform program. The Working Group has developed a
program for restructuring the current system of federal budget transfers to regions for 1998-99.
The draft Tax Code, as well as the Federal law "On fundamental financial principles of local self-
governance in the Russian Federation", adopted on September 25, 1997, provide a new legal
framework for intergovernmental tax revenue sharing. The Government will introduce
amendments to the Law on Fiscal Foundations of Local Self-governance to make it fully
consistent with the provisions of the Tax and Budget Codes (sections concerning
intergovernmental fiscal relations).
b.    The Government's draft 1998 budget submitted to the State Duma in late August 1997:
(i) requires a concentration of federal transfers among the most needy regions; (ii) reflects the
recommendations of the Protocol of the Commission on Housing Reform of July 22, 1997 and
makes the level of equalization transfers to regions conditional on compliance with federal
housing standards; and (iii) introduces a separate mechanism for ear-marked federal transfers to
regional Medical Insurance Funds.
c.    An Instruction was issued by Government Commission on Housing and Utility Reform in
August, 1997 that specifies rules and procedures for deternining the level of federal transfers to
regions conditional on the extent of compliance with federal housing standards.
d.    By November 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution authorizing the Economic
Reform Commission to develop, by January 31, 1998: (i) the concept of reforming the system of
interbudgetary fiscal transfers; and (ii) an action plan and implementation schedule, starting from
a detailed survey of the reform program (including consultations with regional bodies of
executive power and the State Duma), and stipulating its incorporation in the Government's draft
budget for 1999. In accordance with that resolution, the Government's concept of reforming the
system of interbudgetary fiscal relations would include: (i) rationalization of the system used to
classify regions into categories; (ii) changing the criteria determining the amount of transfers
(based on the assessment of the regional GDP and/or fiscal capacity of the region, and standards,
level and cost of provision of public services); (iii) introduction of arrangements that would
encourage regions to implement reforms in the budget sector; (iv) introduction of conditionalities
of transfers (including the implementation of satisfactory independent audits of the budget and
ensuring compliance with the federal legislation); (v) gradual transition to the delivery of federal
transfers exclusively through the Treasury system; and (vi) introduction of special transfer
arrangements for regions heavily dependent on federal transfers.
Put in place improved regulation of subnational borrowing
e.    The draft law regulating subnational borrowing that had been submitted by the
Government to the State Duma in May 1997 has been passed in its first reading. With its passage
and final enactment remaining uncertain at this time, as of mid-November, 1997, the
Government has submitted to the Office of the President a draft Presidential Decree to regulate
subnational Governments' external borrowing through issuance of securities. The draft decree (i)
requires, inter alia, the compliance of borrowing subnational governments with federal fiscal



19                           Attachment 4
regulations; and (ii) includes monitorable ceilings on both the total debt stock and the annual
debt service flow of subnational Governments. Until relevant regulation becomes effective,
through either law or Presidential Decree, the Ministry of Finance will not register international
security issues by subnational Governments, and any such registration would require, at a
minimum, compliance with the conditions on subnational borrowing by the regions of Moscow,
Nizhniy Novgorod, and St. Petersburg outlined in Presidential Decree No. 304 of April 8, 1997.
Moreover, the federal Government continues to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by
subnational entities.
E. Banking Sector Issues and Monetary Management
31.   Facilitate resolution of illiquid or insolvent banks
On the basis of plans submitted by problem banks, CBR has decided whether these banks are to
be recapitalized and rehabilitated, or whether other statutory procedures as per the banking
legislation should be applied, including the withdrawal of bank licenses. Of 27 identified
problem banks in the top 200 banks, 10 banks have had their licenses withdrawn. A number of
banks have had their licenses restricted.
32.   Put in place effective bank bankruptcy and liquidation legislation
Legislation on bankruptcy of financial institutions was submitted to and passed in its first reading
by the State Duma in June. The Government and the CBR will take measures to ensure State
Duma deliberation of the law on bankruptcy of lending institutions with the next reading
expected later in 1997, and will take steps to facilitate passage of this law.
33.   Ensure that any deposit guarantee scheme that is adopted has prudent coverage of
financial institutions and deposits and is self-financing
The Government and the CBR will take measures to ensure State Duma deliberation of the law
on deposit insurance and will take steps to facilitate passage of this law. Any deposit insurance
schemes that is implemented will be funded only by premiums of participating banks and the
associated investment income, with no use of CBR or government resources. The second reading
of this draft law is expected later in 1997.
34.   Strengthen banking supervision through greater use of on-site inspections and
improved prudential regulations
A.    On-site inspections of another 15 of the 100 largest banks have been completed in the
third quarter of 1997. In the first nine months of 1997, 68 bank inspections have been completed.



Attachment 4                           20
B.   The CBR has continued to improve the system of prudential regulations established by
Instruction 1 of January 30, 1996, with a view to moving prudential regulations closer to
international standards. During 1997, the CBR has, inter alia: revised procedures for calculating
banks' own resources (capital); increased capital adequacy requirements and lowered the tied
credit ratio; and introduced necessary changes in the calculation of banks' prudential
requirements, with a view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and liabilities.
35.   Reform  accounting requirements for banks by moving toward international
standards
A.   The CBR, MinFin, and STS will revise the procedure of making and use of loan
provisions, with a view to making the necessary reserves in all cases where repayment in full is
considered unlikely, including cases where loans are not currently nonperforming but there are
reasons to believe that the borrower is insolvent. In doing so, the CBR, the Ministry of Finance,
and the State Tax Service will not allow banks' tax burdens to increase unduly as a result of the
new provisioning rules.
B.   The finalized chart of accounts will be applied by lending institutions in their operations
as of January 1, 1998. By end-1997, the CBR will prepare a regulation establishing consolidated
reporting rules effective January 1, 1999. In adopting International Accounting Standards and a
new taxation system, the CBR will aim at shifting to accrual-basis accounting.
36.  Improve functioning of money markets by putting in place new  monetary
instruments and developing open market operations to give banks the liquidity
management tools available in other developed banking systems
A.   The Central Bank has drafted regulations specifying the procedures for conducting
transactions for giving Lombard credits and same-day settlement loans collateralized with
government securities basing on preliminary deposits of securities by banks on special DEPO
bank subaccounts. The Central Bank will approve the above regulations to the end of providing
for their implementation.
B.   The CBR will put in place an arrangement to allow primary dealers to take short positions
in government securities, and it will also repeal the prohibition on the use by all banks of
government securities as collateral, and will ensure that mechanisms are in place to pledge
collateral for same-day transactions.
C.    CBR will take steps to establish an interbank repo market for a wide number of banks
both in Moscow and in the regions.
37.  Improve payment system by introducing a real-time gross settlement system and
providing incentives for banks to use new electronic settlement services
A.   In June and July 1997, the CBR issued normative concepts for the Real-Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) system and for the development of the settlements system.



21                           Attachment 4
B.   By January 1, 1998, the CBR aims to establish an RTGS system in the Moscow region.
C.   Prices for settlement services will be introduced as of January 1, 1998.
F. Trade Policy
38.  Introduce an enduring regime providing for liberalized international trade and
investment.
a)    Under the program , trade policy commitments have been made to preserve what
liberalization has already been achieved. No quantitative restrictions will be introduced on
international trade transactions, with the possible exception of any protectionist measures that
might be taken fully consistent with WTO rules. The Government will also strive to reduce
import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an eventual reduction in import tariffs. Centralized
trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and defense-related equipment. Trade under
intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the government will be
conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices at world levels, and related
expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The Government will refrain from
operating any system of export controls under the guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity,
quality, or price of exports.
b)   In August 1997, amendments to draft legislation were introduced to ensure that the
emerging legal framework for trade measures (safeguards, anti-dumping, countervailing duties,
etc.) will be in line with international norms.
39.  Implement revisions and harmonization of Russian legislation, regulation and other
measures, and their practical application to international trade and investment will
continue to be made in accordance with international standards and practices.
a)   In August 1997, Government Resolution No. 1037 was issued that revises product
labeling standards. Detailed information of what retailers are to provide shall be clearly specified,
as will be the list of products subject to the regulation; the classification system has been
streamlined; and national treatment standards have been incorporated.
b)   In September 1997, Government Resolution No. 1193 was issued that revises the system
for marking products to ensure against counterfeiting in line with international standards. The
coverage of products requiring such markings have been reduced and mandatory restrictions
have been narrowed; the certification process has been streamlined.
c)    On July 8, 1997, President Yeltsin issued a decree No. 694 "On Production Sharing
Agreements (PSAs)" ensuring rights and benefits of the Russian Federation in implementing



Attachment 4                            22
PSAs. In accordance with the Federal Law "On Sites of Natural Resources Deposits Entitled for
Use under PSAs" there are seven sites that can be developed in accordance with PSAs. The sites
include five oil and gas fields, one iron ore deposit and one gold mine. By December 1, 1997, the
Govenmment will submit to the Duma a draft Law on Expansion of PSAs to additional areas.
40.   Implement a market-based system for access to oil transportation capacity in
constrained pipelines and phase- out of oil export component of State needs program.
a)    The Government has begun to put into place a market-based (nondiscretionary and
transparent) system for access to oil transportation capacity in the Novorosiisk and other
constrained pipelines. A new regime has been implemented through Presidential Decree No. #
693 of July 8, 1997 and Government Resolution # 1130, issued on September 2, 1997, in which
access is allocated in proportion to total production. This regime will be effective throughout
1998. However, oil producers will have the right to trade access rights.
b)    All resolutions and directives covering programs of export of oil and oil products for
State needs were eliminated on March 16, 1997, except for those under Government Resolutions
#579 of May 14, 1996, #208 of February 28, 1996, and #736 of June 24, 1996. Under
Presidential Decree 693 of July 8 and Governnent Resolution #988 of August 7, the government
abolished these oil export programs effective October 1, 1997.
Chairman of the GovcrtirnInt               (Chairman o0 thc Ccntral [lank
Or thc ILU33iL Rus>Fed,                     of tho Kussilan Federation:
Vate:                                               &f O7 Z/4> Date:  t 4- 27  /f   7



Attachment 5
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reforn - Page 1,,
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL1  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2         Medium-erm Strctural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
1. Promote more    On April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree No. 426   In August 1997 the Government outlined an action
competitive market  "On Fundamental Principles of Structural  plan for restructuring the electric power and natural
structures for the    Reformns in Sectors of Natural Monopolies" was  gas sectors.
energy and        issued as outlined in the Concept Paper "On
infrastructure    Developing Plans for Structural Reforms of
industries.       Natural Monopolies" submitted to the
Government on March 26, 1997. The decree
All Sectors       instructed the Govemment to approve a detailed
medium-term restructuring program to be
adopted by a government resolution by June 30,
1997.
Electricity Sector:  In the period up to April 30, 1997, the  The Government established an Inter-Ministerial
a) Corporate    Govermment took steps to ensure that the  working group to ensure that its reform agenda for
Governance      representative group of government officials on  the power sector would be pursued. Improvements in
the Board of RAO EES have clear instructions   corporate governance were punctuated during the
to implement governmental policies in the  Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of RAO
electric power sector.                    UES on May 28, 1997, when the leadership for the
reform agenda was established.
b) Wholesale                                               The Government has created an Independent     By December 31, 1997, the Goverment will establish a
Market                                                    Financial Operator (IFO) to establish a competitive    plan to create a sufficient number of generation
wholesale electricity market under FEC Protocol #97   companies independent of RAO UES Rossii to establish a
dated June 25, 1997. It is in the process of   competitive wholesale market. RAO UES has engaged
establishing a Supervisory Council for the Wholesale  consultants to assist in the development of a sector
Market composed of representatives of market  restructuring program and implementation program. The
participants (with no participant having a dominant   results of their assessment were presented to RAO UES
position). The composition of the Supervisory  in early October. Russian power sector specialists have
Council will be finalized by the end of February,  been engaged to review this work and assist in preparing
i 1998.                                         a recommendation to the Government. A program of
actions will be agreed upon for implementation during
The FEC has made public preliminary wholesale  1998.
market agreements under FEC Protocol # 104, dated
August 29, 1997. These contractual agreements  A comprehensive Wholesale Market Agreement is
specify the duties and responsibilities of current  currently being drafted, and will be circulated to all
participants in the competitive Wholesale Market,    participants in the Wholesale Market for their review and
and were issued by the IFO in September, 1997.  comment by end December 1997. The Wholesale Market
Direct agreements between energy producers and  Agreement will be formally adopted by February 28,
consumers have also been drafted and will be   1998.
approved by the FEC by end-November, 1997. Two
generation companies and four customers are    By January 31, 1998, the Government (FEC) will
currently operating in the Wholesale Market and  establish principles that will determine market clearing
expansion is actively being pursued.           prices of electricity sold on the Wholesale Market. By
February 28, 1998, the Government will ensure that
customers of the Wholesale Market are able to obtain



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 2
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SALI  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2         Medium-term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
access to the local distribution grid at fair and reasonable
prices for power purchased on this market. To complete
the creation of independent wholesale market operators,
by March 30, 1998, all remaining wholesale market
functions within RAO EES Rossii will be transferred to
one or more independent market operators under the
control of the participants in the wholesale market.
c) Regulation                                              The FEC has submitted a letter to the Government,
dated August 20, 1997, articulating the general
principles for commercial licensing of participants in
the wholesale power market. The Government has
submitted a draft law on licensing to the Duma,
including amendments with regard to licensing for
activities in the wholesale power (capacity) market
and services for its operations. The second reading of
this law is scheduled for December 1997. When the
law is approved, the Government will issue a
Resolution giving the FEC the exclusive right to
issue licenses for activities in the wholesale power
(capacity) market to participants in the power market.
d) Competition                                                                                            By January 31, 1998, the Government will establish
principles and procedures to assure that the national
dispatch center dispatches plants on a least cost basis.
I. Promote more                                             In Resolution No. 858 of July 14, 1997, the
competitive market                                           Government adopted procedures for granting access
structures for the                                           by independent producers of gas to the pipelines of
energy and                                                   RAO Gazprom.
infrastructure
industries. (Cont.)                                         In Resolution No. 1269 of September 30, 1997, the
Government approved a regulation outlining the
Natural Gas:                                                responsibilities and operating procedures for the
l Inter-Branch Commission which was formed under
Resolution 858 to review issues related to access by
independent producers.
In accordance with Government Resolution #987,
1997, the Anti-Monopoly Committee has registered
RAO Gazprom as an economic entity controlling
more than 35% of its corresponding market pursuant
to the law "On Competition and Restriction of
Monopoly Activities in Commodity Markets".



Attachment 5: Policy Reforns Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 3
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL     A       Before Board Presentation of SA            Medium-term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
By November 30, 1997, the Government will review
the effectiveness of Presidential Decree 628 of June
19, 1997 "On Lowering Gas Prices for Russian
Consumers" as a means for reducing non-payments.
In the event that the Decree is extended, provision
will be made to allow local distribution companies to
extend these same discounts to their customers,
provided that the customers meet the conditions
outlined in the Decree.
The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has established a
group within the Ministry to review further structural
changes necessary to improve the efficiency of
natural gas supply.
1. Promote more                                               In the April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree 426, the  By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Railroads will
competitive market                                            Government took actions to set forth the main thrust   make public an action plan for separating passenger and
structures for the                                            of structural reform in the railway sector. The decree   freight services (including accounts) which will identify
energy and                                                    set forth a staged plan of restructuring over a three  major assets and employee groups to be allocated to each
infrastructure                                                year period. With respect to improving the railway's   business.
industries. (Cont.)                                           competitive market structure, the following measures
were included on the agenda for 1997: (a) to    For most products, preferential tariffs will expire by
Railway Sector:                                               introduce a new procedure of Government regulation   December 31, 1997. The MPS has drafted regulations
of freight tariffs that would take into account patterns  providing for elimination of most of the remaining
and volume of traffic, increases in labor productivity,  preferential tariffs as of December 31, 1997.
restructuring and cost-cutting measures, etc.; (b) to
phase-out cross-subsidization of passenger losses by   In order to ascertain the overall reduction in freight rates
freight customers and provide compensation for  engendered by the above-mentioned measures, by March
passenger losses in Federal and local budgets as  1, 1998, MPS will provide to the Government a report
appropriate; (c) to lower freight tariffs; (d) to separate  that demonstrates an accounting of the effect on revenues
unused facilities and divest these and other ancillary   and traffic volumes of all the proposed tariff discounts for
activities; (e) to create conditions for the    all of 1997, including those discounts of July 1, 1997.
I development of competition in the rail services
market that would provide equal access to rail
infrastructure and repair facilities to different owners
of rolling stock; and (f) to complete the establishment
of the Federal Service to Regulate Natural
1 Monopolies in Transport (FSNMT).
On September 30, 1997, the Government issued a
resolution reducing average rates for freight (total
revenues divided by ton-kilometers) by 5 percent
compared to rates effective in September 1, 1997.
__________                                 .Several other freight rate reductions were introduced



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 4
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SALI    ActionsBeforeBoardPresentation of SAL2            Medium-term Sctural Reform Program 
To be expanded under SAL 3 1 1998 EFF
as of July 1, 1997 including (a) reductions on specific
commodities at specific rates, as set forth in a June
113, 1997 minutes of a meeting held by First Deputy
Prime Minister Nemtsov with Deputy Ministers of
MOE, MOF and MPS; and, (b) on new traffic
(against previous year totals for individual shippers)
provided the increase is of certain volume (3000
tons), and on existing traffic to shippers relative to
the time of downpayment.
To enhance transparency regarding the provision of
preferential tariffs and to clarify the framework under
which regional railways can offer discounts to
shippers, and in compliance with clause 4 of
Government Resolution # 410 of April 8, 1997, by
November 20, 1997, the FSNMT will issue
regulations and methodologies governing railway
tariffs, including discounts and preferential tariffs.
2. Phase out cross-   On April 3, 1997, the Government approved an
subsidies and      action plan for the phased elimination of cross-
introduce pricing    subsidies among consumer groups for all
principles for     natural monopoly services (Government
natural monopoly    Resolution No. 389 "On the Gradual Reduction
services in the    of Cross-Subsidization in Sectors of Natural
electricity, gas, and  Monopolies").
rail sectors which
will encourage
efficient
production and
usage.
All Sectors
2. Phase out cross-                                           The Goverment has outlined general pricing
subsidies and                                                 principles and procedures for encouraging efficient
introduce pricing                                             production and usage of electric power, and these
principles for                                                will continue to be refined and made more detailed.
natural monopoly
services ... (Cont.)                                        i The Government passed Resolution No. 1231 on
September 26, 1997 providing annual targets for the
Electric Power:                                              reduction of cross-subsidies in electricity
consumption, ending with its elimination by mid-
2000. The first steps have been taken this year



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 5
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL1    Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2           Medium-term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
resulting in price increases in most regions.
The Government introduced a two-block tariff for  The implementation of this policy will become more
household electricity consumption that is       extensive.
differentiated by levels of consumption; this policy is
based upon recommendations from the FEC dated
April 25, 1997. Implementation has been undertaken
in most regions.
Industrial customers that clear their arrears and pay
cash in advance receive electricity at an economically
efficient price. In June, RAO UES announced that, as
of July 1997, it would accept cash payments only
(eliminating barter, promissory notes and limited use
of mutual settlements). Improvements have been
gradual (as existing barter agreements had to be
respected) but significant. Cash payments for RAO
UES transmission services have nearly doubled
between June and September. This has enabled RAO
UES to fully pay its tax obligations for 1997, and
I become current with its salary payments to staff.
2. Phase out cross-                                           The Ministry of Economy has prepared a draft     By December 31, 1997, the FEC will begin to develop
subsidies and                                                 Discussion Paper (October 14, 1997) outlining    the principles for setting retail prices for gas distribution
introduce pricing   j                                         general pricing principles and procedures to     companies, including principles for phasing out cross-
principles for                                                 encourage efficient production and usage of natural    subsidies in retail sales of natural gas. These principles
natural monopoly                                              gas. The draft principles also provide that, until a  will be approved by March 31, 1998. By September 1,
services... (Cont.)  I                                        competitive market for gas production is introduced,   1998, the regulatory framework and specific guidelines
wholesale gas prices will be regulated: (a) at the city   for phasing out cross-subsidies will be formalized and
Natural Gas:                                                   gate, with tariffs of gas transmission set separately; or  approved.
(b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas
transmission prices, each set separately. The FEC has  By December 31, 1997 the Government will begin to
issued Resolution No. 119/6, dated October 31, 1997   delegate the power to implement the regulation of gas
establishing the procedures for regulating wholesale   prices for final consumers to the regional energy
gas prices. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has  commissions according to pricing principles and
initiated negotiations with the firm of consultants  procedures prepared by the FEC. The process of
selected to carry out a World Bank-financed Gas  delegation of responsibilities to the regions will be
Pricing Study starting November 4, 1997, which will  completed by November, 1998. In the interim, the FEC
assist the Government to define the detailed pricing    will take into account customer mix and residential retail
methodology and procedures to be applied in setting   prices in establishing the distribution retail prices on
gas prices at various levels in the gas supply chain.    industrial sales for local distribution companies under its
authority.
In August 1997 the Federal Energy Commission
L_____________                              i ______________  published temporary rules and procedures for setting



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reforn - Page 6
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL1    Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2           Medium-term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas.
FEC Resolution 110 of September 26, 1997, provides
E that, effective December 1, 1997, the regional
wholesale natural gas price differential between the
minimum and maximum price will be increased from
_  the current level of 12 percent to at least 25 percent.
2. Phase out cross-                                            The Government is establishing general pricing
subsidies and                                                  principles and procedures that will help to encourage
introduce pricing                                              efficient provision and usage of railway services. In
principles for                                                 compliance with Government Resolution #410 of
natural monopoly                                               April 8, 1997, an order dated May 14, 1997 was
services... (Cont.)                                           jointly issued by the Ministry of Railways and
I Ministry of Economy that outlines a methodology for
regulating railway freight tariffs.
Railways:
I Resolution #410 also ordered that changes in railway
l tariffs and fee rates shall not exceed the index of
I wholesale prices for industrial goods producers
across the Russian Federation in the respective
period. This measure is evidence that the
Government is coming to grips with the problem that
rail rates have risen faster than inflation. However, in
order to ensure that the effects of this measure are
long-lasting, future indexation should not be
automatic as it has in the past since there is
agreement that freight rates can be further reduced.
As it may be difficult to evaluate, on a timely basis,
submissions by MPS of cost data justifying tariff
increases, a simpler approach under consideration is
to permit automatic indexing of freight rates to the
wholesale industrial price index and promote
additional reductions on the overall levels.
Specifically, the FSNMT is considering limiting the
overall increase of average freight rates in 1998 to
the wholesale price index minus 3 percentage points,
to be measured on a quarterly basis, i.e. 0.75% per
quarter.
The present pricing methodology mentions the need    Therefore, by January 15, 1998 the FS      together
Ito take into account railway restructuring plans and    with MOE, MOF and the Anti-Monopoly Committee will
cost-reduction measures, but does not explicitly tie    develop an action plan and proposed targets for achieving
the railways to any specific restructuring plan. In the   further rate reductions in the coming year, in conjunction
longer term, it is anticipated that the railways will  with proposed rail restructuring plans.
_  restructure in a way that would make the industry



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 7
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL1    Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2           Medium-term Structural Reform Program
.__ ___ ___ ___   __ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ _  _ ___ ___   __ __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __  To   be   expanded   under  SAL   311998  EFF
more competitive and commercial. Thus, in time, it is  The Government has agreed to develop proposals on
hoped tariff regulation of freight traffic would be  budget subsidization of railway passenger traffic. It was
based more on an exception basis, where there is  also agreed that the remaining federal privileges on the
little competition or a clear possibility for abuse of    fares of individual passenger categories are to be financed
monopoly power. In the meantime, however, as    from the federal budget. In the draft 1998 budget, a sum
passenger losses are shifted to the budget,     of Rb 450 billion was included for Federal compensation
imanufacturing and social assets divested and other    of intercity passenger losses. In the process of budget
| cost-cutting measure introduced, it is anticipated that  discussions in the State Duma, the Ministry of Finance of
there should be additional decreases in the minimum   the Russian Federation will finalize the scale of the use of
freight tariff rates.                           federal and other budgetary resources for financing of
railway passenger losses. MPS is in the process of
Cross-subsidies of passenger losses through freight    entering into contracts with municipalities that would
rates are being phased out by a combination of  include provisions for subsidies of suburban services.
measures including: raising passenger fares;
devolving suburban services to municipal and    The Government is also studying the cost of federally
regional Governments and ensuring that losses on  mandated exemptions with a view toward reducing these.
these services are compensated through budgets of    To determine the adequacy of the Federal budget
subjects of the Federation as appropriate; by   allocation, it is necessary to calculate the cost of federally
separating passenger from freight services and taking   mandated passenger exemptions as well as to refine
measures to cut costs where appropriate; by     calculations of passenger losses. To this end, MOE, MPS
compensating intercity passenger losses through the    and FSNMT shall develop a methodology and calculate
Federal budget and/or eliminating remaining federal   the variable costs of intercity passenger carriage,
privileges on the fares of individual passenger  excluding track maintenance of the network which could
categories. On September 15, 1997 the Government   be realistically assigned to freight traffic, and to assess
issued Resolution No. 389, which, effective that day,  the revenue impact of the recently enacted passenger fare
increased intercity passenger rates by 10 percent;  increases. By March 1, 1998, MOE and MPS will prepare
destinations to the Baltics and CIS countries were  a report to the Govemment assessing what passenger
increased 65%.                                  losses have been for 1996-1997, based on this calculation
and data on passenger revenues for 1996-97.
3. Reduce payment  The Government has made adequate provisions   The Govemment has adopted Resolution # 928 of.    As it has throughout 1997, in 1998 the Govemment will
arrears on        in the 1997 budget to pay for the fuel and  July 27, 1997 that establishes a procedure for   ensure that there are no arrears to energy suppliers on
electricity and gas   energy consumption of the remaining "strategic  clearing payment arrears for supplied fuel and energy  account of the remaining strategic customers.
utility bills and  customers" who may not be disconnected for    resources.
improve the flow   nonpayment, as listed in the Government
of payments in the   Decree 74, issued January 28, 1997.
fuel and energy
sector
4. Further                                                    The Goverment is ensuring the independence and     e Goverment will approve the composition of the
strengthen the                                                effectiveness of the regulatory agencies for energy  boards of both the FSNMT and FSRNMC; provide
regulation of the                                            j (FEC), transport (FSNMT), and telecommunications   adequate financing and office space for the agencies; and
natural monopoly                                              (FSRNMC). The head of the FSNMT was              ensure that staff and commissioners of the agencies will
sectors.                                                      appointed.                                       not be allowed to receive payments or other financial
consideration from regulated enterprises.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 1
FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
Policy Objective     Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL I  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2       Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
I                                                                                               To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
1. Undertake fundamental   The Government submitted the draft Tax  The draft Tax Code passed its first reading in the  The Government will provide for efficient
tax reformn to strengthen the I Code, through which it intends to undertake   State Duma; however, the Duma recently has  implementation of key reform measures under the
revenue base while        a significant reform of tax policy, to the State  decided to send the Code back for a new first  Tax Code, which include inter alia training for
reducing the distortionary    Duma on April 30, 1997.             reading. The Government continues working closely  federal and regional officials in the application of
impact of the tax system.                                         with the State Duma to secure final adoption of the   the Code; and a public information campaign to
Code on a timely basis.                        educate the public about changes in their rights and
Among many improvements, the Code                                                      obligations under the new Code.
envisages the elimination or phase-out of
a) Design overall tax     almost all existing exemptions for the VAT
reform package           and the deduction of normal business
f expenses when measuring the profit tax base.  In an effort to establish an instrument for the regular
It also includes the adoption of accrual  and accurate monitoring and assessment of tax
accounting; the indexation of specific excise   expenditures, an amendment was made to the draft
b) Reform of the structure   rates for inflation; the elimination of  Budget Code in September 1997 for consideration
of individual taxes       preferential rates under the profit tax; and a    by the State Duma in the second reading, so as to
simplification of filing requirements under    make the evaluation of actual Government tax
the profit tax and personal income tax.  expenditures a mandatory component of the annual
budget execution reports at all levels of
c) Assessment of tax                                              Government.
exemptions                On April 4, 1997, the Govemment
eliminated the tax deductibility of transfers
by RAO EES Rossii to its Investment Fund,
with no accompanying increase in electricity
prices (Government Resolution No. 390).



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 2
Policy Objective     Actions Before Board Presentation of SALI  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2      Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
2. Develop an efficient and   In the period up to May 15, 1997, the  As of September 30, 1997, the Government has  The Government intends to further improve the
impartial tax administration  Government notified more than 15 of the  established and made operational large taxpayer  effectiveness of these five units and establish large
that can overcome a      largest debtors to the federal budget that  units of the Federal State Tax Service in five  taxpayer units by December 31, 1997 in 11 more
pervasive "non-payment   within one month, they will have to decide    regions.                                 regions.
culture," through a broad    among three options for resolving their
based reform of          outstanding tax arrears: (i) paying their  The Revenue Action Plan adopted by the      The November 1997 Action Plan will be
management, procedures,   arrears in full; (ii) participating in the  Government in November/December 1996 has been  implemented in the context of ongoing technical
and practices of the State    announced scheme of collateralized  continuing to serve as the framework for the 1997    assistance work.
Tax Service (STS) and    restructuring of arrears; and (iii) initiating  program in the area of tax administration.
Customs Committee and    bankruptcy proceedings.
improved coordination with                                       In November 1997, the Government introduced a
other agencies including tax  The Govemment endorsed an action plan to   new Action Plan to Increase Collection of Taxes and
and border police.       establish large taxpayer units in the State Tax  Reduce Federal Budget Expenditures. Major steps
Service (STS Orders No. BA-3-20/27 of  that will be taken under this action plan include:
February 17, 1997, BA-3-32/57 of March 25,  (i) the termination of noncash arrangements
1997, and PV-3-32/104 of May 13, 1997).   ("offsets") for clearing tax and spending arrears,
which will become effective on January 1, 1998, as
The Govemment has adopted an action plan   stipulated in a November 7, 1997 Presidential
to strengthen the collection of alcohol taxes,   Decree; (ii) the establishment of firm expenditure
including steps to control domestic     control through the consolidation of all federal
commercial traffic in excisable goods, to  spending under the Treasury, supported by sanctions
ensure that the excise tax on domestic  against officials of institutions receiving budgetary
alcohol and alcohol products is payable at    resources for undertaking expenditure liabilities not
the time of shipment, and to improve the  covered by budgetary funding, improved reporting
excise stamp program (Government        of expenditure arrears, and other expenditure control
Resolution No. 297 of March 14, 1997,   mechanisms; (iii) the development and
submission of the draft Tax Code to the  implementation of a realistic spending plan to
Duma on April 30, 1997, and various     underpin the 1998 budget, including spending
Customs Committee orders).              norms for such items as electricity and heating;
(iv) strong measures to improve tax collection,
including taking actions against large high-profile
tax debtors and enterprises that do not carry out the
decisions of the Emergency Tax Commission
(VChK), creating the infrastructure for effective
implementation of levies on property of tax debtors,
and accelerating tax arrears rescheduling efforts;
(v) introducing the invoice system for VAT
collection and making the transition to collection of
VAT, profit taxes and excises based on the accrual
method; and (vi) inventorying all off-budget
accounts of budgetary organizations.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 3
Policy Objective    Actions Before Board Presentation of SALI         Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2        Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 311998 EFF
3. Improve the system   The Govemment submitted to the State Duma,  As of September 30, 1997, the Government has kept its cash  Under the November 1997 Action Plan
and process of budget   on April 30, 1997, a law proposing     budget expenditures in line with its sequestration budget proposed  the Government has proposed measures
and treasury         expenditure ceilings for 1997 which are   to the Duma in late April and the cash deficit remained under  that will ensure that in 1998 new
management.          consistent with the program. This level of  control.                                                 expenditure control mechanisms will keep
expenditure will be sufficient to provide for                                                       its spending commitments in line with the
a) Maximize          the basic needs of the Federal Govemment                                                             approved budget.
transparency and     while at the same time ensuring that there will
minimize disruptions   be no incurrence of new arrears.
through ad-hoc
sequestration.
b) Control spending  The Gove.ment confirmed in early May      As of October 31, 1997, all federal pension arrears and all federal  For 1998, the Ministry of Finance will
commitments and       1997 that a mechanism was launched for the    wage arrears have been repaid by the Government.      develop a procedure to strengthen
eliminate budget     Treasury to issue directly payment orders for                                                        Treasury control over payments to energy
arrears through      wages of the Ministry of Defense.         The Ministry of Finance will by November 30, 1997, complete an  suppliers by budget organizations and
enhanced monitoring                                            assessment of the level and structure of federal budgetary arrears   government agencies so as to prevent the
and the establishment   On May 12, 1997, Presidential Decree No.  to suppliers as of June 30, 1997. The Government adopted a  unauthorized reallocation of budget funds
of a Treasury        467 ("On Terminating the Practice of Issuing   decision to instruct the Ministry of Finance and Goskomstat to  to other categories of expenditures and
controlled payments    Guarantees and Warrants Covered by the  develop a statistical format for monthly reporting by budgetary  help reduce budget arrears to energy
mechanism            Federal Budget") was issued eliminating the    organization on the stock of their outstanding arrears to suppliers,  providers. At the same time, 1998 budget
system of government guarantees on       starting in January 1997.                                  allocations will provide sufficient funding
commercial bank financing of budgetary                                                              for financing energy consumption within
organizations and enterprises.           A Presidential Decree was signed and became effective on   agreed limits. (Ref: GOR Resolution No.
November 7, 1997 to (i) instruct the federal Govemment to end,    1129).
as of January 1, 1998, the use of all types of mutual offsets,
including cash offsets, for clearing federal tax and budgetary
arrears; and (ii) recommend to regional Governments to end, as of
January 1, 1998, the use of arrears offset arrangements at the
regional level.
Further to Government Resolutions #903, 927, 928, on September
2, 1997, the Government issued Resolution #1129, amending the
framework for clearing the existing stock of energy arrears
(budgetary arrears to energy suppliers and suppliers' tax arrears).



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 4
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL I  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2      Medium-TerFn Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
3. Improve the                                         The Government has made substantial progress in  In the context of broad reform of the budget execution
system and                                              introducing the computerized treasury system of  system the Government will during 1998: (i) develop a
process of budget                                       accounting and direct payments. The volume of  system with a single Treasury account; (ii) transfer off-
and treasury                                            payments processed by the federal Treasury has been    budgetary accounts of budgetary organizations to the
management                                              steadily increased through 1997 and as of September    Treasury; (iii) issue regulations and streamline procedures of
(Ctd.)                                                  30, 1997, the Government is processing 31 percent of   the Treasury system of budget execution, including
the monthly outlays of the federal budget through this   procedures for main distributors, distributors and end-users
c) Switch to new                                        system.                                        of budgetary funds; (iv) unify the information and
computerized                                                                                           telecommunication systems of the Treasury; and (v) serve
Treasury system                                                                                        budgetary organizations, located in the regions without
of accounting.                                                                                         federal Treasury branches, by Treasury branches in
neighboring regions. (Ref. Government Resolution # 1082)
d) Move                                                 The Government's draft 1998 budget submission to
extrabudgetary                                          the Duma includes the draft budgets of the social
funds onto the                                          extrabudgetary funds in parallel with the federal
budget and the                                          budget.
treasury system.
e) Establish                                            A new dmfl Budget Code developed by the        Passage of the Budget Code is envisaged for late 1997 or
sound legal-                                            Government and the State Duma has been passed in its  early 1998.
institutional basis                                    first reading by the State Duma. Its provisions on
for budget and                                         budget responsibilities, comprehensiveness,
treasury                                                unification, monitoring, reporting, auditing, etc.
management                                             provide a solid basis for regularizing the entire sphere
of budget operations and dramatically improving their
transparency and efficiency.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 5
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL I  Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2          Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
4. Rationalize   Presidential Decree No. 305 "On Priority  The Govemment has undertaken a number of steps to   Implementation of the November 1997 Action Plan to
govemment        Measures to Combat Corruption and       accelerate reforms in the housing sector and to reduce   Increase Collection of Taxes and Reduce Federal Budget
spending         Reduce Budget Expenditures Through      the fiscal burden associated with housing subsidies,  Expenditures.
Organizing Auctions to Procure Goods,  which are the single largest subsidy item remaining in
Construction Works, and Services for State  the fiscal system. A Govemment Commission was
Needs" was issued on April 8, 1997 to  established to oversee housing and utility reforms, led
reform public procurement procedures,  by the First Deputy Prime Minister. The Govemment
requiring standardized, competitive, open,   has approved a system of federal standards in housing
and nondiscriminatory bidding procedures,  policy, which provides subnational Governments with
and establishing conflict of interest  explicit benchmarks for reform implementation and
regulations. The decree requires       budget savings. The Commission has worked out a
competitive bidding procedures for all  medium term plan for the preparation of Govemment
federal agencies.                      decisions to accelerate sector reforms. As a result,
average housing (utility and maintenance) prices
charged to households have risen by 10 percent in real
terms, as of the end of September 1997, compared to
the end of 1996.
The Government has submitted to the State Duma a
draft law to reform public procurement procedures
requiring standardized, competitive, open, and
nondiscriminatory bidding procedures which has
passed its first reading.
As of June 30, 1997 all grain and food procurement
using federal budgetary funds is subject to competitive
tendering.
The Government has conducted no less than 10
competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued in excess of
,_____________  _Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 6
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation    Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2                Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
of SAL I                                                                               To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
5. Improve                                                                                                 G Govenment Resoution No. 621  The Government has decided to undetake a  The Government will introduce amendments to theLaw on Fiscal
system of inter-   issued on May, 5, 1997, requires    comprehensive restructuring of intergovernmental fiscal  Foundations of Local Self-govemance to make it fully consistent
governmental     transfers from the Federal       relations and set up a Working Group of its Government    with the provisions of the Tax and Budget Codes (sections
fiscal relations    I Equalization Fund to be made  Commission on Economic Reforms to develop the reform    concerning intergovernmental fiscal relations).
conditional on regions' compliance  program. The Working Group has developed a program
a) Rationalize tax   with newly established federal  for restructuring the current system of federal budget
sharing and      guidelines and standards on      transfers to regions for 1998-99. The Federal law "On
transfer          housing reform. This lays the   Fundamental Financial Principles Of Local Self-
arrangements and   basis for the first type of    Governance In The Russian Federation" adopted on
introduce        conditional transfers in Russia.  September 25, 1997 provides a new legal framework for
conditional                                       intergovernmental tax revenue sharing.
transfers to
encourage local                                   The Government's draft 1998 budget submitted to the
reforms                                            State Duma in late August 1997: (i) requires a
concentration of federal transfers among the most needy
regions; (ii) reflects the recommendations of the Protocol
of the Commission on Housing Reform of July 22, 1997
and makes the level of equalization transfers to regions
conditional on compliance with federal housing standards;
and (iii) introduces a separate mechanism for ear-marked
federal transfers to regional Medical Insurance Funds.
An Instruction was issued by the Government Commission
on Housing and Utility Reform in August, 1997, which
specifies rules and procedures for determining the level of
federal transfers to regions conditional on the extent of
compliance with federal housing standards.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 7
Policy ObjeetWe   Actions Before B3oard Presentation     Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2                 Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
of SAL I                                                                                To be expanded under SAL 3 1 1998 EFF
By November 30, 1997, the Government of the Russian
Federation will issue a resolution authorizing the
Economic Reform Commission to develop, by January 31,
1998: (i) the concept of reforming the system of
interbudgetary fiscal transfers; and (ii) an action plan and
implementation schedule, starting from a detailed survey
of the reform program (including consultations with
regional bodies of executive power and the State Duma),
and stipulating its incorporation in the Government's draft
budget for 1999. In accordance with that resolution, the
Government's concept of reforming the system of
interbudgetary fiscal relations would include: (i)
rationalization of the system used to classify regions into
categories; (ii) changing the criteria determining the
amount of transfers (based on the assessment of the
regional GDP and/or fiscal capacity of the region, and
standards, level and cost of provision of public services);
(iii) introduction of arrangements that would encourage
regions to implement reforms in the budget sector; (iv)
introduction of conditionalities of transfers (including the
implementation of satisfactory independent audits of the
budget and ensuring compliance with the federal
legislation); (v) gradual transition to the delivery of federal
transfers exclusively through the Treasury system; and (vi)
introduction of special transfer arrangements for regions
-___ ----____-__|_                            heavily dependent on federal transfers.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Management Reform - Page 8
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation     Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2                 Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
of SAL I                                                                                To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
b) Put in place   On May 12, 1997, comprehensive   The draft law regulating subnational borrowing that had
improved         legislation regulating subnational    been submitted by the Govemment to the State Duma in
regulation of     government borrowing was         May 1997 has been passed in its first reading. With its
subnational      submitted to the State Duma. This  passage and final enactment remaining uncertain as of
borrowing.      I draft legislation included: (i) a  mid-November, 1997, the Government has submitted to
definition of the types of securities  the Office of the President a draft Presidential Decree to
that can be issued by local/regional  regulate subnational Govemments' extemal borrowing
govemments and extrabudgetary    through issuance of securities. The draft decree (i)
funds; (ii) conditions for issuance   requires, inter alia, the compliance of borrowing
of these securities (e.g., disclosure   subnational governments with federal fiscal regulations;
:  rules, collateral requirements, and    and (ii) includes monitorable ceilings on both the total
debt ceilings); and (iii) exposure  debt stock and the annual debt service flow of subnational
limits.                          Governments. Until the relevant regulation becomes
effective, through either law or Presidential Decree, the
Ministry of Finance will not register intemational security
issues by subnational Governments, and any such
registration would require, at a minimum, compliance with
the conditions on subnational borrowing by the regionsa of
Moscow, Nizhniy Novgorod, and St. Petersburg outlined
in Presidential Decree No. 304 of April 8, 1997. Moreover,
the federal Govemment continues to refrain from any
_____________  :________ _  guarantees on borrowing by subnational entities.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 1
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
1. Privatizat3on
Policy Objective    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SALI         Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2         Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
To be expanded under SAL3 11998 EFF
1. Revitalize     On April 1 and May 12, 1997, the Government issued
privatization by  Resolutions No. 363 ("On the Procedure Governing the
establishing the  Implementation of Case-by-Case Privatization Projects")
legal basis for a  and No. 564 ("On the Introduction of Changes in
credible high-    Resolution No. 363 of the Government of the Russian
quality case-by-  Federation Dated April 1, 1997 'On the Procedure
case privatization    Governing the Implementation of Case-by-Case
program for large    Privatization Projects' "), respectively, specifying rules
enterprises.      and implementation procedures for case-by-case
privatization requiring them to be fully open and
competitive (including through equal and open access to
domestic and foreign buyers), and using openly and
competitively selected, intemationally reputable financial
advisors. The privatizations are to be widely advertised
domestically and intemationally. Enterprises will be
valued at market prices or, if they are not traded, based
on standard business valuation procedures. Financial
advisors will be reputable, and yaluation will be done
based on international standards.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforns Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 2
Policy Objective    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL I       Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2        Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
To he expanded under SAL3 1 1998 EFF
2 a. Build a      For the initial 4-firm pilot program, to be completed in    The Ministry for State Property (MSP, fornerly GKI)  Under the programn there is a deadline
pipeline of suitable  1997, on May 15, 1997, the Government selected four    announced a change in the composition of the firms to  that by December 31, 1997, the tender
enterprises for   companies from the following list of 10 enterprises for    participate in the 4-firm pilot Case by Case Privatization  committees will close the tenders and
case-by-case      case-by-case privatization in 1997 under the principles    Program, as identified in earlier Government Resolutions Nos.  select the winners while issuing public
privatization in  established by Government Resolutions No. 363 and No.  363 and 564, and GKI Directive No. 356-r due to the fact that  offerings as needed. In the case where it
1997, where their   564: Tyrnauz Tungsten-Molybdenum Kombinat       (i) Domodedovo Production Association for Civil Aviation is  becomes impossible to privatize one of
privatization is  (Kabardino- Balkar Oblast), Domodedovo Production  to be split into three entities and (ii) Pulkovo Airlines and  the four companies as planned, because
carried out       Association for Civil Aviation (Moscow Oblast),   Rosgosstrakh are no longer under consideration to be included  of insurmountable legal or technical
according to the  Taganrog Sea Trade Port (Rostov Oblast), Kamsk Pulp   in the CBC program (at least not in 1997). On July 31, 1997,   difficulties that constitute a case of
new approved      and Paper Kombinat (Perm Oblast), Mosfilm (Moscow),  GKI Directive 670-R specified that the 4 participant firms are:  "force majeure", the Government will
procedures for    Lumber Factory No. 21 (Vologda Oblast), Troitsk Iodine  Domodedovo Aeroservice, Domodedovo Airlines, Kama Pulp  substitute another company from the
transparency and    Plant (Orenburg Oblast), Pulkovo Airlines (Leningrad  and Paper, and Russkii Dizel.                    original list of ten; alternatively,
competition       Oblast), State Enterprise Russkii Dizel (St. Petersburg),                                                substitute firms will be selected after
Rosgosstrakh (Moscow). These four enterprises are:  The above changes, in part, contributed to the inability to meet  consultation with the World Bank.
Domodedovo Production Association for Civil Aviation,  the June 30, 1997 program date for inviting financial advisors
Kamsk Pulp and Paper Kombinat, Pulkovo Airlines, and  to submit bids to assist with the privatization of the four firms   In light of the changes to the earlier
Rosgosstrakh. Three enterprises have been selected as    and the August 31, 1997 deadline for the tender committees to  portions of the schedule, this timetable
possible substitutes if the implementation of case-by-case  issue tenders. Following consultation with the World Bank,    has been modified: (i) The tender
privatization of any of the four above enterprises prove    which is supporting (through the PIAL loan) the technical  committees will issue the tenders on the
impossible because of insurmountable legal or technical   assistance for completing 3 of the 4 pilot transactions, MSP  sales, with wide domestic and
difficulties that constitute a case of force majeure. These  issued in correspondence dated October 10, 13, and 22, 1997,  international publicity, by the following
are: Mosfilm, Russkii Dizel, and Taganrog Sea Trade  a timeline that specifies the complete timetable of actions to    dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: May ,5,
Port. (GKI Directive 356-r.)                      be taken for all 4 firms. For the 3 transactions receiving  1998, Domodedovo Airlines: April 24,
financial support from the World Bank, the key points of this   1998, and Russkii Dizel: July 17, 1998;
On April 24, 1997, the Government appointed tender  timetable are: (i) "Bidding Package" (Letter of Invitation +  (ii) Collection of tender bids shall be
committees for these privatizations (GKI Directive 317-   Terms of Reference + Standard Contract) to be sent to short-   held open until the following dates:
r).                                               listed Financial Advisors (FAs) by the following dates: Kama   Kama Pulp and Paper: August 15,
Pulp and Paper: August 22, 1997, Domodedovo Airlines:  1998, Domodedovo Airlines: July 24,
August 28, 1997, and Russkii Dizel: October 24, 1997; (ii)  1998, and Russkii Dizel: October 17,
Negotiations to commence with the selected FAs by the  1998.
following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: October 23, 1997 and
Domodedovo Airlines: October 22, 1997 and Russkii Dizel:   In MSP's timeline issued on October
January 5, 1998 (iii) Contracts to be signed with the selected    22, 1997, MSP specified a timetable for
FAs by the following dates: Kama Pulp and Paper: November  the privatization of Domodedovo
14, 1997, Domodedovo Airlines: November 6, 1997; and  Aeroservice, carried out in accordance
Russkii Dizel by January 26, 1998.                    with Government Resolutions 363 and
564, and GKI Directive 356-r. The
timetable indicates that the decision on
the method of privatization will be
made on January 30, 1998, following
the completion of the work of the
Financial Advisors.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 3
Policy Objective    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL I          Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2           Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
To be expanded under SAL3 1 1998 EFF
2 b. Build-a                                                           The Government is committed to  implementing  future  By 31st December, 1997 the Ministry
pipeline of                                                            privatisations on the basis of a common framework of  of State Property will send to the World
additional                                                             principles and procedures that ensures transparency, openness  Bank for information the indicative list
enterprises to be                                                      and competition. The methods for carrying  out future  of the firms whose privatization is
privatized in 1998                                                     privatisations shall be "commercial competitive bidding", and  envisaged in 1998 and 1999 in
and 1999 based on                                                      "auctions" or "specialised auctions" as defined in law,  accordance with the preceding
the transparent and                                                    including "On Privatizing State Property and on the Principles  paragraph (in the previous column),
competitive                                                            of Privatizing Municipal Property in the Russian Federation"  and an indicative quarterly timetable of
principles and                                                         adopted by the State Duma on 24th June, 1997 (the  actions therefor; it will also send to the
procedures                                                             Privatization Law). In accordance with the relevant laws,  World Bank for information an update
underlying the                                                         bidding procedures will encourage all interested parties to  of this list/timetable every six months
institutional                                                          participate; privatisations will be widely advertised, including  thereafter.
framework of the                                                       internationally where this could attract additional qualified
new case-by-case                                                       buyers; when employed, financial advisers will be reputable,
privatization                                                          and engaged through a transparent, competitive process;
framework.                                                             conflicts of interest will be avoided; and bid evaluations will
be carried out objectively.
In accordance with the Privatization Law, in August, 1997 the
Government submitted to the State Duma the "State Program
of Privatization in the Russian Federation" (State Privatization
Program), which identifies two lists: (i) 37 state enterprises
held in federal property and subject to reorganization into
open joint stock companies and privatization beginning in
1998; and (ii) 29 open joint stock companies whose federally
held shares are subject to sale beginning in 1998. Not
counting the four pilot case-by-case transactions initiated in
1997, at least a quarter of the enterprises which are on the lists
(i) and (ii) above, and which will experience continuation of
privatization measures initiated in 1997 or initiation of such
measures in 1998, will be privatized through "case-by-case"
transactions as defined by Government Resolutions 363 and
564-R of 1997 (involving in particular the engagement of
financial advisers as early as possible in the process), and
building on any experience from the four pilots. The
Government will take all reasonable steps to ensure State
Duma deliberation on the State Privatization Program, and to
facilitate its passage. Should the State Duma not approve the
legislation in a timely fashion, the Government will take all
necessary and feasible steps in conformity with the legislation
in force to enable the privatisations referred to in (i) and (ii)
above to proceed in 1998-99 in accordance with the
________________________  ____________________________approaches  defined   above.  _               _ _



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 4
Policy Objective    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL 1          Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2           Medium-Ten Structural Reform
Program
________________  _____   _____  ______  _________          To be expanded under SAL3  1 1998 EFF
3. Establish                                                           Government Resolution # 989 (issued August 7, 1997) on the   Under the program, five large
institutions and                                                       "Procedure for Transferring Federally Owned Shares of Joint   enterprises outside the coal sector were
policies that create                                                   Stock Companies Created in the Course of Privatization to  to be selected and to enter into pilot
a framework for                                                        Trust Managers and Concluding Trust Management           trust management arrangements by
arms-length                                                            Agreements Regarding those Shares" met many, but not all, of  December 31, 1997, unless a decision
govemance of large                                                     the criteria set out under the program for implementing  f was made by MSP to privatize these
and often                                                              market-based guidelines for trust management arrangements,   companies earlier instead. Six oil
monopolistic                                                           including the competitive selection of trust managers. MSP    i companies were chosen, and the
enterprises that                                                       will issue a directive by November 30, 1997 that contains  privatization option was selected:
continue to be state                                                   detailed implementing regulations that specify: (a) a trust  Vostsibneftegas; Eastern Oil Company;
owned/controlled,                                                      management contract has the objective of improving the   Siberian and Urals Oil and Gas
so as to improve                                                       financial operation of enterprises and to prepare them for  i Chemical Company "Sibur"; Tiumen
the efficiency of                                                      privatization following the expiration of the contract; (b)  Oil Company "TNK"; Oil Company
state asset                                                            contracts are to specify performance based compensation  f "Komi TEK"; and Oil Company
management and                                                         linked to financial results; (c) compensation is to be paid  "NORSI-OIL". The privatization of
the quality of later                                                   through the term of the contract, not a lump-sum paid at the   f these firms, including controlling,
privatization.                                                         contract's expiration. It is noted, that according to Article  f voting shares, is to be made through
1015 of the Second Part of the Civil Code, property shall not  I"specialized auctions" on a transparent
be subject to transfer under trust management to a state  and competitive basis and open to all
agency or a local self-government body. An individual   interested investors, and subject to
entrepreneur or a for-profit organization except for a unitary    principles consistent with the new case-
enterprise may act as a trust manager. In accordance with  by-case framework as specified by
Govemment Resolution 989, evaluation of contract bids is to    Government Resolutions 363 and 564,
be carried out using methods that are consistent with    and GKI Directive 356-r. MSP is to
international standards of competition, neutrality and equity.    ensure that, 30 days prior to the auction
of each these firms, individual
advertisements for the sales shall be
placed in widely read international
_   publications.
4. Facilitate      The Federal Service on Insolvency and Financial     The Government has sent a draft bankruptcy law to the Duma,  Passage of the new bankruptcy law
market-based exit   Rehabilitation, based on an assessment of completed  which has passed its first reading. Relative to current law, the   shall be sought; upon passage,
of non-viable      bankruptcy cases to date, developed and made public  new draft provides for: (i) an increased role for creditor  implementing regulations and other
enterprises by     recommendations to increase the speed and effectiveness  committees in the resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) more  relevant measures shall be instituted.
addressing the     of the bankruptcy process.                          expeditious appointment on a competitive basis of licensed
weaknesses in the                                                      trustees with authority to replace incumbent enterprise  i
legal framework                                                        managers; (iii) differentiation of classes of creditors; and (iv)
for bankruptcy.                                                        stricter observance of time limits for workout and liquidation
proceedings by all parties. _



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 5
Policy Objective    Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL 1         Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2          Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
______                 ~~~~~~~To be expanded under SAL3 I 1998 EFF
5. Along with    j                                                                                                            In addition to the actions aimed at
advances in the                                                                                                               improving the bankruptcy legislative
legal framework                                                                                                               framework, the restructuring process in
for bankruptcy,                                                                                                               the Russian economy could be
pilot experiments                                                                                                             expedited by implementing pilot
in implementing                                                                                                               projects targeted towards bankruptcy of
challenging                                                                                                                   insolvent enterprises in cases that are
bankruptcy cases                                                                                                              especially difficult in such a way that
are to be carried                                                                                                             minimizes possible negative social
out to generate                                                                                                               consequences of bankruptcy. For such
lessons for      I                                                                                                            purposes, and taking into account the
practitioners.                                                                                                                basic provisions of the new Bankruptcy
Law, the Government of the Russian
Federation will approve, by adopting
appropriate directives, in the first
quarter of 1998, a procedure for
implementing and financing bankruptcy
pilot projects involving insolvent
enterprises. In compliance with the
above mentioned procedure as well as
in accordance with the goals outlined in
the first sentence of the current
paragraph, the Federal Service on
Bankruptcy Matters and Financial
Rehabilitation, shall implement in 1998
at least 4 bankruptcy pilots embracing
large enterprises that experience serious
financial difficulties and have bad
market prospects. The results of the
pilots implemented will be widely
reflected in a report of the Federal
Service of Russia for Bankruptcy
Matters and Financial Rehabilitation to
(i) provide arbitrators with data on the
relevant procedures; and (ii) provide
creditors and other persons concerned
with the most detailed information
Xabout the mechanisms and advantages
of h earing bankruptcy cases in the
court.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 6
II. Urban Land and Real Estate
Policy Objective       Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL I       Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2         Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
_ . _ _. __ ._ . .... ___ .. _ __ _                                                                                             To be expanded under SAL3 1 1998 EFF
1. Creating a leasing         -                                            Under the program, by June 30, 1997 a presidential
market for commercial                                                       decree was to be issued to cover four main goals to
real estate by                                                              foster land/real estate transactions: (i) create a legal
modifying existing                                                         framework requiring that the sale of all premises
regulations to                                                              belonging to the federal Government which are
discourage local                                                            currently under lease to commercial entities be carried
Governments from                                                            out at market rates; (ii) eliminate all existing restrictions
restricting competitive                                                     on the market sale of such real estate; (iii) all future
leasing and sale of                                                         leases of the federal owned property will be at market
premises and to ensure                                                      prices; and (iv) recommend that all the procedures
that transactions are                                                       outlined in the decree be followed by regional and local
conducted at market                                                         Governments. A presidential decree was not issued; a
rates.                                                                      new privatization law was passed by the Duma in June.
An analysis was performed by MSP that assesses the
nature of the gaps between the earlier agreed objectives
and the privatization law. The analysis indicates that
.. ___ .. ___ _.- _. _ _ . _ .... ...  rnmany of the above-mentioned objectives are covered.
2. Enable privatized  Presidential Decree No. 485 "On Guarantees to Owners of
enterprises to acquire    Real Estate to Buy Land on Which These Assets Are
the land on which they   Located" was issued on May 16, 1997 to establish the
are located, which will  necessary legislative framework to enable all owners of
enable them to sell or   privatized non-land real estate assets (including
mortgage their land to   production complexes, buildings, and unfinished
finance necessary     construction) to acquire the land on which these assets are
restructuring and/or  located. For all future privatization of such assets, the
relocate to areas more   associated land plots will be included in the transaction
appropriate to their  package.
business activities
3. Create a market for                                                      Presidential Decree No. 1263 was issued on November   In December 1997, model municipal
undeveloped/unused                                                          26, 1997, which establishes a legal framework for  regulations and procedures will be
urban land within and                                                       market-based sales of undeveloped land and/or land not   prepared for the sale of unoccupied
bordering city limits                                                       currently in use (including nonagricultural land   and/or undeveloped land through
for commercial                                                              bordering city limits) to be used for commercial   auctions and competitive tenders.
development by                                                              development, including through auctions and
assigning regions and                                                       competitive tenders.
municipalities the
authority to allocate
undeveloped land
(including within and
bordering cities).



Attachment 5: Policy Reforns Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 7
111. Capital Markets
Policy Objective        Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SALI     Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL2   Medium-Term Structural Reform
Program
To be expanded under SAL3 11998
EFF
1. Improve the quality of                                                     By August 31, 1997, the Government was to have       Implementation of Action
financial information                                                         approved for public comment an agreed Action Program  Program continues to January
available for managers and                                                    to introduce generally accepted accounting principles  1999.
investors and help attract                                                    consistent with International Accounting Standards (IAS);
more capital through the                                                      due to delays in creating the relevant interministerial body,
development and                                                               the Action Plan will be ready no later than November 30,
implementation of financial                                                   1997.
accounting and reporting
standards for enterprises                                                     The Action Program will: (i) identify any necessary
consistent with International                                                 amendments to laws or other normative acts to facilitate
Accounting Standards (IAS).                                                   the use of IAS by Russian issuers in disclosure of financial
information; (ii) require the MOF to approve regulations
by October 31, 1997 mandating LAS-consistent disclosure
by January 1998 of financial information to investors by
Russian enterprises which have a significant secondary
market in their securities or which propose to offer their
securities to the public, and to require the same for all
other enterprises by January 1999; and (iii) outline a
strategy and timetable for adaptation of the entire
accounting system for enterprises to bring it into
conformity with international practices. This strategy and
timetable will include: steps for transition to a revised
chart of accounts; a plan for training of accounting
personnel; further improvement of the process of
certification of professional accountants and auditors; and
an approach to developing accounting and audit practices
such that any authorized system using accounting
information will not preclude lAS-consistent financial
accounting information. With respect to (ii), the MOF has
issued the above specified regulations on October 14,
______________________________________________________1997.                                                ______________



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 8
Policy Objective         Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SALI     Actions Taken Before Board Presentation of SAL2    I Medium-Term Structural Reforrm
Program
To be expanded under SAL3 11998
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  |E FF
2. Reform the taxation of                                                      As part of the draft Tax Code, the Government has
capital income to improve                                                      submitted draft legislation to introduce an improved
the efficiency of allocation of                                                framework for the taxation of capital income. This
capital, mobilize domestic                                                     framework includes shifts toward: (i) uniformity of tax
savings and attract foreign                                                    rates and treatment for securities and other financial assets,
investment                                                                     including removal of tax privileges or exemptions for
specific types of securities; (ii) elimination of double
taxation on investment through collective investment
vehicles such as mutual funds; (iii) deductibility of capital
losses from the sale of securities. Moreover, the draft Tax
Code does not stipulate any transaction taxes or fees on
the circulation of securities.
3. Introduce a system for                                                      A parallel set of activities to those listed under III. 1.  Implementation of Action
regular independent audits of                                                  (above) regarding the introduction of financial accounts  Program continues to June 1999.
state owned enterprises                                                        based on intemational standards are to be undertaken to
introduce independent audits of such accounts in
enterprises. In particular, by December 15, 1997 the
Government will approve and publish for public comment
an agreed Action Programn to require, no later than June
1999, independent audits of the financial accounts of
enterprises.



Attachment 5: Policy Refonns Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 1
BANKING REFORM
Policy Objective         Actions Before Board      Actions Before Board PrMedium-Term Structural Reform Program
Presentation of SAL I                  SAL 2                                   To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
1. Facilitate resolution of    On the basis of its evaluation of  On the basis of plans submitted by  The CBR will continuously monitor the implementation of the
illiquid or insolvent banks.  the largest 200 banks and other   problem banks, CBR has decided  recapitalization and rehabilitation plans of the identified problem banks.
available information, the CBR    whether these banks are to be   Should the recapitalization rehabilitation fail to achieve its objectives, the
has identified those banks that   recapitalized and rehabilitated, or  CBR will take necessary actions including the withdrawal of licenses.
have negative capital or other    whether other statutory procedures as per
serious problems. At end-    the banking legislation should be    New problem banks may be identified through the CBR's on-going on-site
February 1997 the CBR        applied, including the withdrawal of  inspections and future evaluation of other banks. Those identified problem
informed such banks that they    bank licenses. Of 27 identified problem    banks will be required to submit recapitalization rehabilitation plans. Based
will be required to prepare plans  banks in the top 200 banks, 10 banks  on an assessment of those plans, the CBR will decide whether to place the
for increasing their capital and    have had their licenses withdrawn. A  banks under rehabilitation, interim administration, or extemal management
for their operational        number of banks have had their licenses   or to withdraw their licenses.
rehabilitation, for submission to  restricted.
the CBR on or before April 30,
1997.                                                                                                                              !,
2. Put in place effective  In March 1997, steps were taken  Legislation on bankruptcy of financial    The CBR will continue building up the necessary institutional capacity 
bank bankruptcy and     to modify the current legislation  institutions was submitted to and passed   ensure that the new legislation on the bankruptcy of financial institutions can
liquidation legislation.  in order to specify the     in its first reading by the State Duma in   be implemented effectively once it is passed by the Duma.
procedures for withdrawing   June.
bank licenses and for the
subsequent timely liquidation of  The Government and the CBR will take
the delicensed institutions.  measures to ensure State Duma
deliberation of the law on bankruptcy of
lending institutions with the next reading
expected later in 1997, and will take
steps to facilitate passage of this law.
3. Ensure that any deposit                             The Government and the CBR will take   The authorities are expected to issue needed regulations and directives to
guarantee scheme that is                              measures to ensure State Duma        establish a prudent deposit insurance scheme.
adopted has prudent                                   deliberation of the law on deposit
coverage of financial                                 insurance and will take steps to facilitate
institutions and deposits                             passage of this law. Any deposit
and is self-financing.                                insurance schemes that is implemented
will be funded only by premiums of
participating banks and the associated
investment income, with no use of CBR
or govemment resources. The second
reading of this draft law is expected later
in 1997.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 2
Policy Objective          Actions Before Board        Actions Before Board Presentation of                Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
Presentation of SALI                     SAL2                                     To be expanded under SAL 3 1 1998 EFF
4. Strengthen banking     On-site inspections of 53 of the   On-site inspections of another 15 of the    The program of on-site inspections will be expanded.
supervision through greater  largest banks were completed by   100 largest banks have been completed
use of on-site inspections    the end of June.           in the third quarter of 1997. In the first
and improved prudential                                  nine months of 1997, 68 bank
regulations.                                             inspections have been completed.      During 1998, the CBR will continue to improve the system of prudential
regulations to meet -- or where appropriate exceed -- international standards.
The CBR has continued to improve the
system of prudential regulations
established by Instruction I of January
30, 1996, with a view to moving
prudential regulations closer to
international standards. During 1997, the
CBR has, inter alia: revised procedures
for calculating banks' own resources
(capital); increased capital adequacy
requirements and lowered the tied credit
ratio; and introduced necessary changes
in the calculation of banks' prudential
requirements, with a view to
incorporating off-balance-sheet claims
and liabilities.
5. Reform accounting                                     The CBR, MinFin, and STS will revise    The finalized chart of accounts will be applied by lending institutions in their
requirements for banks by                                the procedure of making and use of loan   operations as of January 1, 1998. By end-1997, the CBR will prepare a
moving toward                                            provisions, with a view to making the  regulation establishing consolidated reporting rules effective January 1,
international standards                                  necessary reserves in all cases where  1999. In adopting International Accounting Standards and a new taxation
repayment in full is considered unlikely,  system, the CBR will aim at shifting to accrual-basis accounting.
including cases where loans are not
currently nonperforming but there are
reasons to believe that the borrower is
insolvent. In doing so, the CBR, the
Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax
Service will not allow banks' tax burdens
to increase unduly as a result of the new
provisioning rules.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 3
Policy Objective         Actions Before Board          Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2            Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
Presentation of SAL I                                                                To be expanded under SAL 3 11998 EFF
6. Improve functioning of   The CBR introduced reverse  The Central Bank has drafted regulations specifying the   CBR will take steps to establish an interbank repo market for
money markets by putting   repo operations to allow for a  procedures for conducting transactions for giving  a wide number of banks both in Moscow and in the regions.
in place new monetary   temporary reduction in the    Lombard credits and same-day settlement loans
instruments and developing  volume of liquidity in the  collateralized with government securities based on
open market operations to   banking system.           preliminary deposits of securities by banks on special
give banks the liquidity                              DEPO bank subaccounts. The Central Bank will approve
management tools                                      the above regulations so as to provide for their
available in other                                    implementation.
developed banking
systems.                                              The CBR will put in place an arrangement to allow
primary dealers to take short positions in government
securities, and it will also repeal the prohibition on the
use by all banks of government securities as collateral,
and will ensure that mechanisms are in place to pledge
collateral for same-day transactions.
7. Improve payment       On February 28, 1997, the CBR   In June and July 1997, the CBR issued normative  By January 1, 1998, the CBR aims to establish an 
system by introducing a  introduced a multi-window    concepts for the Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)  system in the Moscow region.
real-time gross settlement   system for processing    system and for the development of the settlements
system and providing     commercial banks' payments in  system.                                          Prices for settlement services will be introduced as of
incentives for banks to use   Moscow region, making                                                      January 1, 1998.
new electronic settlement   payments from banks' accounts
services.                irrevocable once a payment
order is submitted to the CBR.
Following each window, the
CBR provides information to
banks on their correspondent
account balances. A "cut-offt
hour for same-day client
payments was introduced to
allow banks to settle their
positions during the last window
by borrowing in the interbank
market or from the CBR.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforrns Program Matrix
Trade Policy - Page 1
TRADE POLICY REFORM
Policy Objective   Actions Before Board Presentation of SALI Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2          Medium-term      ctural Reform Program
T I           To be expanded under SAL 311998 EFF
1. Introduce an     Under the program, trade policy commitments have been made to preserve what liberalization has already been achieved. No quantitative restrictions will be
enduring regime     introduced on international trade transactions, with the possible exception of any protectionist measures that might be taken fully consistent with WTO rules. The
providing for       Government will also strive to reduce import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an eventual reduction in import tariffs. Centralized trade will continue to be
liberalized         limited to arms exports and defense-related equipment. Trade under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by the government will be
international trade    conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices at world levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget. The
and investment.     Government will refrain from operating any system of export controls under the guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity, quality, or price of exports.
2. Revise and                                                  In August 1997, arendments to draft legislation   Revisions and harmonization of Russian legislation,
harmonize trade                                                were introduced to ensure that the emerging  regulation and other measures, and their practical application
legislation,                                                   legal framework for trade measures (safeguards,  to intemational trade and investment will continue to be made
regulation and other                                           anti-dumping, countervailing duties, etc.) will be  in accordance with international standards and practices.
measures in line                                               in line with international norms.
with international
practice.                                                      In August 1997, Government Resolution No.
1037 was issued that revises product labeling
standards. Detailed information of what retailers
are to provide shall be clearly specified, as will
be the list of products subject to the regulation;
the classification system has been streamlined;
and national treatment standards have been
incorporated.
In September 1997, Government Resolution
No. 1193 was issued that revises the system for
marking products to ensure against
counterfeiting in line with international
standards. The coverage of products requiring
such markings have been reduced and
mandatory restrictions have been narrowed; the
certification process has been streamlined.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Trade Policy - Page 2
TRADE POLICY REFORM
[Pjt Preeltyatio f Ll   Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL2                                                   Medium-term Structural Reform Program
To be expanded under SAL 31l1998 EFF
3. Expand                                                      On July 8, 1997, President Yeltsin issued a          __
Production Sharing                                             decree No. 694 "On Production Sharing
Agreements                                                     Agreements (PSAs)" ensuring rights and
benefits of the Russian Federation in
implementing PSAs. In accordance with the
Federal Law "On Sites of Natural Resources
Deposits Entitled for Use under PSAs" there are
seven sites that can be developed in accordance
with PSAs. The sites include five oil and gas
fields, one iron ore deposit and one gold mine.
By December 1, 1997, the Government will
submit to the Duma a draft Law on Expansion
of PSAs to additional areas.
4. Implement a                                                 The Government has begun to put into place a
market-based                                                   market-based (nondiscretionary and transparent)
system for access to                                           system for access to oil transportation capacity
oil transportation                                             in the Novorosiisk and other constrained
capacity in                                                    pipelines. A new regime has been implemented
constrained                                                    through Presidential Decree No. # 693 of July 8,
pipelines and phase-                                           1997 and Government Resolution # 1130, issued
out of oil export                                              on September 2, 1997, in which access is
component of State                                             allocated in proportion to total production. This
needs program.                                                 regime will be effective throughout 1998.
However, oil producers will have the right to
trade access rights.
All resolutions and directives covering programs
of export of oil and oil products for State needs
were eliminated on March 16, 1997, except for
those under Government Resolutions #579 of
May 14, 1996, #208 of February 28, 1996, and
#736 of June 24, 1996. Under Presidential
Decree 693 of July 8 and Government
Resolution #988 of August 7, the government
I abolished these oil export programs effective
_____  ______________________  ___________   O ctober   1,   1997.



SWEDEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 7 B
T$o   nderw, en    Ooj    4p                                                                                                                                                                               SN; EP STATES Or
GERO RTH           11. r NOR THW ES               1CA
l  r  al44o2                                     rsnu                                R    Z3                C   cnlyn nv5                                                                      h   rp6              o7LAom
2.4Nen eiz       8.  Pskov                13.yTerr,  IvanovoR23.bVladimir$25.S IANgorod               31.  Dag                      41.  Kalmykia           49. F E E A i rON         54.  Chelyabinsk         62.  Gorny  Altai      71.  Chita                B1.  Kamche
5                                                                                                             -..~~~~7                                                                                                                                     $46
3.CNQM1RE6L~IX   7623gEKB
ROMAIT K            10.                                                                                                                         lECAI2 3R k4 eS$6                                n6                  o     i3QAm
5.N D   n16. Mascow28.Tambov                                                                             34.                           43.   S am araT           R 52.    Novgorod       7 Pe r
6.  Vologd617.   M scow   C y   29.Varoneh                35.   dygey 644.                    IQfla v5QE46                                                         m5ie.v
SWEDEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME 1995> 
4e~~~~~k3
N                                                                                                                             -     i~~4 - 4'64ri,-
A    n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
'DC  I                                               KAZAK(HSTAN                                                                                'W                   -. 79c                          t)I
SYRIAN~   z~.ri~  I I CQtiSe                      b               0   ISO  200  300  400500OTMILES             -X          6
eIRIAS E   '                                                                              206o   400   600   4KILOMETERS
RAQ       fORAjZREAN~-                              44    ,.                                                                                                       M  0  N G 0  L I A                                                               K IR'E
I. NORTH          II. NORTHWEST                   IIl. CENTRAL                 IV. CENTRAL               V. NORTH CAUCASUS             VI. VOLGA               VII. VOLGO-VYATKA         VIII. URAL            IX. WESTERN SIBERIA       X. EASTERN SIBERIA        Xi. FAR EAST
1. Arkhongel       7. No-gorod              12. Bryonsk   22. Tuic               CHERNOZYOM             30. Ch,ech-0                   40. Astaol,on          A8. Chuovosh              53. Eashkortoslon     61. Alto!                 70. Buryol                80. Amer
2. Nenete       8. Psoke                 13. Ivonono   23. Vlodimir         25. Belgorod              31. Doghesion                 41. Kalnwykio-         .49. Kiron                54. Chelyobsinsk          63. Gorny AIRoi        71. Chit.                 81. K-mhotlko
3. Kornlco         9. Leningrad             14. Kolega    24. Yenosloel        26. Korsk                 32, Ingvsk                       Khol6n  TOmqcIT     SD. Mariy El              55. Kurgan            63. Kernero-o                 72. Agin Beryot           82, KeryeIk
4. Komi            1 0. SI.Petersherg CLity  13. Kostroma                      27. LipeRsk               33. Kabordino-Bolkor          42. Penze              51. Mordoy                56. Orenkurg          64. N'oeosib!rsk          73. Irkutsk                83. Klholkeroeek
5. Murmansk                                 16. Moscow                         28. Tomboy                34. Krasnodar                 43. Samrn.s            52. Nielnniy Ndengorod    57, Perm              65. Omsk                      74. Ust-Ordyn Boryot      84. Jewish AO
6. Vologdo                                  17. Moscow CityP                   29. Voronezh                 35. Adygeyo                44. Sorotoe                                         58. Korni-Permnik, 66. Tomsk                 75. Krosnyoyrl             85. Mogedon
18. Ore!                                                    36. North Ossetia             45. Tolorsfon                                    59. Udmourt            67. Tymen                    76. BEenk                 86. Chekof
19. Ryazan                                                  37. Rostov                    46. Volgogrod                                    60. Snerdioosk            68. Khonty-Mansi          77. Khnkes             87. Primorski
20. Smolensk                                                38. Stra-rpol                 47. Ulyanevlk                                                              69. Yomolo-Nnneie         78, Toimir             88. Sokholin
I11. Koliningrod         2 1. Tner                                                       39. Ka,orolnee-Ckerkess                                                                                                     79. Twno                   89. Socho (Yokel
DECEMBER 1995



