Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4261 RU
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4261 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997 between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (The Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 27, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
Page  2
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and 
of these General Conditions;”
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively 9.05, 9.06 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eight 
hundred million Dollars ($800,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank, the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of $400,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) that the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is 
Page  3
consistent with the Program as determined on the basis of indicators set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of Program. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have 
given notice to the Borrower that the macro-economic framework is not consistent with 
the Program and progress achieved is not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank, then 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or 
any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single 
currency for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
Page  4
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program on February 10, 1998 or such other date as the Borrower and 
the Bank may otherwise agree.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
before December 31, 1999 which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 
Finance responsible for international economic affairs are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  5
Ilyinka, Street 9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
Page  6
112             -
Alcoholic beverages
121             -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122             -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525             -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718          718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728          728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971             -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)* 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2003
through September 15, 2014
33,335,000
and on March 15, 2015
33,295,000
Page  7
______________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3 
Macroeconomic Indicators referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Federal budget deficit
Enlarged government deficit
Federal government cash revenues
Net international reserves (NIR) of the monetary authorities
Net domestic assets (NDA) of monetary authorities
Net credit to the enlarged government by the monetary authorities
Net credit to the federal government by the monetary authorities   
