Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25248
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-41130; TF-29488)
ON
A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.75 MILLION
TO
HUNGARY
FOR A
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
12/30/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2002)
Currency Unit = Forints
I Forint = USS 0.004
US$ I = 234 Forints
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHIR          Database of Govenurnent Financial Information
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FAD           Fiscal Affairs Depa-tment
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GFMIS         Government Financial Management Information System
GFS           Government Finance Statistics
H/W           Hardware
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IS           Information Systems
IT           Inforrnation technology
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NBH           National Bank of Hungary
PFM           Public Finance Management
PFMP          Public Finance Management Project
PSAL          Public Sector Adjustment Loan
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
S/W           Software
TA            Technical Assistance
TLS           Treasury Ledger System
TSA           Treasury Single Account
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager    Helga Muller
Task Manager:    Hiran Herat



HUNGARY
Public Financial Management
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and BorTower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                10
9. Partner Comments                                                               11
10. Additional Information                                                        12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             21






Project ID: P043446                                     |Project Name: Public Finance Management Project
Team Leader: Hiran Herat                                 TL Unit. ECSPF
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name. Public Finance Management Project             L/C/TF Nunber SCL-41130; TF-29488
Counny/Department. HUNGARY                                             Region- Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/13/1995                            Effective  01/01/1997         02/07/1997
Appraisal:  08/01/1996                               MTR: 06/30/1998           09/17/1998
Approval:  12/05/1996                             Closing  06/30/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                           Jean-Michel Severino
Sector Manager:      Helga Muller                             Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:  Hiran Herat                              Hiran Herat
ICR Primaiy Author:  Ali Hashim, Hiran Herat; Hana
Polackova Bnxi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability -HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development (Dbjeceve and Design, eand of QuaiHty at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to assist the Government to optimize the deployment and use of its
financial resources through changes in the institutional structure of public finance and in the budgeting
process by: (a) introducing improved methods, guidelines and systems for budget preparation,
macroeconomic forecasting and, particularly, preparation of forward estimates; (b) ensuring smooth and
timely execution of the budget, while minimizing the cost of Government financing through the newly
established treasury; (c) optimizing the management of public debt; and (d) designing and setting up
coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and standards that would ensure that the different elements
of the Government's Public Financial Management (PFM) network can function as an integrated whole.
3.2 Revised Objective
The objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
The Public Finance Management Project (PFMP) focused on the key initiatives of the Government's public
finance management reform and was organized into four components as follows:
(a)    Budget Preparation: This component was designed to assist in development and
implementation ofimproved methods, guidelines, systems, processes, procedures and operating
manuals for budget preparation, macroeconomic forecasting and preparation of forward
estimates, and training MOF and agency staff for the implementation of the revised budget
preparation system.
(b)    Treasury Operations: This component was to build on prior work done by the Government,
and: (i) develop the full functional design of systems, processes and procedures for budget
implementation, expenditure control and treasury operations through the introduction of a
Treasury Ledger System (TLS); (ii) assist the Treasury in developing methodologies for
effective cash management; and, (iii) design, develop and help implement a training strategy
and plan for establishing the revised budget execution processes and the new treasury system.
(c)    Debt Management: Work under this component was to involve the: (i) development of
improved methods, regulations, guidelines and information systems for the recording, reporting
and issuance of government debt; and (ii) design and development and implementation of a
training strategy and plan for the implementation of the revised debt management system.
(d)    Public Finance Management Information Systems Network: In Hungary, a number of the
systems required to cover the full functionality of a Government Financial Management
Information System had already being implemented as part of separate projects (e.g., systems
for tax, customs, health insurance and social security administration). This component was
intended to identify the interfaces between these systems by the development of a data model
encompassing the data entities involved, and put in place policies, procedures and standards
that would ensure better integration between these systems.
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review (see 3.5) of the project stated with regard to the design of the
project: "It was well designed and based on strong commitment by the borrower to modernize its public
finance system to help prepare for entry to the EU. With only two counterpart agencies-the Treasury and
MOF, the project was a clean focused, straightforward operation". A PHRD grant was approved to
prepare the project, and was utilized to initiate activities under all four components.
3.4 Revised Components:
-2 -



The objectives of the first three components remained unchanged. However, activities under the last
component - PFM informnation systems network - were restricted to the development of a data model that
defined the relationships of the major data entities that were involved in public finance business processes
and on data which is captured by the various systems used for public finance. The data model was useful
for the development of data bases that would be used for budget planning during the budget preparation
phase and for budget control and fiscal reporting during the budget execution phase. Developments under
this component were financed by the Borrower and the funds earmarked for this component were
re-allocated to meet the investment requirements for the Treasury system.
3 5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry for this project was assessed in a QAG review of a cohort of four ECA technical
assistance projects carried out in August, 1998. The review rated the quality at entry as satisfactory. The
objectives were consistent with Government priorities and were proven feasible during implementation.
The counterparts were involved in all phases of project preparation and design. The QAG report stated:
"The project met a critical need. Ownership was strong and counterparts were capable. The project was
ready for implementation at approval. Like most TA operations, there was no conditionality and no explicit
policy content which was being covered in a separate adjustment operation."
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective.
The overall objectives of the project have been accomplished and the achievement of objectives can
therefore be rated as satisfactory. The Government launched a three-year plan, starting in 1996, to
improve financial planning, budget execution and a better coordination in financing government deficits.
This plan involved major changes in institutional arrangements, including the budgeting process.
Budgetary institutions at the central level were rationalized; the number of extra-budgetary funds reduced;
the skills required in public administration redefined; and the employment management and structure in the
public sector reformed. In January 1996, the Government undertook a critical step to ensure budgetary
control by establishing a Treasury, and introducing an interim Government Financial Management
Information System (GFMIS). According to the 1996 Budget Law approved by Parliament in December
1995, and the amendment to the Public Finance Law approved in November 1995, all central budgetary
institutions and most extra-budgetary funds were absorbed into the Treasury system. The specific outputs
for each of the project components are described below.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
Treasury Component:
The objectives of the Treasury component of the project have been accomplished. This component is rated
satisfactory. The necessary legal framework that authorizes the Treasury to control budget execution is in
place. A Treasury organization has been set up with a central office m Budapest and with 18 branches in
each of the provinces. All Government funds are controlled by the Treasury and are placed in a treasury
single account (TSA), with appropriate sub accounts, in the Central Bank of Hungary. In 2001, as part
of some amendments to the Public Finance Law, the Treasury was spilt into two organizations with the
State Treasury retaining the accounting function. A new organization, translated approximately as the State
Public Finance organization was created and given the responsibility for the budget planning aspects of the
Treasury's functions.
The central features of a full function Treasury system have been implemented and the system continues to
function satisfactorily. The main features of the treasury system are:
- 3 -



o Budget appropriations, as approved by Parliament and prepared in accordance with Government
Finance Statistics (GFS) compliant budget classification structure, are loaded into the system at the
start of the year. Budget apportionments, dividing the budget appropriations according to the budget
organization's monthly expenditure plans are also loaded into the system. These form the monthly limits
to expenditures. Changes to budget appropriations due to budget transfers, or to budget
apportionments, due to changes in expenditure plans are used to update the budget data in the system.
This set of data are used to control budget execution during the course of the year. This data is housed
and maintained by the TSA system developed under the project, and maintained by the newly created
Public Finance agency.
o In the case of the investment budget, commitment transactions for contracts in excess of a pre-
specified limit are also sent by the respective budget organization entering into the commitment to the
Public Finance Agency (originally part of the Treasury) and recorded in the system. These transactions
are used to update the expenditure plans for the organizations in the TSA system.
o Expenditure transactions from all ( about 1600) budget organizations funded from the central budget
are routed to the appropriate branch of the Treasury as they arise during the course of the year. The
Treasury checks to see whether these are within the authorized limits and then issues instructions to the
central bank, which holds the Treasury single account, to pay approved expenditures.
O Revenue receipts for tax and non tax revenues are deposited by taxpayers in designated Banks and are
then transferred to the appropriate Treasury revenue accounts in the Central Bank. In this way
Treasury has control over all government financial resources.
o The nature of the data transfer connection from the budget organizations to the Treasury varies. Three
modes are possible: Electronic connection to the Treasury branch, data transfer via computer
compatible media- diskettes, and hard copy depending on the available facilities. Eventually all
transactions will be routed electronically as the underlying telecom infra structure improves. The
Treasury and its branches have been connected to the GIRO system that enables them to transfer and
receive information from the Central Bank.
o The Treasury system, called the T2002 system, handles about 2.5- 3.0 million financial transactions
per month (including payroll transactions).
o The MOF has an electronic connection to the Treasury and has access to up to date figures on
expenditures and revenue receipts enablmg it to formulate fiscal policy measures. Previous years data
on actuals are useful in the preparation of the next year's budget.
The project has financed the hardware and software required at the Central Treasury Office, and the 18
branch offices, the telecommunication connections between the central Treasury and its branches, the
electronic connections between the MOF and the Treasury, the connections to the GIRO, and connections
to those budget organizations that have an electronic interface with the Treasury. The application software
for the Treasury system has been custom developed using an ORACLE DBMS from the Government's own
resources and using outside contractors. The Treasury maintains these systems with the help of outside
contractors and has a 50 person strong in-house IT department.
Budget Preparation Comaponeng
Budget management also accomplished all its objectives identified by the project and the component is
-4 -



rated satisfactory. Achievements have been made in establishing medium-term fiscal franework and in
promoting transparency of the budget preparation process. The medium-tern fiscal framework is
supported by new Budgetary guidelines and by newly developed capacities of the MOF in macroeconomic
forecasting and medium-term revenue and expenditure projections. Since then, improvements have
continued, albeit at a slower pace. Delays have been mainly apparent in the process to move toward more
performance oriented budget management.
During 2000-2002, a number of important amendments to the Law on Public Finance have established the
basis for a medium-term fiscal framework and further tightened the rules for issuing government guarantees
and momtoring of all major explicit contingent liabilities. On the medium-term fiscal framework, in
addition to providing 3-year cash flow projections on budgetary and expected contmngent liability outlays
with each budget since 1999, in 2001 the Ministry of Fmance launched preparation of a two-year budget of
binding nature. Perhaps most important on the monitoring of contingent liabilities, the Law on Public
Finance now (effective January 1, 2002) establishes a detailed reporting requirement for all agencies
covered by any kind of government guarantee or involved in activities of fiscal nature. This reporting
requirement now covers even the Hungarian Development Bank, a relatively large and growing source of
fiscal risk in Hungary. The reporting requirement is now enabling the Ministry of Finance to expand
coverage and improve the quality of its analysis of fiscal risks. While the risk assessments remain
confidential at the Ministry of Finance, the comprehensive list with face values of all credit guarantees and
list of other major explicit contingent liabilities are public, reported on the Ministry's website. The Law on
Public Finance has been complemented by a new Accounting Law that, among others, requires more
information on assets and both direct and contingent liabilities, and by a Government Decree that requires
that accounting and reporting of the Hungarian State Treasury is in line with the new Accounting Law.
During 2001-2002, the Ministry of Finance continued to improve the coverage, quality and relevance of
government financial information contained in the AHIR database (database of government financial
information). According to the new amendments to the Law on Public Finance, the AHIR database now
provides 1991-2002 series for general government financial data, covering central government,
extra-budgetary funds, social security, sub-national governments, and also non-government units whose
activities can be qualified as quasi-fiscal. The database is structured according to a four-digit functional
and economic classification, consistent with the GFS and COFOG classifications and with a bridge
available to the SNA93 and ESA95 systems of national accounts. The connection between the AHIR
database and budget database has also been improved to support budget preparation and evaluation.
As a result of greater transparency regarding the budget, direct and contingent liabilities and assets of the
central and sub-national governments, the Hungarian society has started to exhibit a greater public
awareness and independent views on government fiscal performance. Since 2001, several local research
institutions and media have been reporting "adjusted" deficit figures that reflect government off-budget
activities (for example, an extensive program of road construction financed through the Hungarian
Development Bank and its newly established Road Construction Corporation). Discussion on fiscal risks
has reached such a high profile that, in the 2002 election campaign, major opposition parties promised that,
if elected, they would cover all off-budget activities and fiscal risks in the government budget. Overall, the
State Audit Office has played an increasingly visible and positive role in promoting fiscal discipline and
transparency. Its reports analyzing the Government's performance on the budget and contingent liabilities
have been made public through the Office's website and press-conferences.
The project has financed hardware and software for the financial database. The Bank assisted the Ministry
of Finance in obtaining grant finance from the European Union (through PHARE project) and OECD,
which included long-term resident advisors and training for MOF staff. This grant financing was used in
- 5-



lieu of the funds allocated under the Bank loan, which was re-allocated to the Treasury component. In
addition, technical assistance was provided by Bank supervision missions, which frequently included
intemationally-recognized experts and practitioners and involved intensive brainstorming on the details of
possible budget reforms, and through seminars and policy hotline of the Quality of Fiscal Adjustment
Thematic Group.
IDebt Management
The objectives of the Debt Management component have been achieved and the component is rated
satisfactory with the development of improved methods, regulations, guidelines and information systems for
the recording, reporting and issuance of government debt, including training.
In April 2001, the Government transformed its debt management office into an autonomous Government
Debt Management Agency, a limnited liability company, that is owned by the Republic of Hungary.
Ownership responsibilities are carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, along with
the Hungarian State Fund Company and Office for General Government (both previously Hungarian State
Treasury) and the Debt Management Agency are represented in the Debt Management Agency's Executive
Board. The Debt Management Agency continues to be audited by independent auditors as well as the State
Audit Office. The objective of this institutional change has been two-fold: a) further limit interference
between monetary and debt management policies; and b) remove wage limits and thus reduce turnover and
improve the quality of staff.
In August 2001, at the suggestion of the Debt Management Agency and the Central Bank, the Government
adopted a new debt management strategy. The new strategy promotes the issuance of domestic currency
denominated debt and a more complete consolidation of domestic and foreign debt management practices.
The strategy reflects on the following macroeconomic developments: a) liberalization of the capital account
in Hungary, b) accumulation of excess liquidity in the domestic currency market (that is, the central bank's
request for support in its sterilization effort), and c) Hungary's expected EU accession and adoption of the
euro (that is the need to further develop the domestic bond market and make it competitive in the EU
context). Capital account liberalization, and particularly, the expected adoption of the euro have boosted
investors' confidence and thus also raised the demand of foreign residents for domestic currency
denominated debt. Effectively, the Debt Management Agency has not issued any foreign currency
denominated debt since mid-2001.
The Debt Management Agency, independent in establishing and implementing all other aspects of debt
management strategy, has further focused on the development of the domestic government bond market.
With debt portfolio maturing on average in less than 2 years, the Debt Management Agency has actively
tried to reduce the issuance of Treasury bills (changing the role of T-bills from deficit financing to liquidity
instrument), issue new bonds with longer maturities (including, for instance, an introduction of the 15-year
domestic currency denominated bond in 2001), expand the issuance of 3-year bonds and stop issuance of
the 2-year bonds. Furthermore, the Debt Management Agency has been working to bring the institutional
arrangements and procedures in the government bond market to the EU standards (for instance, by
changing the interest rate calculation method from linear to accrual and from 365 days to the actual number
of days), and to enhance liquidity of the domestic government bond market (for example, by reducing the
variety of government bonds and expanding the volumes of each bond issue, and as proposed, by
introducing foreign primary dealers and market makers in the secondary market). Moreover, the Debt
Management Agency is continuously enhancing its debt management benchmark to consolidate foreign and
domestic debt. Presently the benchmark has the following aspects: a) on foreign debt: currency - 100% in
euro, interest rate - 20% in floating and 80% in fixed rate bonds, b) on domestic debt: interest rate -
- 6 -



expanding share of fixed rate bonds, maturity - expanding from 2 years further up, and c) on reserves:
amount - 4 weeks oi required govemment spending (so far on the budget and direct obligations, not
contingent obligations).
The Debt Management Agency has also launched an intemal reorganization to consolidate the management
of domestic and foreign debt portfolio and establish a shared back office, middle office and front office.
The back office is developing a new consolidated debt data system (tuming the GTM system, financed by
the Public Finance Management Project, into a back-up facility). The new system is expected to serve as
the basis for both existing and new middle- and front-office modules. The middle office introduced new
models and practice in risk analysis, which includes the analysis of explicit contingent liabilities as well as
the entire portfolio of govemment debt. Training on the operations of the system was provided to the
agency staff.
The Project financed hardware and software to the Agency for implementing its debt management strategy.
In addition, as with the Budget component, the Bank was instrumental in assisting the Agency to mobilize
free advisory services and training from the European Union, OECD, US Treasury and even from the
World Bank through the European Borrowers' Forum, and thus was able to reallocate some of the project
resources from consulting services to hardware and software.
PFM Network:
The revised objectives of this component have been achieved. The activities under the component were
restricted to the development by MOF of a data model that defines the relationships of the major data
entities that are involved in public finance business processes and data which is captured by the various
systems used for public finance. The data model is being used to develop data bases that would be useful
for budget planning during the budget preparation phase and for budget control and fiscal reporting during
the budget execution phase. No Bank funds were used for this component. Funds allocated to this
component were diverted to meet the investment requirements for the Treasury system.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econom ic rate ofreturn:
N/A
4.4 Financwal rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a significant institutional development impact. The Hungarian Government has been
able to put in place a fully functioning Treasury organization with 18 offices in each of the provinces and
the center. All government financial flows relating to expenditures and receipts have been restructured and
are routed through the Treasury. Spending units bank accounts have been closed and a Treasury single
accounts set up with the NBH. Associated systems and procedures implemented under the project enable
better control on the use of Government financial resources and ensure that they are spent on items for
which they had originally been approved. The system enables better cash management and Government has
a good idea of the total cash resources available to it at a given point in time thereby enabling it to better
formulate its borrowing strategy. Efficiencies in budget execution achieved by the system, enabled the
Government to meets its financial obligations within the stipulated contractual time limits.
The new legal and regulatory framework for budget preparation and debt management, along with
- 7-



improved analytical and IT capacity at the MOF and Government Debt Management Agency have made a
major contribution to the reliability and relevance of financial information available to the Government.
Furthermore, the new approaches, such as the medium-term expenditure framework and government debt
management strategy have improved accountability in government decision making and in policy
implementation. Finally, these steps have also boosted overall transparency of the management of budget,
debt and fiscal risks in Hungary.
5. MWajor Factors Affecdng implementation andt Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or imnplementing agency:
The public finance management structures and institutions inherited from the socialist days were not
adapted to a market economy and called for far reaching institutional and policy reforms, which at times
were slow in coming. Timings and the scope of interventions that were intended to reform the existing
structures were in turn delayed. However, in the case of the areas targeted by this particular project the
delays were not significant.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Smooth implementation of the project depended on ownership of project activities, by the Government
collectively and the implementing agencies individually. For the most part, the implementing agencies
cooperated fully to meet the objectives of the Govermnent's reform program supported by the concurrent
PSAL operation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A project manager, with experience in Bank procedures was appointed, who coordinated the administrative
activities of the three entities. Project accounts and audits were submitted on a regular basis. The projects
audits were timely, and the audit opinions were always unqualified.
5.4 Costs andfinancing
The final project cost was US$10.39 million as compared to appraisal estimate of US$10.70 million
equivalent. The Bank loan of US$7.26 million financed 70 percent of the total project costs. Of the original
Loan of US$7.75 million, $490,000 remained un-disbursed and was cancelled. The original closing date of
the project was extended from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002, at the request of the Borrower. As of June
30, 2001, the project objectives were achieved however, some funds still remained (approximately
$850,000) and the Govermment wanted to utilize these funds to strengthen the treasury functions further in
line with the project objectives. As mentioned above, the Bank was instrumental in obtaining donor funded
grants and technical assistance, and as a result, several technical assistance activities were funded by
Grants and not Bank financing, which allowed the Borrower to request re-allocation of funds within the
categories.
6. sustaWnability
6.1 J?ationale for sustainability rating:
Achievements under the project are expected to be sustainable. The Institutional building activities
supported by the project included the setting up of the systems and procedures for budget preparation,
budget execution/treasury operations and debt management have been operating successfully over the last
two years of project implementation as has been described under the section describing the achievement of
project objectives. The institutional structures and systems have now become an operational part of the
arrangement for public finance management in Hungary. Funding under the budget has been provided to
the treasury for maintenance and upgrading of hardware and software procured under the project. In view
of this, it can be concluded that the achievements under this project are expected to be sustainable.
- 8-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Institutions and systems set up as part of this project are now routinely used by the Government as
part of its apparatus for public finance managements. The transition to regular operations has already
successfully taken place.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. Project design for the Treasury
system in particular was based on IMF recommendations. Close liaison with the IMF contributed to
suitable project design. There were no significant deviations from Bank policies or procedures during
project preparation. This project supported policy dialogue undertaken at the time of project preparation
under a Public Sector Adjustment (PSAL) operation, and was consistent with the CAS (June, 1995) for
Hungary. Bank and IMF staff assisted the Government in identifying key areas that needed technical
assistance to support the policy reforms being proposed under the PSAL operation.
7.2 Supervision:
Soon after project approval, the Task Team Leader (TTL) was posted to the Bank office in Budapest. This
contributed very significantly to the quality of project supervision since the implementing agencies were
readily available to get Bank advice on both the substantive and procedural aspects related to project
implementation. The TTL was able to solve all procedural problems associated with Bank procurement and
financial management on site and was able to quickly get relevant technical advice on budget management,
debt management and treasury and informatics issues from team members at headquarters. This mode of
operation made the supervision process a continuous activity rather than being confined to formal
supervision mnissions. The Bank team was also ably supported by both the Disbursements and the Legal
Departments.
A QAG review of a cohort of technical projects undertaken for ECA rated the quality of supervision for
the project as satisfactory. The Treasury component moved very quickly, within about a year of
effectiveness the bulk of the loan was disbursed five times the appraisal estimate. The Treasury system
implemented under the project is functioning well, processing and government receipts and expenditures
against a TSA set up at the National Bank of Hungary. The significant advances have also taken place in
the budget formulation and debt management areas with new methodologies systems and procedures in
place and functioning.
7 3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of project outcomes and the quality of supervision the overall Bank performance is assessed as
satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was involved in the preparation and design phases and quickly assumed the leadership in
formulating and executing project activities. In view of the proactive role played by the Borrower,
Borrower performance can be rated as satisfactory. The QAG review mentioned above, stated that Bank
supervision played essentially a supporting role to the Governments' energetic leadership, offering advice,
illuminating choices, exposing authorities to experiences elsewhere and encouraging collaboration among
agencies . The Bank also helped shape the terms of reference for technical assistance to be financed by
other donors, thus remaining involved in capacity building.
-9-



7.5 Government implenmentation perforinance:
The Ministry of Finance was responsible for overall project coordination. Execution of individual
components was delegated to the respective departments e.g. the Budget departnent of the MOF for the
Budget management component, The Treasury for the Treasury component and the Debt Management
Agency for the Debt Management component.
7.6 li?plementingAgency-
The implementing agencies mentioned above were responsible for the individual components.
They were very responsive to the irnplementation needs of the project and generally excellent cooperation
was established with the task team and maintained through out the project. A project manager and an
assistant was retained by the entities and unit in the National Bank of Hungary was responsible for
maintaining project accounts and the financial management aspects of the project, including project audits.
Since this person unit was well versed with Bank procedures, these tasks were accomplished very
efficiently.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrowers implementing agencies can be assessed as satisfactory
0. Lessons Learnedi
There are some lessons to be learned from this project:
(i)    Strong conmmtnment of the Government: It was recognized that substantive coordination was
required in a project of this sort to ensure that new process, procedures and methodologies for public
finance management which were designed under the project were introduced across Government in a
coordinated and consistent manner This type of coordination was possible only by pro-active participation
and guidance from officials at the highest levels who were part of the Government's overall reform effort
and were entrusted with implementing the Government's financial reform program. Strong and continued
Government commitment to public finance management reforms despite several staff changes at the highest
level in the MOF during the latter part of implementation was a key factor in the success of this project.
(ii)   Focused and a well deTmed program: This was especially applicable to the Treasury
component. In the design of this component, attention was carefully focused particularly to provide
adequate attention to functional design issues prior to computerization issues, to ensure effective and
efficient implementation. As a result, the execution of this component and its effectiveness has been
excellent.
(iii)  Availabiity of qualfied staff: The availability of qualified and committed staff at all three
institutions was another major factor in the smooth and efficient implementation of all components. A core
group of experts within each institution were assigned for the implementation of the components, and for
the most part were retained through implementation.
(iv)   Flexibdiity in design of components: The Bank and the counterparts worked closely to be
flexible on the designs and approaches to imnplement best practice solutions. Through Bank supervision
missions, experts from various countries were made available to the counterparts to discuss and brainstorm
with them the advantages and disadvantages of the different public finance management systems and
procedures used by different countries, which enabled the counterparts to have a better understanding of
their own requirements and not be confined to one particular system that may not have been the most
optimal. This flexibility, also led to a reduction in the cost of the PFM network component, which was
- 1 0 -



restricted to the development by the MOF of a data model that defined the relationships of the major data
entities that were involved in public finance business processes and data bases which were used for the
various systems used for public finance.
(v)    Continuity of project staff: The same Bank team that was at appraisal of this project was
involved with the project through to completion. In addition, the team leader was posted to the Bank's field
office in Budapest, which made communications with the participating institutions much smoother and
project administration very efficient.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Background
In the middle of 1990's the Hungarian Government decided to launch reform of public finance
management. The reform was initiated by IMF recommendations and associated by Bank. The reform
program aimed to change the public financial sector institutional structure and the budget planning and
management processes. The Government launched a three-year program to establish Treasury for
budgetary transparency and reduce waste of resources and increase efficiency and improvement of financial
planning. The consolidation started from January 1, 1996. The Treasury was based on county (regional)
structure with directorate in each capital of county. The Headquarter and the Budapest Branch formed in
Budapest. 18 branches forned in counties based on National Bank of Hungary branch network.
Project Objectives and Components
The Project objective was to assist and support Government to optimize the deployment of the reform
components. The reform components aimed to introduce new budgeting method, to minimize the cost of
government financing, to optimize the management of public dept and to launch new integrated Public
Financial Management. The Public Financial Management Project (PFMP) had four components to
achieve objectives. (1) Budget Preparation was designed to support development and implementation new
budget preparation methods and system. (2) Treasury Operation was founded to assist Treasury in
development effective cash management and in development the procedures of budget information. (3)
Debt Management contained the development new improved methods and information systems for
management of Governrnent debt. (4) Public Finance Management Information Systems Network
component aimed to identify interfaces between different systems which managed Government financial
information separately. This component also assisted to develop data models, procedures and standards.
Implementation experience and achievement of Objectives
All of the objectives have been accomplished. The Government three-year-plan to improve financial and
budget management started in 1996 has been successfully finished. The budgeting process was
rationalized.
(1) Budget Preparation Component has been accomplished by PFMP. Based on the medium term fiscal
framework a number of changes made in the Law of Public Finance. The two-year budget was launched
by Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has formed the database of Government financial
information which covers all of the relevance Government financial information. This database improved to
better support budgeting procedures.



(2) Treasury Operations Component has been successfully finished. The Treasury organization founded
with Headquarter, Budapest Branch and 18 branches in each county. The Treasury controls Government
funds. The treasury single account has taken place. Based on the Public Finance Law changes the
Treasury split to three organizations in 2001. (i) Debt Management Agency manages Government debts.
(ii) State Treasury covers accounting functions. (iii) State Public Finance Office manages the budget
planning functions. These three organizations manages treasury functions effectively and transparently,
improved the control functions. The treasury and budgetary management systems have been deployed,
including IT systems. There are electronic interfaces between systems to keep data up-to-date and
real-time. The systems are connected to other relevant financial systems via electronic interfaces too. The
number of transactions of treasury system increase year by year. The treasury system manages millions of
transactions by month.
(3) Debt Management Component has been accomplished. The Government formed the Govermnent Debt
Management Agency in 2001. The Agency is owned by Republic of Hungary with the Ministry of Finance
ownership responsibility. The Government launched the new debt management strategy. The Agency
focuses to the development of the domestic Government bond market. The Agency reorganized its
organization to manage tasks effectively, formed back office, middle office and front office. The Agency
deployed new processes, hardware and software elements and IT system to manage new procedures. The
PFMP supported the Agency to implement new strategy.
(4) Public Finance Management Infornation System Network component accomplished together with
Treasury Operation component. This component supported the identification of data entities which are
relevant for public finance processes. The Project assisted to define new data models for budget planning,
controlling and reporting.
Ba]sk Performainace
There were not any inconveniences or troubles about procurements which were executed in accordance
with rules of procurements of the Bank. The consulting, supporting and controlling activity of the Bank
was advantageous and adequate. The amount of the loan and the timeframe of project were harmonized
with objectives. The original plan of financing was well-founded. There is no doubt that the Project
objectives and results are advantageous. The Project successfully finished all of the components.
Assessment of Omtcome
The new implemented public finance management procedures and systems are still being used. The PFMP
catalyzed the Hungarian Government's public finance reform deployment. The new procedures, budgeting
and controlling methods, the new legal and organizational background have improved the public finance
management efficiency and transparency.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
N/A
10. Addfitfionall rmformtdon
N/A
- 12-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
*   -      - EIndicator/Matrix  . .         Projected in last PSR       -        Actual/Latest Estimate-l
Budget Preparabon.                   Introduce improved methods, procedures and Methods, procedures and systems for budget
Introduce improved methods, procedures and systems for budget preparation, macro  preparabon, macro economic forecasting and
systems for budget preparation, macro  economic forecasting and preparation of  preparabon of forward estimates implementd
economic forecasting and preparation of  forward estimates                 and in operation
forward eshmates
Treasury operations:                 Revised funchonal and technical design of  Treasurey single account in operation
- Revised functional and technical design of systems, processes and procedures for
systems, processes and procedures for  implementing a central payment process
implementng a central payment process  through the Treasury
through the Treasury .
Debt Management                      Establish debt database that would integrate Data base established and in operation
- Establish debt database that would  data for domestic and foreign public debt
integrate data for domestic and foreign public
debt
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix - -               Projected in last PSR ..   .   -E                       e
Improved methods and guidelines for budget Improved methods and guidelines for budget Improved forecasting techniques and forward
preparabon, macroeconomic forecasUng and preparabon, macroeconomic forecastng and estimates adopted
preparaton of forward estimates      preparation of forward estimates to be
completed
Revised structure and chart of accounts  Revise structure and Chart of accounts  New structures and chart of accounts
conforming with GFS and EU classification  conforming with GFS and EU classification  implemented and in operation
methodologies                        methodologies to be completed
Full functional design of systems, processes Full functional design of systems, processes Systems completed and in operation
and procedures for budget preparation  and procedures for budget preparation,
completed
Detailed regulations and operating manuals  Detailed regulations and operating manuals  Manuals completed and are being used
for Budget preparation               completed
Adequate numbers of staff trained in GFS  Adequate number of staff trained  Adequate number of staff have been trained
methodology
Full funcbonal design of systems, processes Full functional design of systems, processes Design of new system completed and
and procedures for Treasury Operations  and procedures for Treasury Operations  implemented. STA in operation
completed                            completed and implemented
Adequate numbers of staff trained in the use Adequate numbers of staff trained in the use Adequate number of staff trained in the use
of the new Treasury Operations Systems  of the new Treasury Operations Systems  of the new system
HiW, SAN delivered, installed and tested  HIN, SM1 delivered, installed and tested  Systems installed and provide required
functionality
Full functional design of systems, processes Full functonal design of systems, processes Systems and processes implemented and in
for Debt Management completed        for Debt Management completed and     operabon
implemented
Detailed regulations and operabng manuals  Detailed regulations and operaUng manuals  Manuals completed and in use
prepared                             completed
HAN, SAN delivered, installed and tested  HAN, SAN delivered, installed and tested  Systems implemented and provides required
funcbonarity
End of project
-13 -



Anmex 2. IPnroect Costs and Financ¢ing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
.-.1 FVaksalt  Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
- Project Cost By Compoonent          US$ mnilion   US$ million
Budget Preparation                                  1.10           1.58           1.44
Treasury Operations                                 4.50           6.62           1.47
Debt management                                     1.83           2.11           1.15
PFM-IS Network                                      2.42           0.00          -2.42
Project Manag,ement                                 0.85           0.08          -0.91
Total Baseline Cost                                10.70          10.39
TotaD Project Costs            10.70          10.39   1
Total Financing Required             10.70         10.39   1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (AppraisaD Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'  x w=>0- r';   '  'Procurement Method
Expendit,ure Category' .   C           NC8         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.09         0.09
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     3.24         0.00         0.58          1.91        5.73
(3.24)       (0.00)        (0.58)       (0.00)      (3.82)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.74         0.45         4.19
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.74)       (0.00)      (3.74)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         0.19         0.11         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.19)       (0.00)      (0.19)
5. Recurrent Costs           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.39         0.39
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     3.24          0.00         4.51         2.95        10.70
(3.24)       (0.00)        (4.51)       (0.00)      (7.75)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Categbry.,   [CB           NCB             2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
Expenditure                           ~~~~ ~~~Other _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     4.41         0.00         2.29         2.91        9.61
(4.41)       (0.00)       (2.29)      (0.00)       (6.70)
3. Seovices                  0.00         0.00         0.56         0.22        0.78
- 14 -



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.56)        (0.00)        (0.56)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Recurrent Costs               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         4.41           0.00           2.85          3.13          10.39
(4.41)         (0.00)         (2.85)        (0.00)        (7.26)
"Figures in parenthiesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1" n - - 1 I - I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percen0'ge of A.'ppraisaiI
IJ '<rO °"Conivonent  | C  -  ppraisal Estimate -  _ L   Actual/Latest Estimate I .  -            ! ,-!-  
=  ~     - __          _ =                                             _  _ __        _ -  -_     _. .
1- - Bank      Govt.   .'4 CoF. -   Bank      Go%..     CoF.     Bank   Gov'.  Col.
Budget Preparation        0.82      0.28                 1.28      0.30              156.1   107.1
Treasury Operation        3.27      1.23                 4.14      2.48               126.6  201.6
Debt Management           1.41      0.42                 1.78      0.33              126.2   78.6
PFM-IS Network            1.75      0.67                 0.00      0.00               0.0     0.0
Project Management        0.50      0.35                0 06       0.08               12.0   22.9
-15 -



AffunneT. 3. EconennDc Cost§ andl B3eneTits
N/A
-16-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Mzssions
Stage of-Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty      Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count        Specialty                  Progress   Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/1995                 6   INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
(2)
SENIOR FINANCIAL
ANALYST
PUBLIC SECTOR
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
ECONOMIST (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/1996                  5   INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
SPECIALIST
SENIOR FINANCIAL
ANALYST
PUBLIC SECTOR
MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST
ECONOMIST (2)
10/1996                 3   INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
SENIOR FINANCIAL
ANALYST
PUBLIC SECTOR
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Supervision
02/1997                  3   TASK MANAGER (1);             S           S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST
(1); PUBLIC FIN.
ECONOMIST (I)
09/1997                  3  TASK MANAGER (1);SYSTEM        S           S
SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
FIN.ECONOMIST
03/1998                  3  TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1);
PUBLIC FIN. ECONOMIST (I)
09/1998                  3  MISSION LEADER (1);            S           S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1);
PUBLIC FIN. ECONOMIST (1)
06/1999                  3   TASK MANAGER (1);             S           S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1);
PUBLIC FfN. ECONOMIST (1)
12/1999                  3  TASK MANAGER (1); SR.          S           S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL ECONOMIST (1)
-17-



05/2000                     1   TASK MANAGER (1)                  S            S
12/2000                     2   TASK MANAGER(I)                   S            S
SR. SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1)
06/2001                     2   TASK MANAGER (1); SR.             S             S
SYSTEMS SPECIALIST
12/2001                     1   TASK MANAGER(I)                   S            S
11CR
06/2002                     2    TASK MANAGER (I);                S             S
DNFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle.  1              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                           40.62                     299,986
ICR                                     4.00                     11,032
Total                                  44.62                    311,018
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Eli Macro policies                     O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Sector Policies                     OH    OSUOM      ON    * NA
D Physical                             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
CJ Financial                           O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Ol Institutional Development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
FO Gender                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
I Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N   * NA
I Public sector management             0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
3 Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
-19 -



Anxnex 6. Ratings of IBank %nd BSoirroweir Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS       OiU    OHU
OI Supervision                                       OHS OS       OLU    OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
OI Preparation                                       OHS OS       O  U   O HU
OI Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0   U  0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O   U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS       O  U   O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appriasal Report, Technical Annex No. T-6987-HU
Bank Mission Back-to-Office Reports and Aide-Memoires from 1997-2002
-21 -



- 22 -






Report No.:        25248
Type:     ICR



