Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6987-HU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8,1996
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as on June 1996)
Currency Unit = Forint
1 Forint = US $0.0065
US$]= 153 Forint
1993   1994   1995  June 1996
US$].00=      92.0   104.8  126.2  153.0
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBI           Central Budgetary Institution
EBF           Extra-Budgetary Fund
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GFMIS         Government Financial Management Information System
GFS           Government Finance Statistics
H/W           Hardware
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IS           Information Systems
IT           Information Technology
LPF          Law on Public Finance
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NBII          National Bank of Hungary
PFM          Public Finance Management
PFMP         Public Finance Management Project
PlFIRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PSAL          Public Sector Adjustment Loan
RDBMS        Relational Data Base Management System
RFP          Request For Procurement
S/W           Software
SIF           State Insurance Fund
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
TA            T'echnical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
TLS           Treasury Ledger System
TSA           Treasury Single Account
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31



PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pge
Loan  And  Project Summary ...................................................................i
1. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................................................1
2. THE PREVIOUS SYSTEM AND ITS SHORTCOMINGS ........................................3
Structure of Government ..................................................................3
Budget Preparation .................................................................3
Budget Execution ..................................................................4
Fiscal Information  System  ..................................................................4
Debt Management ...........                              ..4
3. REFORM    STRATEGY  AND  PROGRAMS ..............................................................5
A. IMF  Recommendations ...............................................................5
B. The Government's Reform  Program  ................................................................                        6
C.  Progress To-Date ................................................................8
4. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY ..........................................9
Lessons Learned ................................................................9
Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................................................                               10
5. THE PROJECT ...............................................................                                                       10
Objectives ................................................................ 10
Project Description.                                               ............................................................... 10
A. Budget Preparation  ...............................................................                                    11
B. Treasury Operations ...............................................................                                    11
C. Debt Management ...............................................................                                        12
D. Public Finance Management Information Systems Network (PFM-IS Network) 12
Project Administration  Support ............................................................                                 14
IMF  Coordination ...........................................................                                                14
Items to be Financed ............................................................ 14
6. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS, ACTIVITIES AND SCHEDULES ..... 15
Project Implementation Arrangements ...............................................................                          15
Project Sustainability ...............................................................                                       16
Project Launch, Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................................................  16



Table of Contents (continued)
7. PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS                           ..                  ............................. 17
Financing Plan ...............................                                              17
Project Costs ...............................                                            18
Procurement Arrangements ...............................                                 19
Methods other than ICB ...............                                                   20
Technical Assistance ............... 21
Disbursement and Financing Schedules ...........................                           21
Special Account ...........................                                                22
Audit Timetable ...........................                                                 22
8. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................       .                                   23
Benefits ...............................                                                   23
Risks ...............................                                                      24
ANNEXES
Annex I       Design and Implementation of a GFMIS
Annex II    Schedule of Technical Assistance
Annex III   Schedule of Hardware / Software and Training
Annex IV    Project Cost and Financing Tables
Annex V       Project Administration Activities to be Performed by MOF/NBH
Annex VI   Project Implementation Arrangements, including Procurement and Disbursement
Annex VII  Project Performance Indicators
Annex VIII Project Implementation Schedule
Annex IX    List of Selected Documents in Project File



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
Public Finance Management Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Republic of Hungary
Implementing Agency:    The Ministry of Finance
Beneficiaries:           The Ministry of Finance, The State Treasury
Poverty:                Not applicable
Amount:                 US$7.75 million
Terms:                   Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed
rate US Dollar single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 3-6 years
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See para. 7.1
Project ID Number:       43446






1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Hungary has experienced a major public finance crisis starting in 1994. An excessively
gradualist approach to the public sector reform, based on the desire to ensure social stability
during the transition, has led to unsustainable levels of expenditures and fiscal deficits. The large
budget deficits have expanded Hungary's public debt. With gross external debt of 70 percent of
GDP, and a debt service of 8 percent of GDP, Hungary is one of the most heavily indebted
countries.
1.2   Faced with large internal and external macro imbalances, the Hungarian authorities
announced in March 1995 a package of stabilization measures, including: (a) significant cuts in
fiscal expenditures; (b) strict wage controls in the public sector; (c) increases in fiscal revenues;
and, (d) an up-front devaluation of 9 percent and introduction of a pre-announced crawling peg.
The stabilization efforts continued in 1996 and included a strict budgetary policy. This policy has
led to significant improvements. The consolidated government deficit (excluding privatization
revenues) is expected to be reduced to 4 percent of GDP in 1996 from a record level of 8.4
percent in 1994. The estimated revenues and expenditures of the general government in 1996, at
46 percent, and 50 percent respectively, are 7 and 11 percent, respectively, lower than in 1994.
The primary balance of the general government (excluding interest revenues and expenditures)
shows an even more radical improvement, from a deficit of 2.7 percent in 1994 to an expected
surplus of 3.7 percent in 1997. These measures and further fiscal corrections are needed to
maintain the budget and current account deficits at sustainable levels. Moreover, major structural
reforms in the public sector and in the banking and enterprise sectors are necessary to reduce the
size of the State, release resources for the private sector, and thus to ensure a high and sustainable
growth.
1.3   To address the most severe structural weaknesses in the public sector, the Government
has prepared a plan for a comprehensive public finance reform. The reform of the public sector is
expected to be fully implemented over a period of about four years, starting in 1996. The public
finance reform program emphasizes institutional improvements that yield the largest budgetary
savings, promote transparency of actions, while simultaneously increase the efficiency of public
services and of the allocation of public resources. The program concentrates on restructuring and
reforming: (a) the welfare system; (b) tax policy and tax administration; (c) public administration
and public finance management; and (d) intergovernmental finances.
1.4   The reform of public finance management is necessary to improve the allocation of public
resources. The organization and financial management of government operations face several
major problems. First, widespread earmarking of revenues reduces the flexibility in reallocating
scarce public resources to priority needs. Second, anticipated budget management practices
hamper effective expenditure control. Third, public debt management is inefficient and suffers
from too fragmented responsibilities with independent borrowing authority granted to various



2
agencies. Fourth, the government financial information system is inadequate for budget planning
and execution.a
1.5   The Government has launched a three-year plan, starting in 1996, to improve financial
planning, budget execution and a better coordination in financing government deficits. This plan
involves major changes in institutional arrangements, including the budgeting process. Budgetary
institutions at the central level are being rationalized; number of extrabudgetary funds reduced;
skills required in public administration redefined; and the employment management and structure
in the public sector reformed. In January 1996, the Government undertook a critical step to
ensure budgetary control by establishing a Treasury, and introducing an interim Government
Financial Management Information System (GFMIS). According to the 1996 Budget Law
approved by Parliament in December 1995 and the amendment to the Law on Public Finances
approved in November 1995, all central budgetary institutions and most extrabudgetary funds
have been absorbed into the Treasury system. A Council of Treasury consisting of representatives
from the MOF, the NBH and the Treasury has been established as a decision-making body to
coordinate the monetary, fiscal and debt policies.
1.6   The IMF has been advising the Government on setting up the Treasury and on key aspects
of budget preparation and expenditure management over the last two years. The US Treasury and
the UK Know How Fund are also rendering advice to the Government on budget and treasury
matters. The Bank has been collaborating with both the IMF and the bilateral providers of
technical assistance to assist the Government in its reforms and in preparing a Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PSAL).
1.7   The Government has approached the Bank to finance the development and implementation
of new systems, processes, procedures and methodologies required for the implementation of the
new institutional structure and processes of public finance, associated with the revised budgetary
processes and treasury operations and management. The Bank has evaluated the proposals and
has found the proposed project justified for financing because it:
-     addresses priority problems (chapter 2);
-     fits within an overall program for public sector reform (chapter 3);
-     takes into account lessons from prior Bank experience and is in accord
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (chapter 4);
-     has priority objectives and needed content (chapter 5);
-     has reasonable costs and a feasible implementation plan (chapter 6 &7);
-     would confer important benefits in public finance management (chapter 8);
the risks are limited and worth taking (chapter 8).
EI See International Monetary Fund, Hungary: Strengthening the Financial Management of
Government Operations, Fiscal Affairs, July 1994.



3
Following an explanation of the current system in chapter 2, these points are elaborated in
sequence in subsequent chapters.
2.    THE PREVIOUS SYSTEM AND ITS SHORT COMINGS
2.1   Previous analyses by the Hungarian Authorities and by the LIMF and the World Bank staff
highlighted significant weaknesses in the budget system and the financial management of
government operations. These have been reported on in previous Bank and IMF reports (e.g.
Hungary--Strengthening the Financial Management of Government Operations--IMFJFAD, July
1994, PSAL Concept Paper -January 1996- World Bank). The features of the previous system
that hindered effective financial management in the central and local governments are summarized
below.
Structure of Government
2.2   The structure of the Hungarian Government and the nature of the general government
financial flows could be characterized as extremely decentralized, which significantly hindered
effective budget preparation and execution, as well as cash and debt management. Lack of
control over Central Budgetary Institution (CBI) activities also retarded potential efficiency
improvements in resource allocation. CBIs, in addition to performning state tasks as specified in
their enabling legislation, could supplement their resources by engaging in additional tasks, some
of which are clearly commercial in nature. However, given the implicit subsidies on the inputs
they used (equipment, labor, utilities), the prices charged for the goods and services sold by CBIs
did not reflect the cost to society of the resources used. In addition, widespread earmarking of
revenues reduced the flexibility in reallocating scarce public resources to priority needs.
Budget Preparation
2.3   Under the previous information system (para 2.7), the final data on budgetary chapter
revenues and expenditures, including activities of the CBIs and Extra-Budgetary Funds (EBFs)
that they supervise, were often not available. One result of this was a persistent underestimation
of budgetary chapter revenues, generally the own revenues of CBIs. The unavailability of timely
and sufficiently disaggregated data on CBI revenues and expenditure made it difficult to reallocate
budgetary resources among CBIs both within budgetary chapters and among chapters. Moreover,
limitations in the data reporting system hindered chapters and the MOF in examining the
efficiency with which these programs are administered. Finally, although data on end-year cash
balances for each budgetary institution (chapters, CBIs, FBFs) were available, the lack of detailed
data on revenues and expenditures did not allow the MOF to adjust annual budgetary transfers in
light of previous year's own revenue performance. Given the CBIs' ability to collect, retain and
spend own revenues, a right explicitly given in the Law on Public Finance, the total revenue and
expenditure levels proposed by the Government and approved by Parliament were in fact not rigid
limits, but were instead indicative targets.



4
Budget Execution
2.4   The decentralized nature of central government operations, and the absence of a central
Treasury, posed difficulties in effective and efficient cash and debt management. Budgetary
institutions in Hungary had individual bank accounts. Because the CBIs have independent
responsibility for own revenues and total expenditures, and because of limitations on the
timeliness of information generated by the previous system, the MOF and the NBH had
difficulties in forecasting net government credit.
2.5   The State Insurance Funds (SIFs) were separated from the state budget in 1989 and split
into separate pension and health care funds in 1993. However, for some important aspects of
debt and cash management, they were for all intents and purposes still part of the state budget.
They had access to the state budget's Liquidity Fund to cover revenue shortfalls. Their revenue
and expenditure accounts were separate from the Liquidity Fund accounts, however, and the
MOF was not aware of their projected cash flows. This of course hindered efficient cash and
debt management, and posed difficulties in formulating and executing effectively monetary
policy.
2.6   The SIFs, as well as particular EBFs, are granted, in the context of the annual budget,
authority to borrow independently of the state budget. Allowing decentralized borrowing powers
makes macroeconomic control difficult as it is more difficult to convince the independent
borrowers of the need for adjustments in their activities consistent with changing economic
circumstances.
Fiscal Information System
2.7   As mentioned above, the fiscal information system was inadequate in providing timely
and sufficiently detailed data on government operations in a form that is useful for policy
making, execution and control. It should be noted that, following the adoption of the Law on
Public Finance (LPF), detailed semi-annual reports were required from all budgetary institutions
at the central government level, as well as aggregated data at the local level. In addition, less
detailed "flash" reports were required at the end of each quarter. In spite of these improvements,
budget preparation, execution and control continued to be hobbled by the system. Without
adequate time to analyze detailed data by institution and by program, the Government was not
able to use public money efficiently. The budget continued to be prepared with less than
appropriate knowledge of the present circumstances.
2.8   The lack of timely information also did not allow adequate expenditure verification and
control. Moreover, without an effective on-line system, it was not possible to effect rapidly
cutbacks in budgeted expenditures that became necessary in the face of changing macroeconomic
circumstances or revenue shortfalls. Finally, the lack of information did not allow appropriate
consolidation of government revenues and expenditures.
Debt Management
2.9    Weaknesses were also present in the management of the public debt. Specifically these
included: (a) fragmented institutional responsibilities for debt management; (b) independent



5
borrowing authority granted to certain government agencies; (c) government financing by the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH); (d) excessive diversification of government debt instruments
and of issuing techniques which hindered the deepening of the secondary market; and (e)
insufficient emphasis on creating institutional conditions (in particular a strengthened legal and
regulatory framework and adequate supervision) for the smooth functioning and development of
this market.
2.10  Shortcomings of the system highlighted in the foregoing paragraphs led to the
development of the Government's reform program for fiscal management described below.
3.  REFORM STRATEGY AND PROGRAMS
A.   IMF Recommendations
3.1   The main reform measures recommended by a series of IMF (Fiscal Affairs Department)
missions are summarized below.
3.2   The Budget Process The central government budget should include the detailed budgets
of: the state, including the budgetary chapters; each of the CBIs and extra-budgetary funds. The
approved expenditures for each budgetary chapter and each of the other central government
agencies should represent mandatory limits for the budget year. Modifications to the approved
budgets should, in principle, be authorized by Parliament through supplementary budgets.
3.3   The current classification scheme for the budget should be revised, with a view to
improving its usefulness for economic analysis and to allow accurate consolidation of
intragovernmental flows of revenues and expenditures.
3.4   Government agencies should be required to maintain records of (and once a computerized
financial information system has been set up, register in it) all phases of expenditures, namely the
commitment of funds, verification of the obligation to pay, issuance of the payment order, and
actual disbursement of funds.
3.5   Financial Management of Government Operations. As a matter of priority, and in line
with the practice of most western economies, a State Treasury should be established within the
Ministry of Finance. The Treasury should have as primary responsibilities: (a) planning and
ensuring the orderly financial execution of the budgets of the central government, including the
CBIs and the extra-budgetary and social insurance funds; and of the transfers between central
and local governments; and (b) planning and coordinating the financing of government deficits.
3.6   The Liquidity Fund of the state and the bank accounts of budgetary chapters, CBIs, extra-
budgetary funds and social insurance funds should be consolidated into a Treasury Single
Account (TSA) at the NBH. This step needs to be accompanied by the development and
progressive implementation of a computerized, on-line government financial management
information system (GFMIS), the main features of which are outlined below. The consolidation
of the bank accounts of the above-mentioned entities into a single Treasury Account would be
accompanied by the creation of ledger accounts for these agencies in the GFMIS. All revenues



6
would be deposited in the T'SA, but would also be credited simultaneously to the appropriate
account in the GFMIS. Transfers between agencies would be registered in the GFMIS, but
would not affect the TSA. Only payments to entities outside the system would be debited to the
TSA. This, of course, would help reduce the financing requirements of the Treasury, and
consequently the interest charges to the budget.
3.7   The financial consolidation of government balances would be compatible with the
continuation of a decentralized execution of the budgets of government agencies. The Treasury
would continue to ensure an orderly flow of transfers from the state budget to the other agencies.
The agencies would be able to effect (within the limit of the relevant budgetary allocation) any
payment for which they had sufficient balance in their GFMIS account.
3.8   An overview of the proposed GFMIS structure and functions is given at Annex I.
B.   The Government's Reform Program
3.9   The Government has now prepared, in association with Bank staff and following the IMF
recommendations, a plan to address the most severe structural weaknesses in the public sector.
Some initial measures have been implemented as part of the 1995 stabilization package and
further measures were planned for 1996. The public sector reform program involves expenditure
reforms, including a major reform of the local government and pension system; reductions in
cash benefits combined with better targeting of transfers to the poorest households; and a plan to
reduce employment in the civil service; revenue system reforms, including gradual reductions in
payroll taxes; a realignment of the personal income tax structure; and improvements in tax
administration; and reforms in budgetary institutions and the budgeting processes, including the
establishment of a Treasury.
3.10  The proposed reform program will introduce changes in the institutional structure of
public finance and in the budgeting process. The program will focus as a priority on institutional
improvements that yield the largest budgetary savings, promote transparency of actions and
simultaneously reduce waste of state resources and increase the efficiency of public services.
Complementing these measures, the Government is launching a three year program to establish a
Treasury, to improve financial planning, budget execution and better coordination of the
financing of government deficits generated by the various subsystems of public finance.
3.11  Establishment of a Treasury. rhe Government has established a central Treasury to
improve: (a) financial planning; (b) financial execution of the budgets of budgetary chapters,
autonomous central budgetary institutions, extra-budgetary funds and Social Security funds and
of transfers between central and local governments; and (c) planning and coordination of the
financing of government deficits. The separate accounts of central budgetary institutions and,
particularly, the liquidity fund -- the central MOF account, which is the net balance of many credit
and debit accounts maintained by NBH -- have been progressively consolidated into a Treasury
Single Account (TSA) maintained by NBH. This consolidation took place with effect from January
1, 1996. This will be complemented by the development of a GFMIS, incorporating ledger
accounts for both budget preparation and implementation and a system to monitor financial flows.
As a result, all government revenues would be deposited in the TSA and simultaneously credited to
the GFMIS. Transfers between agencies would be registered in the GFMIS but would not affect



7
the TSA position. Only payments outside of the TSA system would be debited. In this way, the
Treasury system is expected to lead to a more efficient cash management and savings in financing
of the Government.
3.12  The Treasury has been structured into central and regional directorates. The central
directorate would concentrate on policy, regulation and control over the Treasury operations, the
execution of national cash and debt management, and would provide the executive and
parliamentary bodies with financial management information for decision making. The regional
directorates would perform the day-to-day Treasury and accounting services to the government
agencies in their geographical areas, interface with the local branches of the National Bank of
Hungary for access to the TSA, and with the central directorate for information exchange.
3.13 Under a decree of July 1995 and an Amendment of the Act on Public Finance of November
1995, the Treasury is expected to: (a) enforce a strict relationship between the budget appropriation
and payments; (b) implement new systems for cash and debt management; (c) eliminate the transfer
of cash in transactions between government agencies; (d) implement a homogenous accounting
system and GFMIS to increase the transparency of budget execution and the quality of financial
information available to government agencies; (e) implement a centralized TSA at the NBH; (f)
ensure that all government receipts and payments to non-governmental agencies are transacted
through the TSA; and (g) carry out detailed accounting for agencies connected to the system.
3.14  The Government has set up a task force in the MOF, headed by a Deputy Secretary of State
having the rank of Ministerial Commissioner, to fully implement the establishment of the central
Treasury system. Implementation of the Treasury systems and of the GFMIS is expected to take
place during 1996-98 with the following major actions:
*     January 1, 1996 - Adjust legal framework for government financial management;
adopt required budget and accounting nomenclatures; start operation of the Treasury Single
Account; absorb all central budgetary institutions and extra budgetary funds into the
Treasury circle; eliminate cash payments between government agencies, including
collection of social security tax for public employees; start effecting payments against
payment orders generated by the CBIs in response to specific vendor invoices, rather than
by pre-financing agencies in anticipation of such payments. Government institutions would
maintain detailed accounting records but would assure that accounting is based on the new
classification system and Treasury management regulations.
*     January 1, 1997 - Extend the above mentioned measures to other central budgetary
organizations and public bodies, including the social security institutions; start providing
detailed GFMIS based accounting and management reporting to the central government and
its agencies. Government institutions would still retain parallel accounting as a security
measure.



8
3.15  According to the original decree, Treasury operations were to be extended to local
government (municipalities) and public bodies outside the central budget. However, due to the
legislative complexity involved in the incorporation of local governments into the treasury circle,
and the specialized nature of the local government financial systems, Government has
subsequently decided that this issue required more examination. The above-mentioned decree
was accordingly modified in April 1996, postponing the incorporation of the local governments
into the Treasury.
C.   Progress To Date
3.16 Reforms have progressed substantially since the government decision of July 4, 1995,
with a number of initiatives proceeding in parallel. These are summarized below.
3.17  Treasury Operations. The January 1996 actions have been accomplished. The legal and
policy steps have been implemented according to the timetable. The necessary high level
amendments to the legal framework have been developed. The changes were approved by
Parliament in November, 1995. The detailed regulations and procedures necessary for the day-
to-day operation of a treasury system have been developed.
3.18 An interim Treasury Ledger System (TLS) has been developed by the Treasury to
accommodate appropriation accounting for the CBI's and EBF's (absorbed into the Budget) at an
aggregate level. This system has been implemented from January 1, 1996. Some of the main
conceptual elements of the treasury system, namely a single account for government operations,
a centralized ledger system, and a payment system based on payment orders rather than advance
funding are in place. However, the interim system does not include a number of important
functions required in a full GFMIS and further conceptual design work is necessary.
3.19  Budgeting. Work has commenced, with the assistance of the US Treasury, to classify the
Budget consistent with GFS methodology, and develop a chart of accounts for use in the final
Treasury System. The central budget preparation process is already well formalized and logical in
approach.
3.20  The budget preparation process is supported by a computer-based system capable of
rapidly collating the figures from ministries (supplied by email, on diskette or on paper) and
performing re-calculations where necessary. The system is also connected directly to the
Parliament building to allow changes required by Parliament to be incorporated immediately into
the database. The Budget Department is in the process of upgrading considerably the IT
capability (the database software will be significantly enhanced with a move from MICROSOFT
ACCESS to ORACLE).
3.21  However, the fiscal information system must be upgraded, so that the final data on
budgetary chapter revenues and expenditures, including central budgetary institutions and extra-
budgetary fimds, are made available for the preparation of the annual budget and for effective
budget execution and control. The Budget Department needs to improve its access to necessary
information from local governments and from the Social Security Funds. Ultimately, not only the
Treasury, but also local governments will need to update their information technologies to be able
to support a proper budget preparation process.



9
3.22 Following recommendations developed under PSAL, the government program also
acknowledges the need to improve coordination between the budget preparation and budget
execution areas. This will involve bringing together the development of a budget preparation
system with the work on the Treasury system. The databases of both budget preparation and
budget implementation will be constructed on one identical chart of accounts and at the same level
of detail. Thus, under the Public Financial Management Reform program, the existing databases
will be consolidated, and compatible operating software systems will be developed and harmonized
across the Budgeting Department and the Treasury.
3.23 The IMF has been advising the Government on setting up the Treasury and on key aspects
of budget preparation and expenditure management over the last two years. The US Treasury
and the UK Know How Fund are also rendering advice to the Govermment on budget and
treasury matters. The Bank has been collaborating with both the IMF and the bilateral providers
of technical assistance to assist the Government in its reforms and in preparing a Public Sector
Adjustment Loan.
3.24 Debt Management. The Debt Management Office of the Treasury manages the issue and
recording of domestic debt. The NBH is currently responsible for external debt management. The
current set of systems used for management of the issue and recording of domestic debt
instruments is fragmented. It includes five different groups of information systems to assist in the
processes of public trading, auction of treasury bills, over-the-counter trading of government
issues, and to assist in record keeping and analysis of domestic debt data. The Treasury has
recently completed an analysis of the deficiencies of the current set of information systems to
assist in the management of domestic debt and has developed a statement of overall functional
requirements. The Treasury is examining proposals for the design and implementation of an
integrated system for the management of domestic debt.
4.    LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY
Lessons Learned
4.1   Sector experience of the Bank and the Tax Administration Modernization Project (3635-
HU) in Hungary indicates that projects with a sizable amount of technical assistance and
information systems investment should: (a) be carefully focused, particularly to provide adequate
attention to functional design issues prior to computerization issues to ensure effective and efficient
implementation; (b) have the active support of government and ministry officials, to ensure
properly considered and timely decision-making on crucial issues; and (c) have a well-defined
procurement plan including terms of reference for consultants and studies, drafted and agreed with
the Borrower prior to negotiations.
4.2   Based on these lessons the Public Finance Management Project will focus on four specific
areas for which govermnent commitment and financing have been secured. A procurement plan,
including terms of reference for consultants and studies were drafted and agreed with the Borrower
prior to negotiations, and finalized during negotiations. Also, given the importance of institutional



10
capacity building and information systems in the project, the project team will closely supervise
handling of the design, procurement and implementation challenges.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.3   The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Hungary which
was discussed by the Executive Directors on June 15, 1995. The objectives of the CAS are to
help Hungary maintain macroeconomic stability and accelerate its growth to facilitate EU
accession; reform public finance and social policy and strengthen the human resource base; and
strengthen and privatize Hungary's financial and enterprise sectors. The PFMP will focus on
reforming the institutional structure of public finance and on the budgeting process. By
designing and implementing the necessary tools, the project will assist the Government in both
implementing and monitoring the required measures of the public finance reform. The project
will also complement the Public Sector Adjustment Loan, which is currently under preparation
and aims at restructuring Hungary's social expenditures, particularly pension and health care.
5.    THE PROJECT
Objectives
5.1   The overall objective of the project is to assist the Government to optimize the deployment
and use of its financial resources through changes in the institutional structure of public finance
and in the budgeting process by:
(a)   introducing improved methods, guidelines and systems for budget preparation,
macroeconomic forecasting and, particularly, preparation of forward estimates;
(b)   ensuring smooth and timely execution of the budget, while minimizing the cost of
government financing through the newly established Treasury;
(c)   optimizing the management of public debt; and,
(d)   designing and setting up coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and
standards that would ensure that the different elements of the Government's Public
Finance Management (PFM) network can function as an integrated whole.
5.2   This project would assist the Government in designing and implementing a set of tools to
enable it to move forward in the implementation of planned changes in the institutional structure
ofpublicfinance and in the budgeting process.
Project Description
5.3   The project focuses on the key initiatives of the Government's program of Public
Financial Management Reform. The proposed project is organized into four components and
will provide technical assistance, computer equipment and software to assist the authorities to



I1
design, develop and implement processes, procedures, systems, related regulations and training
programs for:
(a)   Budget Preparation;
(b)   Treasury Operations;
(c)   Debt Management; and,
(d)   Policies, procedures and standards for the PFM information systems network.
(a) Budget Preparation (base cost US$0.978 million)
5.4   For this component, technical assistance would be provided to: (i) develop improved
methods and guidelines for budget preparation, macroeconomic forecasting and preparation of
forward estimates; (ii) review the existing budget coding structures, and, if necessary develop
and design a revised structure and chart of accounts conforming with the GFS and the EU
classification methodologies and suitable for both budget preparation and implementation; and
(iii) develop a functional design of systems, processes and procedures for budget preparation.
The project would then provide technical assistance, computer hardware and software during
implementation to:
(a)   implement the revised budget coding structure and chart of accounts for the
central government;
(b)   develop detailed regulations and operating manuals;
(c)   develop the technical design and implement an information system to assist the
Government in the budget preparation process. This would include incorporating
modifications to the existing information system for budget preparation so as to ensure
that it is able to record the budget appropriations in the same form including the use of an
identical chart of accounts and level of detailed breakdown that is used during the budget
implementation phase by the treasury system; and
(d)   design and develop a training strategy and plan for the implementation of the
revised budget preparation system.
(b) Treasury Operations (base cost US$3.97 million)
5.5   Technical assistance is being provided under a PHRD grant to build on prior work done
by the Govermnent towards the development and implementation of the interim treasury system
which is now operational. Technical assistance will also be provided to develop the full
functional design of systems, processes and procedures for expenditure control and treasury
operations to complete the design of a full function Treasury Ledger System (TLS). Particular
attention would be paid to incorporating all elements of the expenditure control process,
including checking for budget appropriations, prior commitment and verification for receipt of
goods and services, prior to authorizing payment. The necessary detailed regulations and
operating manuals would also be developed. It is critical that work under the Treasury
Operations component be closely coordinated with that of the Budget Preparation component and
that the databases for both systems use an identical chart of accounts to provide for the proper



12
functioning of the budget execution processes. This will be ensured during the design of the
Treasury system. During implementation, the project would provide technical assistance,
computer hardware and software to enable the Government to complete the technical design of
the system and implement the system at the Central Treasury and the Regional Treasury Units.
(c) Debt Management (base cost US$1.63 million)
5.6  In this area, technical assistance would be provided to enable the Government to develop
improved methods, regulations and guidelines for debt recording, reporting and issuance. The
work would be carried out in close cooperation with the agencies responsible for both domestic
and foreign debt management to:
(a)   develop improved methods and functional design of systems for ledgers of
domestic, foreign and the aggregate public debt, and government sureties and advances;
(b)   design an appropriate standardization of debt instruments, auction rules and
calendar of issuance and refunding, for both the foreign and domestic debt; and,
(c)   develop an action plan that would assist the government debt management offices
coordinate and optimize their debt policies vis-a-vis the government securities market,
including further institutional development of the central registries of dealers and
investors, and surveillance of dealers and audit.
(d) Public Finance Management Information Systems (PFM-IS) Network
(base cost US$2.17 million)
5.7   A number of different systems modules are required to cover the full functionality of a
Government Financial Management Information System. Figure 1, below, shows the possible
core elements of a PFM systems network for Hungary and the main information flows between
elements. This Information Systems Architecture for PFM has been derived by analyzing data
from a number of countries on public financial management processes and the information
systems required to support these processes and applying the results to the Hungarian situation.
The Y-axis lists the main functional processes associated with PFM and the X-axis the
organizations normally responsible for these processes. Each box in this diagram lies at the
intersection of the functional process and the organization(s) normally associated with the
process and may be seen as a information support system for that process. Each such system
could in practice comprise a number of subsystems. The main information flows between the
systems modules are also shown in the diagram.
5.8   More often than not, these systems are implemented as components of separate projects,
responding to specific needs, with little appreciation of requirements in other areas and little
thought given to critical interrelationships. The resulting information systems are often disparate
and segmented with little or no capacity for sharing data. They have overlapping and sometimes
conflicting functionality and provide incomplete coverage, particularly for managerial
information requirements, which normally span several functional areas. Once the initial
framework has been set up and the pre-requisites and criteria for integration have been spelled



13
~~-I-"-!~~~~~~~- -  - - - --- -   I     - 
.    _.                                  ''
. ,
t~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~    - - - - - - - -s]] - - - - -E -| -1| -        
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - C
I   &~~~~~~~I



14
out and incorporated in the implementation plan, the actual implementation of systems modules
would be carried out as part of individual projects for respective areas.
5.9   For this component the project would provide technical assistance to develop policies,
procedures and standards necessary for ensuring integration between the different elements of the
information systems network and finance any hardware/software requirements for the
implementation of these policies, procedures and standards (e.g., implementation of data
administration standards, acquisition of tools for introducing formal systems development
methodologies, communication technology for defining and implementing appropriate methods
of communications between systems modules; etc.). The project would also finance the design
development and implementation of those items/elements (e.g., common reference files) of the
network that would need to be developed centrally and the design, development and
implementation of interfaces, as required, between modules.
Project Administration Support
5.10  A unit in the NBH, responsible for coordination of Bank projects, and already staffed
with personnel trained in Bank procedures for procurement and disbursement, will assist the MOF
during project execution. Funds have been allocated under the project for additional short-term
administrative support.
IMF Coordination
5.11  The IMF has been extensively involved in advising the Government in the areas
addressed by the project and the Government has designed its reform program based on these
recommendations. The Government has expressed a desire to ensure IMF involvement in the
implementation phases of its reform program. The IMF would accordingly continue to advise
the MOF/Treasury on the substantive aspects of the Budget Preparation, Treasury Operations and
Debt Management Systems. A PHRD Grant has been providing funding during the preparation
and functional design phases to finance technical assistance in budget preparation, accounting
design, expenditure control, treasury operations and debt management, and for the design and
development of the computer systems. PHRD grant and project financing would be available to
the Government for the acquisition of specified services from normal sources of technical
assistance, including the IMF, subject to contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. The
Bank would retain the overall supervision responsibilities as well as the supervision of project
implementation, procurement and disbursement.
Items to be Financed
5.12 For each of the components described above, the project would provide financing for
consultant services, computer equipment, software, telecommunications, support services, and
technical contract staff capacity for the development and implementation of the budget preparation,
the Treasury GFMIS and debt management application systems. Details of technical assistance,
computer hardware and software, services and training are described in the Schedules attached at
Annexes II and III.



15
5.13  Information technology goods consisting of computer hardware (UNIX-type computers,
PC-type work-stations, associated systems software and telecommunications devices) would be
contracted as part of an ICB package. Additional areas of contracting would include: (a)
acquisition of application development tools and DBMS; (b) acquisition/development of
application software for the budget preparation, treasury operations and debt management
systems; (c) contract staff for systems development and implementation activities and for initial
operation of the system; (d) systems integration and auditing services; and (e) training courses, site
visits for Treasury/MOF finance and information technology staff.
6.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS, ACTIVITIES AND SCHEDULES
Project Implementation Arrangements
6.1    A detailed implementation schedule is given at Annex VIII. Implementation arrangements
related to each project component are described below. These components are expected to be fully
implemented over a four year period with most activities completed over three years. The Ministry
of Finance would administer the funds under the project and coordinate project activities. The MOF
has appointed the Deputy State Secretary, MOF, to serve as the Bank's counterpart for and
coordinate the activities under this project. A unit in the NBH, responsible for an overall
coordination of Bank projects, and already staffed with personnel trained in Bank procedures for
procurement and disbursement, will assist the MOF during project execution and will coordinate
periodic reporting requirements on project progress (Annexes V and VI). Four teams have been set
up to implement the reforms in the areas of Budget Preparation, Treasury Operations, Debt
Management, and to develop and implement policies, procedures and standards across the PFM-IS
Network, respectively:
(a)   the MOF Department of State Budget would lead the efforts related to the
development of the policies, methods, guidelines for budget preparation, including
methodology and functional requirements for preparing in-advance budgets, revision of the
chart of accounts, in coordination with the Treasury Department, and the functional design
of the computer systems required for budget preparation;
(b)   the Treasury would coordinate the activities related to the development of the
detailed regulations and the specifications of the processes, procedures and the functional
design of the systems for expenditure control, cash management and treasury operations;
(c)   the Debt Management Unit of the Treasury, would direct the Bank assistance in
developing and implementing policies and information technology for public debt
management; and
(d)   activities related to setting up coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and
standards to ensure that the different elements of the PFM systems network interface
seamlessly would be coordinated from the office of the Deputy State Secretary, MOF.
6.2   It is recognized that substantive coordination is required in a project of this sort to ensure
that the new processes, procedures and methodologies for PFM, designed under the project, are



16
introduced across government in a coordinated and consistent manner. This type of coordination
can only be achieved by pro-active participation and guidance from officials at the highest levels
who are part of the overall government reform effort and are responsible for implementing the
Government's financial reform program. This type of coordination and guidance is expected
from the Deputy State Secretary (MOF) in his capacity as the overall project counterpart.
Project Sustainability
6.3   The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon the commitment by the
authorities to the project objectives. As mentioned above, the Government has indicated its
commitment to the public financial management reform, and set an explicit timetable for the
implementation of the GFMIS and the treasury system. Work under this project builds on efforts
already underway in the budget preparation, treasury operations and debt management areas. These
efforts also give a strong indication of Government commitment.
6.4   Another critical condition for project sustainability is that the Treasury be able to
assimilate and retain the transfer of technology. As mentioned above, considerable progress has
already been achieved by the Government on interim information systems in several areas and
staff in the MOF/Treasury are familiar with the use of information technology. The project
would build on existing efforts and supplement technological skills as required.  To
institutionalize the technology changes smoothly, the PFMP would recruit foreign and local
specialists and structure training programs for the staffs. The major investment in information
technology would occur as part of the Treasury Operations component. The project would also
rely on the Treasury's Information System Project Group to provide the technical skills required
for systems development and maintenance in this area. For other areas where suitable skills are
found lacking, the PFMP would permit the MOF/Treasury to recruit and finance technical staff
from the market, on a consultancy basis. By developing long-term training strategies, the project
would also ensure sustained institutional support and would extend relevant elements of the
training program to budgetary chapters, central budgetary institutions and other agencies
associated with the implemented systems. The increased participation of the local private sector
in the systems development process would also help ensure sustainability.
Project Launch, Monitoring and Evaluation
6.5   Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the inputs, key process
milestones, track outputs and assess the impact of the project inputs on the project's major
development objectives. A comprehensive set of project milestones and performance indicators
have been developed (Annex VII). These will be used as a basis for monitoring and evaluating
the project. A project launch work shop would be held in January 1997. A mid-term review
(June 1998) has been incorporated to assess performance achieved and to review the
appropriateness and continuing relevance of the project design. The project implementation
schedule developed along with the Government appears at Annex VIII. Quarterly progress
reports would be provided to the Bank describing the status of implementation and procurement
activities. For maximum efficiency, project follow up will be managed from the resident mission
in Budapest.



17
6.6  In view of the significant complexity and difficulty of technical assistance projects of this
nature, Bank staff and consultant supervision inputs are expected to be high compared to the
average but comparable to other similar projects. It is estimated that the requirements,
summarized in the Table 1, will be in the range of 20-25 staff weeks/year. Supervision would
include: (a) general portfolio management - review of procurement and consultant contracting
documents, progress reports and correspondence; and (b) formal reviews- participation in the
mid-term and other reviews; (c) supervision missions. Two supervision missions would be
necessary annually each for a period of two weeks on average.
Table 1: Supervision Plan
Timing      Staff Weeks     Staffing
FY97         22 weeks      Task Manager (8 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (8 weeks)
Public Finance Management (PFM) Specialist
(6 weeks)
FY98          22 weeks      Task Manager (8 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (8 weeks)
PFM Specialist (6 weeks)
FY99          16 weeks      Task Manager (6 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (6 weeks)
PFM Specialist (4 weeks)
FY 2000       10 weeks      Task Manager (4 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (4 weeks)
PFM Specialist (2 weeks)
FY 2001       10 weeks      Task Manager (4 weeks)
Information Systems Specialist (4 weeks)
PFM Specialist (2 weeks)
7.    PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS
Financing Plan
7.1   The project cost is estimated at US$10.70 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$6.67 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$7.75 million will finance 72
percent of the total project costs, 85 percent of foreign exchange and 41 percent of local costs.
The MOF will finance the balance of project investment costs (about US$2.95 million)
equivalent, including duties and taxes which are estimated at US$1.91 million equivalent.



18
Recurrent incremental costs, which comprise equipment operations and maintenance and
facilities service costs, estimated at US$0.391 equivalent, will be financed entirely by the
Government. The financing plan is summarized in Table 2. A more detailed breakdown of the
financing is shown in Annex IV.
Project Costs
7.2    Total project costs by project component and by expenditure category are given in Annex
IV. Total costs, including investment and recurrent costs for the project period, are estimated as
base costs, plus physical and price contingencies, taxes and duties. Base costs were estimated in
April 1996, using the experience of other Bank projects in the region, similar activities in
neighboring countries and detailed input from various Hungarian counterparts (See Annex IV
for the detailed estimates). Project costs include a physical contingency for unforeseen physical
variations (US$0.468 million) equivalent to about 5 percent percent of the base cost of all
project items. Price contingencies are calculated at US$0.865 million. The following rates were
used to cover expected price escalation: local costs 11 percent for CY 1996-2000; foreign costs
2.5 percent for CY 1996-2000.
Table 2: Financing Plan by Financier and Component
Total Cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties
(US$'000)
Component               IBRD       Percent    Govt.      Percent     Total     Percent
Amount               Amount                Amount
Investment Costs
Budget Preparation           904      82.2        195        17.8      1,099        10.3
Treasury Operations        3,406      74.9       1,140       25.1      4,546        42.5
Debt Management            1,483      80.1        368        19.9      1,851        17.3
PFM-IS Network             1,742      71.7        687        28.3      2,429        22.7
Project Administration       213      56.2        166        44.8       379          3.5
Support
Total Investment Costs     7,748      75.2       2,556       24.8     10,304        96.3
Recurrent Costs                -         -        391       100.0       391          3.7
Total Project Costs        7,748      72.4       2,947       27.6     10,696       100.0
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



19
Procurement Arrangements
7.3     Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarized  in  Table 3.   Deta.hi
schedules are given in Annex VI.
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
Total Cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties
(US$ million) a
Expenditure Type                      ICB              Other              NBF d              Total
Equipment                        _
Standard H/W, S/W                      3.24              0.58               1.91              5.73
(3.24)            (0.58)c                               (3.82)
Application S/W                                          1.76              0.228              1.98
(1.76)e                               (1.76)
Civil Works
Site Preparation                                                           0.086              0.086
Consulting Services                                      1.98               0.22              2.20
(1.98)_                              (1.98)
Training & Study Tours                                  0.195              0.111             0.306
___________________________   ______________       (0.J95)f                              (0.195)
Total                                  3.24              4.51               2.55             10.304
_____________________________         (3.24)             (4.51)                               (7.75)
Recurrent Costs
Equipment   Operations   and
Maintenance
H/W, S/W  Maintenance/License                                               0.23              0.23
Fees
Telecommunications Costs       |  X                                        0.061             0.061
Utilities Postage and Supplies    _              l                         0.043              0.043
Miscellaneous                                                              0.058              0.058
Total                                                                      0.391              0.391
Total Project Costs                   3.24               4.51               2.94              10.70
(3.24)            (4.51)                               (7.75)
Notes:
a:  Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
b:  Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by IBRD.
c:  Includes International shopping (IS) for small amounts of goods for which the cost of ICB outweighs any possi .-
price advantages. IS will be used for contracts up to an aggregate amount of $0.45 million; prudent Natic- -
Shopping may be used for sundry items not exceeding $25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $0.1
million. Direct contracting for proprietary, time critical or special compatible equipment may be used up ta
aggregate amount of $0.03 million equivalent subject to Bank's prior review.
d: NBF = Not Bank Financed and includes $1.91 million in taxes and duties on goods to be paid by the Governmer..
e:   Application Software estimated to cost $1.50 million equivalent would be acquired by Limited Internattio.-
Bidding. Application software estimated to cost $0.26 million would be acquired by International Shopping.
f:  Includes Bank financed consulting services and training to be procured in accordance with the Bank's guideli,e.
for use of consultants.



20
7.4   Procurement of Goods. Equipment contracts which are estimated to cost more than
US$300,000 equivalent per contract will be procured following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" January 1995. Equipment procurement has been packaged according to related
specialized fields. Computer Hardware and Standard Software procured through ICB will
account for about 85 percent of the total equipment value (US$3.2 million out of a total
equipment cost of US$3.82 million (excluding duties and taxes). Taxes are estimated at US$1.91
million equivalent. The remaining 15 percent of the equipment value will be in packages
suitable for procurement other than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured
through ICB, local manufacturers, which have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that: (i) labor, raw materials and components from within the country of the Borrower
will account for more than 30 percent of the ex works price of the product offered, and (ii) the
production facility in which the goods will be manufactured or assembled has been engaged in
manufacturing/assembling such goods at lease since the time of bid submission, would receive a
preference in an amount equal to: (i) the amount of duties and other related import charges which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered; or
(ii) 15 percent of the CIF or CIP bid price of such goods if said duties and charges exceed
15 percent of such price. Appropriate Bank standard bidding documents will be used for
procurement of goods and equipment. (The General Procurement Notice for the project appeared
in the July 1996 edition of Development Business Forum).
Methods other than ICB
7.5   Limited International Bidding (LIB) & International Shopping (IS). Contracts for
application software purchase/customization, estimated to cost US$1.50 million equivalent,
would be awarded under Limited International Bidding procedures in view of the fact that they
would require specialized software and associated services available from a few sources.
Procedures for International Shopping will be used for small amounts of equipment where the
cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages. Contracts for equipment not to
exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.45 million equivalent, and contracts for custom
development of application software estimated to cost US$0.26 million, will be awarded under
International Shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from two eligible countries, in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
7.6   National Shopping (NS).  Minor sundry items, such as small lots of information
technology and office equipment, not exceeding US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.1 million equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of prudent national
shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
7.7   Direct Contracting (DC). Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees: (i) are of
proprietary nature; (ii) the timely supply thereof is critical for efficient project execution; or
(iii) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be procured through direct
negotiations with property and/or copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual property such as books, technical journals,
training materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications software, including annual



21
upgrading and licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights for training
materials, are estimated to cost under US$30,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
7.8   Civil Works. Civil works to upgrade facilities to accommodate the information systems
coming under the project represent an estimated value of US$0.086 million equivalent. These
will be financed entirely by the Government. Table 1 of Annex VI shows the major procurement
packages for goods.
Technical Assistance
7.9   Qualified firns will be invited to submit proposals for foreign technical assistance (TA)
in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency", August 1981. Terms of reference for major TA
components have been drafted and agreed with the Borrower. To keep the evaluation process
manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited from a shortlist
acceptable to the Bank. It is anticipated that technical assistance will be procured in packages at a
total cost of US$1.98 million equivalent. As needed, the services of individual specialists for
advisory services will be contracted on the basis of shortlists of eligible candidates. Out of the
total TA, it is anticipated that about US$0.10 million equivalent of the aggregate for technical
assistance would be for individual specialists.  Table 2 of Annex VI shows the major
procurement packages for technical assistance.
7.10 Bank Review. For goods, the Bank shall review the Borrower's procurement plans,
decisions and procedures in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). In particular: (i) each contract estimated to
cost US$300,000 or more, which will cover all ICB contracts; and (ii) all LIB and all direct
contracts; shall be subject to prior review, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines. Other goods contracts costing less than US$300,000, shall be subject to post review
in accordance with paragraph 4 of the Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. For technical assistance
contracts, the applicable review procedures are discussed in various sections of the Guidelines
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981). Terms of reference for all consulting contracts would require prior review by the
Bank. Consultants contracts above $100,000 for firms and above $50,000 for individuals would
require prior review by the Bank. However, for technical assistance contracts under US$100,000
for firms and under US$50,000 for individuals, the Bank will require prior review of only the
terms of reference and short-lists of potential consultants.
Disbursement and Financing Schedules
7.11  Disbursements. To enable early start-up of the project, retroactive financing up to US
$775,000 is provided to cover eligible expenses incurred from September 16, 1996, but not later
than one year from the signing of the loan agreement. Disbursements against contracts for goods
less than US$300,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of statement of expenditures
(SOEs). Statement of Expenditures would also be used for all consulting firm contracts less than
$100,000 and individual consultants contracts less than US$50,000 and for all expenditures on
training, fellowships and studies. All related SOE documentation would be retained by NBH, the



22
implementing agency, and made available for subsequent examination by independent auditors
and Bank supervision missions. The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period
of five years, which is considerably shorter than the relevant profile in the Region (about seven
years). The shorter implementation period is possible due to the strong commitment of the MOF
and generally high level of technical and organizational competency in the relevant agencies.
The closing date will be June 30, 2001. A summary of the disbursement plan is shown in Annex
VI (Table 3). Disbursements of World Bank Funds will be made as shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Proposed Disbursement Categories
Category               Amount of Loan        Percent of Expenditures to
(US$ million equivalent)        be Financed
Equipment                            5.00            100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85 percent
of other local expenditures
Consulting Services                  1.80            100 percent of expenditures
Train'mg                             0.20            100 percent of expenditures
Unallocated                          0.75
Total                                7.75
Special Account
7.12 The Borrower will establish and maintain a Special Account (as specified in the Loan
Agreement) with an authorized allocation of US$700,000. This will be exclusively for making
payments from the proceeds of the Bank Loan. The initial deposit of the authorized allocation
will be limited to US$350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank shall be
equal or exceed the equivalent of US$ 1,000,000:
(i)   all applications for direct payment or special commitments must be for an amount
not less than 20 percent of the initial deposit of the authorized allocation to the special
account or not less than 20 percent of the full authorized allocation once available; and
(ii)  applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted on a
monthly basis or when one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, which ever
occurred earlier. Submission of replenishment applications takes precedence over the
minimum size application as stated in (i) above.
Audit Timetable
7.13  Project Audits. Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited in accordance
with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank (March 1982). The Borrower will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each



23
fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements
against certified statements of expenses (SOEs). The separate opinion should mention whether
the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
7.14 Reporting and Annual Reviews. NBH will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial
reports on each project component, objective and activity (beginning from the date of Loan
Effectiveness). The reports will describe: (i) current status; (ii) deviations, if any, from the
implementation plan; and (iii) the reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Reporting and Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of: (i) the emerging policy
framework; (ii) the effectiveness of component and sub-component activities and their
consistency with agreements reached at negotiations; (iii) performance of the implementing
groups and institutions; (iv) emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters; and
(v) possible follow-up operations which could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will
be based on the semi-annual progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities by
the NBH. This will be supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of
financial resources, in addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance groups
implementing and/or assisting in the implementation of various components, and discussions
with responsible authorities. A mid-term review of the project is planned for June 1998. This
Technical Annex will provide the basis for supervision and reporting.
8.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
8.1   The PFMP would lead to substantial financial and economic benefits. By developing the
central Treasury system and optimizing the budgeting process and debt management, the project
would contribute to reducing the Government's borrowing needs and costs. Tools and skills
developed under the project would enable access to timely, accurate and consistent financial
information to improve resource planning, cash management, budgeting, macroeconomic
forecasting, and public expenditure management and control. Development and implementation of
policies, procedures and standards for the PFM-IS network would enable the Government to
obtain anticipated benefits from the substantial Information Systems/Information Technology
(IS/IT) investments that are being made in the PFM area.
8.2  Improvements in the public finance management would promote the capacity to properly
formulate and execute fiscal policies. Particularly, the consolidation of various information
databases, consistency in the classification of expenditure items, and an effective system to control
expenditure and monitor cash flows would enhance transparency and accountability in the fiscal
processes. Since these are within the direct purview of the state machinery, no alternate approaches
to reforms appear feasible. The project would, however, explore alternative design strategies to
enable the Government to decide on the most suitable configuration for the system. The project is
crucial to the Government Public Financial Management Reformn and to transparency and
accountability in government operations and its benefits would therefore be far-reaching.



24
Risks
8.3   On the general level, in introducing an improved system of public finance, it may be
difficult to overcome entrenched positions, attitudes and the many interests, which have benefited
from financial uncertainties and lack of control. The enactment of the government decree setting
up the Treasury and the adopted adjustments in the legal framework for government financial
management have, however, significantly reduced these risks.
8.4   Among the more specific risks, the project would need to cope with the organizational
capacities of the MOF to manage the reforms under an extremely tight schedule and coordinate the
inter-agency activities.  Other risks relate to the technological changes and the subsequent
requirement on technical skills. To ameliorate these risks the PFMP will provide for: (a) the phased
implementation of financial systems in a few key areas and building on work already accomplished
by the Government in these areas; (b) structured development of new systems under the control of
internationally experienced experts; (c) employment of technically proficient staff within the MOF
and from the private sector for the technical design, development and implementation of the
information systems; and (d) training and technical assistance for financial staff within
Government. There is also a risk that a central organization established with the limited function of
setting up policies, procedures and standards would interfere with or take over actual project
implementation for the various information systems projects currently underway in the PFM area.
This risk would be mitigated by restricting activities under this component to the scope outlined in
the project documents.



25
Annex I
Page 1 of 12
Public Finance Management Project
Design and Implementation of the Government Financial Management Information System
(GFMIS)
Structure of the System
1.  In its ultimate physical configuration, the proposed system would consist of a network of
computer units of varying capacity, linked by dedicated telecommunication lines. At the core of
the system would be a central computer unit, located in Budapest within the Ministry of Finance,
and supported by a few smaller units attached to regional branches of the proposed Treasury. To
these units would be linked, through the telecommunication network, microcomputers located in
the government agencies whose funds would be held in the TSA, and whose ledger accounts
would be kept in the GFMIS. These agencies would include the budgetary chapters, the
remaining extra-budgetary funds, the social insurance funds and those among the CBIs whose
volume of operations funded by the budget would appear to justify a direct linkage to the system.
Over time, the system could be extended to process the operations of the larger local
governments, even if they were not required to keep their funds in the TSA.
Functions of the system
2.   A key characteristic of the proposed system would be that no operation involving a
movement of public funds could be effected by any government agency linked to the system
without registering the operation into it. This would ensure that the system provide a
continuously updated and accurate picture of government financial operations, as they were
being executed.
3.   The system could also be designed to process in a speedy and efficient manner the various
steps for the preparation of the budget. Once the budget had been approved by Parliament, the
spending limits for each line item of each agency would be registered into the system. The
system would then control the conformity of each proposed expenditure with the relevant budget
allocation.
4.   The implementation of the system would permit a more active and flexible financial
planning and cash management by the Treasury. The Treasury would prepare rolling at least
monthly (and preferably more frequent) financial plans, utilizing updated information received
through the system from the tax and the customs authorities about expected collection of taxes
and customs duties, and from the other agencies linked to the system about projected own
revenues and expenditures. On the basis of this information, the Treasury would: prepare and
execute a program of state budget transfers to each agency's account in the system, within the
limit approved in the budget and in accordance with the cash needs of the agency; and design and
update regularly, in close cooperation with the NBH, a program of government debt issues, with
a view to ensuring that projected net outflows from the TSA (including for the payment of



Annex I
Page 2 of 12
26
maturing debt) could be financed without excessive and abrupt changes in the balance of the
TSA.
5.   The system would control the execution of the budget, ensuring the conformity of payment
orders registered into it with the relevant budgetary allocation, the prior commitment and
verification of the expenditure, and that the balance in the agency's ledger account would be
sufficient to cover the payment.
6.   The system would be programmed to effect automatically the accounting of each operation
registered into it. Thus the system would generate complete and up-to-date reports and accounts
of government operations, for the use of budget managers and of economic policy makers.
7.   Access to the information generated by the system would, of course, be differentiated
appropriately, according to the nature of the agency and the level of authority of the individual
involved. The development of the system would include a careful design of internal controls and
security routines.
A possible implementation strategy for the system
8.   The design of the logical structure of the system; the development and testing of its
software; the specification, acquisition and installation of the required computer hardware and
telecommunications lines; and the training of officials in the Ministry of Finance and the
spending agencies in the use of the system, would require considerable time. The IMF
recommended a progressive strategy of implementation of the system, beginning with linking to
it the budgetary chapters, and the extra-budgetary and social insurance funds. The coverage of
the system could be subsequently expanded progressively to: the main CBIs in Budapest; central
government spending agencies in other regions; and the larger local governments.
The Logical Operation of a Treasury Ledger System Within a Government Financial
Management Information System
9.    The objective of this section is to illustrate the methodology of a Treasury Ledger System
(TLS) concept. A full functional analysis and system definition is required to articulate an
operational system which can be computerized. A full implementation of treasury operations
will require; first, the development of a TLS to be maintained and operated by the MOF; and
second, the establishment of a Treasury Single Account (TSA) at the National Bank to
consolidate the government's monetary assets. In this system the TSA is a government bank
account to which all receipts are ultimately credited and all payments debited.
10.   The central Treasury Ledger System serves as the key component, or data base, of the
Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS), upon which other
components of a public expenditure management (PEM) process can be built. This modular
approach to PEM is illustrated in Chart 1. The TLS combined with the Budget Implementation,
Fiscal Reporting and Debt Management modules is often referred to as a Treasury System, to be
operated by a Treasury Department.



Annex I
Page 3 of 12
27
Thus, the TLS will be used by the:
a.    Budget Preparation Department and subordinate branches, in the course of
budget preparation; and,
b.    Treasury Department and subordinate branches, in the course of budget
implementation (including, particularly, cash and debt management).
11.   A basic underlying principle is that the system will be built along functional rather that
organizational lines and will provide support to all organizational units involved in the PEM
process. This approach has the advantage that it enables the creation of integrated systems and
data bases in which the primary responsibility for the timely provision of a particular subset of
data resides with the agency responsible for that function. However, all data in the system data
bases are accessible by all relevant agencies (subject to appropriate authorizations). This design
eliminates duplication in data gathering and, more importantly, enables all agencies entrusted
with financial tasks to work with the same set of data, thereby ensuring consistency of data, a
frequent deficiency when data are gathered and recorded separately.
12.   The implementation of these processes could be effected in two ways, depending on the
linkage of the spending units to the system--direct or indirect.



28
Annex I
Page 4 of 12
Chart 1
Government Financial Management Information System--Modules I/
Budget         F Economic   I        Internal and
Ipreparation  I   I  Trends            l |External Controll
Treasury Ledger
System 
I    (Data Bank)   I
| ~      ~~~~ 1       I           F l  Debt       l
Fiscal        I   Budget    I   I Management  |
I Reporting  I   limplementation|    I - Internal  I
lIl   I             l   |I- External  |
|Budget Fsecution  IF|inancial Planning]  F inancial   1Accounting      l
|- Appropriation    - Forecast of re- |    xecution      - Chart of
- Commitment         venues and ex-  ||- Inflows to TBA |  accounts     l
|- Verification    |  penditures       - Outflows from  ||- Accounting   l
|- Funds Allocation|i- Forecast of debtl|  TBA             rules        l
|  servicing      ||- Payments        - Controls     l
|  ||- Cash management ||- Receipts  I                l
1/ Each module is a set of operations utilizing the Treasury Ledger System (Data Bank) (TLS)
with information flowing both to and from the TLS.



Annex I
29                                  Page 5 of 12
13.   Thus, each of the sectors mentioned above will be responsible for the integrity and
accuracy of the information data base that it maintains within the system. In return each will
have access to information provided by the other MOF units. The information contained in the
data bases would also be available to other ministries and government agencies on an "as
required/approved" basis, to enable them to better manage their financial activities connected
with approved programs.
14.   To become a credible source of information for users, such an integrated system would
need to be comprehensive in terms of coverage and be a source of reliable and timely data. The
system's data bases would provide the MOF and other central agencies with a foundation for a
comprehensive management information system related to the State's financial resources.
15.   The GFMIS, including the TLS database, can also be viewed on a time line. Chart 2
shows this relationship with year zero (YRO) as the year of budget execution. The GFMIS can
be designed to contain data relating to a number of years: for historical analysis purposes, for
budget preparation (including future year estimates called forward estimates) and for budget
execution. YRO is further expanded in the chart to show key control fields after used in budget
execution.
16.   This section addresses in detail only the budget implementation process (those
components specified under the Budget Implementation Box) and also addresses only
expenditures in a detailed manner. The budget preparation process can be developed in a similar
manner, to reflect the operation of the Budget Preparation Module, using the TLS as a database.
Revenues collected by the tax and customs administration would be recorded at an aggregate
level in the TLS, I/ and would be reconciled with deposits made in the TSA.
Execution of budgetary expenditure
17.   The various budget implementation activities (identified in Chart 1) are summarized in
information flow terms in Chart 3. The process begins with the MOF recording the approved
budget (and any amendments thereto) in the TLS by individual appropriation item or revenue
estimate. Using this as a basis, commitment limits may also be determined, against which
spending units can make commitments (the commitment stage). A funds allocation limit will be
determined periodically on the basis of cash availability, to reflect an assessment of budget
priorities for implementation and entered by the MOF against a suitable aggregation of
appropriation items. When goods and services deliveries have been made, and bills received, the
spending unit acknowledges the fulfillment of the commitment and confirms an obligation to pay
(the verification stage). In the final stage, the spending unit makes (or authorizes) the payment.
The revenue recording would be at a level of aggregation consistent with the estimates
presented in the budget documentation.



Annex I
30                                                Page  6 of  12
Chart 2
Government Financial Management Information System--Data
|         Aggregated        |         Treasury                |   Aggregated
|           Ledger                      Ledger                       Ledger          l
System
YR     -5   -4   -3   -2        |-1        0              1             2          3     l
LI             Budget
Historic Economic         IExecution   Preparation| Forward Estimate
|     Trend Analysis             I      I                     I
|               Financial Control Stages for Expenditure                      1
I                      and Revenue Operations
Expenditure Appropriation | Commitment  | Verification |   Funds                  Payment
Items                                                           I l  |  Allocationl       I
Revenue   f    Revenue              Not               Not              Not        Actual
Items      |   Estimates   j  Applicable I  Applicable   I Applicable | Revenuesi
l   l           I                 I             I     and     I
I   I           I                 I             I Receiptsl
1/ An appropriation is the maximum amount of public funds authorized by the Parliament for expenditure on a
particular purpose from the Consolidated Fund.
2V Commitment is the process of entering into an arrangement that obligates the government to make expenditures of
public funds.
3/ Verification is the process of confirming an obligation to pay.
4/ Funds allocation is the process of aflocating to spending units access to cash amounts for expenditure from the
Consolidated Fund in the time period designated in the allocation advice.



31                                                       Annex  I
Page 7 of 12
Chart 3
Logical Flows--Budget Expenditures
r--------- .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. R
|   MOF      |                                               :                 SUd and|
Treasury |                                                 :             |    Sui
Sector |-- 8..8.
.--------|V                                                               A   A   A
_------            ,              .... 3......
j I   MOF            |         Spending/| .............
| | Budget  |- -          ... >lTechnical g....9..........
81 | | Sector  V-            I  1 1 Ministryl
I         -       21 1          
I                  V   Vi    3V 4 1911 
MOF    fl        I                                      I   I
|| Regional   -     L         >l                        g    I 110
I Treasury |I      I           I                         3      I
I  Office  II   112            g          TLS           I
.,        _              I                              I 
A   A                     >g
6 :5 :11                     I   Central Unit         g
V    : :                       I                        I
j            j      r------>E                           313                  Nat.Bk. ;
*                       g                  | I  U   ITreasury 
Sui              I       -                           1<                |  Single
16 |  Account I
I             I I IlH 
14 V
i                                                     F | Commerciall
I------- ~~~   I |                                15 I   Banks
I            II  4  I    I l'^I>_   
,H,         I l                         '>e'.    Central
|   Sud      l                                         Government |
|I           | 10                                      Creditors*
Legend:
>.... Infonnation flow.
_,   Financial flow.
>    System Registration (SR) or information provided by the system.
*   Suppliers and public employees.
-j ,Entities lincked to the system, and entitled to receive information
L---J  from it.
r--,i Entities not linked to the system.
Sud     Spending unit, direct;
Sui      Spending unit, indirect



32                                          Annex I
Page 8 of 12
Chart 3
Logical Flows--Budget Expenditures (concluded)
1.    SR--Budget appropriation limits per ministry.
2.    SR--Quarterly limits on commitments.
3.    SR--Budget appropriation and commitment limits per spending unit, by quarter.
4.    SR--Actual commitments and verifications of ministries directly linked to the
system.
5.    Actual commitments and verifications of spending units indirectly linked to the
system, in a parallel system.
6.   Information on the budgetary and financial limits to the SU indirectly linked.
7.   Indicative cash limits for subsequent months, specifying the main expenditures
groups.
8.    SR--Financial releases (funds allocations) to the ministries, for each expenditure
group, taking into account the balances in the TSA and in the ministries'
expenditure items.
9.    SR--Financial releases to the SU accounts.
10.   SR--Payment order (PO) to make expenditures, provided that they were
previously committed and verified.
II.   PO to make the Sui expenditures, provided that they were previously committed
and verified.
12.   SR--PO's issued by the Sui.
13.   Daily file of the payments of Ministries and Spending Units.
14.   Credit to commercial banks of the amount authorized for payment to central
government creditors (suppliers, public employees, etc.)
15.   Credit to central government creditors' accounts.
16.   SR--Information on debits/credits made to the TSA.
(SR= System Registration)



Annex I
33                                Page 9 of 12
Information flow
18.   The Budget Sector prepares and registers in the TLS the detailed allocation of budgetary
appropriations by ministry and advises ministries accordingly (flow 1). This process would be
automatically completed within the system once the Budget Preparation module is fully
functioning. This would be done within the limits of the appropriation approved by the
Parliament. The sector may also set and register quarterly limits on commitments by ministry
(flow 2) and by category of spending (at the level of aggregation deemed appropriate).
Ministries would then advise their respective spending units of the budgetary appropriations and
commitment limits and enter the limits in the system).(flow 3).
19.   Registration of actual commitments would be made in the treasury system by the
ministries and spending units directly linked (Sud) to the system (flow 4), or by the spending
units indirectly linked (Sui) in a parallel system through a Regional Treasury Office (RTO) (flow
5). The Sui will be periodically informed by the RTO of their limits (flow 6).
20.  In the verification stage, once all the requirements for a particular obligation have been
met, the spending unit should confirm that the commitment is ready for payment (flow 4, Sud,
and flow 5, Sui).
21.  It should be noted that the process outlined above can be simplified for certain types of
expenditure, either administratively or by automated procedures in the operation of the Treasury.
For example, salary commitments may be entered only once a year on an estimated basis and
adjusted as necessary during the year. The commitment (and verification) of small expenditures
(up to a predetermined limit) could be entered into the system simultaneously with the order for
their payment. However, the system must know in advance which expenditure items allow such
simplification, to prevent misuse.
22.   Commitment control for the current component of the budget can be operated
satisfactorily on a within year basis, primarily as an aid to sound cash management activities.
However, in the case of the capital component and major contracts, where the financial life of
many contracts is more than one year, it is often useful to maintain an accurate record of the
forward expenditure commitment generated by undertaking the project. If this is done, the
Government has a better understanding of the flexibility concerning future expenditure decisions.
This process can be accommodated in the TLS by extending the commitment control stage
against each capital appropriation line item to cover 2 years beyond the budget year. As long
term commitments are entered their financial impact is recorded, for the current budget and
following years.
23.   To encourage advance planning of larger expenditures, it may be appropriate for the
MOF to propose limits on cash availability against spending unit expenditure items. These
would be communicated to ministries by the Treasury Sector (flow 7) in accordance with the
financial plan, specified by category of spending. Ministries would, in turn, advise spending
units (flow 7). The advance knowledge of indicative cash limits, as well as of quarterly
commitments limits, would allow agencies to make the best arrangements (including
development of appropriate payment schedules within contracts) and to set priorities in a



AnnexI
34                                Page 10 of 12
situation of scarce resources, so that any necessary cuts in planned expenditures could be made in
a more orderly and effective way. (The proposed cash limits component of the process (flow 7)
is not shown in the TLS control fields in Chart 2.)
24.   After taking into account both the balance in the TSA and the balance in spending units'
expenditure items in the system, the Treasury Sector would make funds allocations (set cash
limits) to ministries for each category of spending (flow 8), thereby allowing them to distribute
these financial releases (limits) among their respective spending units and enter the limits in the
system (flow 9).
25.   Under ideal circumstances, the allocation of funds would be consistent with the proposed
cash limits communicated to the ministries earlier (flow 7). Quarterly limits would also be
consistent with the quarterly commitment levels and the budget appropriation made on an annual
basis, thereby minimizing the necessity to replan activities. The degree of consistency in the
process would largely depend on the quality of the initial financial planning process and the
revenue collection outcome.
26.   Following the verification for a given expenditure, ministries and spending units directly
linked to the system (Sud) would record the corresponding payment order in the system (flow
10). The system would automatically check that the order falls within the funds allocation limit
set for that Sud by the Treasury Sector. Spending units indirectly linked to the system would
process a payment order through the RTO (flow 11). The latter would check the payment order
issued by SUi and register it in the TLS (flow 12).
Payment arrangements
27.   At the same time as payment orders are registered in the TLS, the banking system must
be advised in order to make the necessary payment (that is to transfer funds from the TSA
account to the creditor). In a fully developed system this can be done automatically. At the end
of each day, the TLS would structure a file with complete information on the creditors and
payments to be made, as advised by ministries and spending units. This file would be sent to the
National Bank, which holds the Government account (flow 13). The National Bank would
transmit the relevant information (and funds) to each commercial bank (flow 14), to credit to the
appropriate account (flow 15), and debit the TSA. The National Bank would confirm to the TLS
the debits in the Government account (flow 16).
28.   One category of payment is worthy of special mention--namely Civil Service salaries. In
theory each payment of each civil servant could be treated as a discrete payment and processed in
the manner already described. However, given the number of individual payments involved, the
similar structure of each payment, the regular occurrence of payments, and the additional
personnel issues which need to be considered, it is preferable to develop a separate sub-system for
processing salary payments-usually referred to a payroll system-in a manner compatible with the
overall expenditure process.



Annex I
35                                Page 11 of 12
Computerization aspects
29.   Computerization of such a budget implementation system through a centrally operated
TLS needs to take into account the following factors:
The accounting structure of the TLS should directly reflect the structure of the
central government budget appropriation items approved by the Parliament. That
is, there should be a common database and a one-to-one relationship. It should
contain one item for each head of expenditure (appropriation) in the annual
Budget Law, each head of receipt, and each refund of receipts;
*     In many situations, the budget appropriation items will not be detailed enough for
day-to-day operations and management, and ministries (or spending units) may
wish to expand the central chart of accounts to allow proper expenditure control
and transaction processing at a more detailed level. This can be achieved in one
of two ways. First, the central TLS chart of accounts can be expanded to
accommodate ministry and spending unit accounting requirements, with all
transactions carried out as described above. Alternatively, ministries may utilize
their own accounting (ledger) system, which can be connected to the TLS. This
would allow much of the detailed transaction processing to take place on the
ministry system, with only aggregate data consistent with the budget
appropriation structure transmitted to the TLS; and
e     The level of existing (or proposed) computerization at the ministries and spending
units and the associated communication systems will determine the capability of
units to be directly or indirectly linked to the central TLS. This aspect must be
addressed early in the system development process.
Incorporating control processes in the system
30.   Control and/or certification of the actions of those implementing expenditure proposals
and making payments is a recognized attribute of any public expenditure management system.
The Attachment to this paper provides an outline of a control model which would be suitable for
implementation in the context of a computerized Financial Ledger System described here. Once
computerized, the TLS is clearly capable of undertaking many of the routine arithmetic checks
necessary in the process, and can be utilized to 'intervene' at critical points, such as to ensure
payments from the Government's account do not exceed budget appropriations, or some other
determined limit, at the line item level. However, there still remains a requirement to confirm
that certain actions have been performed properly, before any data are registered in the system.
Control Process in Public Expenditure Management
31.   The commitment to expend public money should be governed by an explicit set of rules
and procedures to ensure that expenditures correspond to the amounts and purposes decided in
the budget--and of course to prevent fraud and abuse. Included in this set of procedures is a
requirement that a person independent from the preparation stages of the procurement/payment



Annex I
36                                  Page 12 of 12
process confirm that correct actions have been taken. This confirmation process should be
efficient and contain no redundant steps. In the commitment/payment/reporting process three
clear stages can be identified:
a.    Before the commitment is made (financial control--commitment stage):
At this stage, it is necessary to confirm:
that the proposal to spend money has been approved by an authorized person;
that the budget has appropriated money for the purpose and sufficient money
remains available in the proper appropriation category;
that the expenditure is proposed under the correct category.
b.    Before payment is made (accounting control--verification stage):
Before money is withdrawn from the TSA it is necessary to confirm that:
a valid obligation exists (established after the commitment stage);
an authorized person has certified that the service has been performed as
expected;
the invoice or other document requesting payment is correct and suitable for
payment; and
the creditor is correctly identified.
32.   Other requirements, such as confirmation that staff recruitment intentions are within
approved limits, or that other specific administrative or special instructions have been complied
with, may also be added to the control process at the first stage, or may be left to the
responsibility of the spending agency concerned.
c.    After final payment is made (audit):
In the context of certifying the financial reports relating to the financial year in question,
the Court of Audit would:
*     examine and scrutinize any or all expenditures or transactions to the extent it
chooses; and
*     report any irregularities, in a manner and to whom it considers appropriate.
33.   To protect against the risk of major fraud or abuse, in addition to application of the
procurement regulations in force, a special committee can be established to review, before
commitment, contracts of a value greater than a value set in law or regulation.



37
Annex II
Page I of 2
Public Finance Management Project
Schedule of Technical Assistance
Details of technical assistance to be provided are described in the table below:
Type of Consultants             Type of services to be provided
1.     Preparation and Desien Phase
Budget preparation
Short Term Experts:                       (i) Develop improved methods and guidelines for budget preparation, macroeconomic
forecasting and preparation of forward estimates; (ii) Review the existing budget coding
-Budget preparation, forecasting and forward   structures and design a revised structure and chart of accounts conforming with the GFS
estimates                                  classification methodology; (iii) Develop a functional design of systems, processes and
-Budget and program code structure         procedures for Budget Preparation.
payment and expenditure control, cash
management and banking                     Treasury Operations
-Regulatory framework                      Build on prior work done by the Govemment of Hungary and the IMF and develop the
-Public debt management system and debt    functional design of systems, processes and procedures for expenditure control and
operations                                treasury operations. Develop Cash Management Procedures
Cash Management
Debt Management
Develop improved methods and guidelines and the functional requirements for Debt
Management.
Information Systems Consultants            Develop technical systems design for the budget preparation, the treasury and Debt
Management systems.
Develop the technology architecture for implementing the budget preparation, debt
management and the treasury systems and specify the H/W, S/W and communications
design, systems software and application S/W environment (UNIX, DBMS & Application
development tools)
Identify application software for the Treasury system and determine customization
requirements and specify the systems and program design for the Budget preparation and
Debt Management systems.
Specify the hardware and software requirements and prepare bidding documents in
accordance with World bank Procurement Guidelines and format.
PFM-IS Network
During the design phase, review current and planned Infofmation Systems Projects in the
PFM area and develop a framework that provides an overview of the systems network
required to support PFM and specifies where current/ planned efforts fit in. Define an
overall strategy and a medium term work plan listing actions that need to be taken to
ensure that the different elements of the PFM IS network can interface seamlessly and
that the Govemment obtains the anticipated payoff from its considerable investments in
Information Systems in the PFM area.



38
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
2.        Imnlementation Pbase
Information Systems Consultants            Budget Preparation. Treasury Operations and Debt Management Components
-Project management and systems integration;
-Assist the Government in the procurement of hardware and software;
-Supervise installation and testing of H/W and S/W;
-Supervise the custom development of application software for budget preparation and
debt management by a local software house;
-Assist in the acquisition, installation and testing of S/W for the treasury system
-Develop operational guidelines, security and disaster recovery procedures
-Develop procedures and check list for replicating systems at subsequent sites
-Develop a plan for setting up the Informatics capability for the Treasury /MOF and
specify organization structure and training/ skills requirements for this facility
PFM, IS, EDI and Standards Specialists     PFM-IS Network:
contracted to study interface/ standards/    PFM, IS and standards specialists to be contracted for the project would undertake the
communications issues related to the PFM -  activities
Network                                    listed in the work plan developed under the design phase to ensure that the different elemen
of the
PFM network interface seamlessly.
Specific tasks would include:
(a)      Definition of policies, procedures and standards that need to be specified for Dat
administration and Systems development and management for all elements of the PFM
systems
network, and the appropriate organizational framework to implement these policies,
procedures and standards.
(b)      Identification, design and implementation of those elements of the data architect
that would need to be maintained centrally for use by all systems modules across the netwo
and the procedures and responsibilities for the maintenance of these common / reference
bases.
(c)      Researching the nature of the interfaces that the various systems modules would
need to
have with other elements of the PFM Information Systems Network for Fiscal Management.
(d)      Definition of the technology standards that would need to be adhered across the
systems network so as to ensure systems compatibility and ease of maintenance;
(e)      Investigation of the feasibility of using Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) as a
possible method of exchanging information between systems elements, in particular for
exchange of
information on budget planning, appropriation modification, expenditures, verifications, etc
among CBls and the MOF/ Treasury.-
Training Specialists                       -Develop a training strategy and plans for GFMIS implementation country wide
-Develop end user manuals and training materials and documentation
-Train end users at Pilot sites
-Design and specify systems training facilities for the Treasury/MOF
Project Administration Support
Procurement, disbursement & accounting     To assist Government with Bank procedures
specialists
Translators and interpreters               To assist Project Teams



39
Annex m
Page 1 of 2
Public Finance Management Project
Schedule of Hardware/ Software and Training
Details of computer hardware, software, related equipment and training to be provided are
summarized below:
Item                                                    Remarks
Hardware, Systems Software and Application Development
Tools, DBMS's etc.
Equipment (UNIX servers, work stations, networks, printers,  Each office would receive an appropriately sized
UPS, site preparation), systems software and application  UNIX server, a LAN network, an RDBMS and
development tools for the 20 regional treasury offices  application development tools, laser and line
printers and windows based work stations and
modem connections to enable connecting with the
central office.
Equipment upgrades as required for central facilities at the  As specified by project consultants
Treasury Headquarters. (UNIX servers, work stations,
networks, printers, UPS, site preparation), systems software
and application development tools
Equipment (as above) and systems software for the
implementation of the Debt Management Systems
Equipment and Systems Software for Budget Preparation   Enhancements and additions to existing equipment
System.                                                and software as identified by project consultants
Standard H/W and Systems Software for the Public Sector  Includes standard software for the implementation
Financial Information Office                           of policies procedures and standards identified by
project consultants, e.g. CASE tools, DA standards,
systems development methodologies, etc.; and
Office automation equipment and software.
Application Software
Application software for treasury system at center, regional  This includes costs for package software purchase
units, and spending units ( budgetary chapters and CBI's) and   and customization as identified by project
customization as may be necessary.                     consultants. In case package software is not
available the application S/W would be custom
developed.
Enhancements to the Application Software for Budget
Preparation System to enable integration with the Treasury
System
Application software for debt management system to manage
issue and recording of domestic debt instruments
Miscellaneous
Office Equipment and Training facilities for Treasury
Training
Training for Treasury, Budget and Agency Staff          To enable staff to participate in training courses in
Budgeting, Treasury operations, accounting, and
debt management in the country and abroad.
Training for Technical Staff                           To enable staff to participate in training courses in
the country and abroad. Possible areas of training
include: Systems Analysis and Development,
UNIX, RDBMS, Application development Tools,
Networks Project Management, End User Support.
Study Tours and short training and orientation trips   To enable GOH officials to share and benefit from
the experiences of other govemments in the areas
of public financial management.



40
Annex m1
Page 2 of 2
Training
1.    The training requirements for the project are divided into several areas:
(a)   training in principles, concepts and methodologies of the subject areas covered by the
project, namely, budget preparation, treasury operations and debt management;
(b)    senior level management training orientation in the use of computer-based financial
management information systems;
(c)    end user training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up under
the project;
(d)   technical training in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing and
implementing the information systems under the project, e.g., the chosen RDBMS, the
operating system-UNIX, application development and Computer Aided Software
Engineering (CASE) tools, etc.;
(e)    more general training related to the design and development of information systems,
implementation of formal systems development methodologies and data administration
standards; development of policies, procedures and standards for the management of a
government wide network of information systems; and
(f)   training in Electronic Data Processing (EDP) project management and the provision of
end user support to staff who will use the systems.
2.    The project would provide financing for:
(a)   the development of an overall training strategy to train users in the implementation of
the systems country wide; the design and specification of in-house training facilities
and/or identification of suitable training courses within the country and abroad; the
development/acquisition of training materials, technical documentation and end user
manuals;
(b)   training courses to be arranged at site, or in local / foreign institutes to cover these areas.
Staff to be trained under the project would include the MOF/ Agency and Treasury staff
covered by the project and technical staff of the MOF/Treasury who will be involved in
the development and implementation of the systems;
(c)   study assignments for government officials in the budget, treasury and the debt
management areas to enable them to benefit from the experiences of other Governments
in these areas. This would include financing of courses/discussion trips on specific
topics by experts from these governments/agencies to Hungary; and
(d)    visits from experts on the development and implementation of policies, procedures and
standards for a govemment wide network of information systems.



41
Annex IV
Page 1 of 10
Public Finance Management Project
Project Cost and Financing Tables
Table 1: Financing Plan by Financier and Expenditures
Total Cost, including contingencies, taxes and duties
(US$ 000)
Expenditure             IBRD         Govt.        Total       Foreign        Local         Duties
Type                                                         Exchange      (excluding        and
taxes)        Taxes
Equipment
Standard H/W and S/W     3,814.9       1,907.4     5,722.3       3,814.9                      1,907.4
Application S/W           1,757.8       227.3      1,985.2        1985.2 _
Sub Total                 5,572.7     2,134.8      7,707.5       5,800.1          _           1,907.4
Civil Works
Site Preparation               -         86.4         86.4 __      _               86.4
Consulting Services       1,981.1       223.0      2,204.0         345.6        1,858.4
Training/ Study Tours      194.6        111.7        306.4         306.4
Total    Investment       7,748.4     2,555.9     10,304.3       6,452.1        1,944.8       1,907.4
Costs
Recurrent Costs
Equipment Operations
and Maintenance
H/W,  S/W,  Maint./                     229.3        229.3         229.3
License Fees
Telecommunications                       61.2         61.2                        61.2
Costs
Utilities, Postage and                   42.5         42.5                        42.5
Supplies
Miscellaneous                            58.4         58.4             -           58.4
Printing
Total                                   391.4        391.4         229.3          162.1
Total Project Costs       7,748.4     2,947.3     10,695.7       6,681.4        2,106.8       1,907.4



42
Annex lV
Page 2 of 10
Table 2: Total Cost by Component and Expenditure
Total Cost, including, contingencies, taxes and duties
(US$ 000)
Component               Budget      Treasury       Debt       PFM-IS       Project     Totals
Preparatio   Operations  Managemen   Network         Admin.
n                         t                     Support
Expenditure Type
Equipment
Standard H/W and S/W        419.0      3,418.7        677.5     1,207.1                 5,722.3
Application Software        257.6        576.8        617.1       533.6                 1,985.2
Sub Total                   676.6      3,995.5      1,294.6      1,740.0                7,707.5
Civil Works
Site Preparation                                       86.4                                86.4
Consulting Services         338.0        550.2        358.6       578.2        379.0   2,204.0
Training Study Tours         84.9                     111.7       109.8                   306.4
Sub Total                   422.8        550.2        470.3       688.0        379.0   2,510.4
Total    Investment       1,099.5      4,545.8      1,851.3     2,428.8        379.0   10,304.3
Costs
Recurrent Costs
Equipment
Operations      and
Maintenance Costs
H/W,            S/W                                                            229.3      229.3
Maintenance/License
Fees
Telecommunications                                                              61.2       61.2
Costs
Utilities Postage  and                                                          42.5       42.5
Supplies
Miscellaneous                                                      58.4                    58.4
Printing
Total Recurrent Costs                                              58.4        333.0      391.4
Total Project costs       1,099.5      4,545.8      1,851.3     2,487.1        712.1   10,695.7
o/w taxes                   139.7      1,139.6        225.8       402.4            -    1,907.4
o/w foreign exchange        725.6      2,856.0      1,310.2      1,560.3       229.3    6,681.4



Hungary
Public Finance Management ProjeZt
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Project
Budget    Treasury      Debt      PFM-1S  Management
Preparation  Operations Management Network      Unit       Total
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                             -
A. Technical Assistance
Experts                                            367.0      550.2      414.4      633.1      379.0    2,343.8           _ .
Study Tours                                         55.9          -       55.9       54.9          -       166.6          O 
Subtotal Technical Assistance                       422.8       550.2      470.3      688.0      379.0    2,510.4
B. Equipment                                                                                                                3o,
Standard HW&SW                                    419.0      3,418.7     677.5    1,207.1          -     5,722.3          .3 m         wJ
Applications and Enhancements                      257.6      576.8      617.1      533.6          -     1,985.2
Subtotal Equipment                                  676.6      3,995.5    1,294.6    1,740.7         -     7,707.5
C. Civil Works
Site Preparation                                       -          -        86.4                             86.4
Total Investrnent Costs                              1,099.5    4,545.8     1,851.3    2,428.8      379.0    10,304.3
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Malntenance and Licenses                              -                                -       229.3      229.3
B. Communicaton and Facilities Services                       -                -       58.4       103.7      162.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                      -          -          -       58.4       333.0      391.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  1,099.5    4,545.8    1,851.3    2,487.1      712.1    10,695.7
Taxes                                                139.7     1,139.6     225.8      402.4          -      1,907.4
Foreign Exchange                                    725.6    2,856.0      1,310.2    1,560.3     229.3    6,681.4



Hungary
Public Finance Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
All Detailed Tables (USS '000)
Project                  Physical
Budget    Treasury       Debt      PFM-IS  Management                Contingencies
Preparation  Operations Management Network       Unit        Total      %    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Experts                                               316.7       439.9      355.4      542.5       316.7     1,971.3     5.0    98.6
Study Tours                                            50.5           -       50.5       50.5           -       151.5     5.0      7.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance                           367.2       439.9      405.9      593.0       316.7     2,122.8     5.0   106.1
B. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                        378.8     3,030.0      606.0    1,060.5           -     5,075.3     5.0   253.8
Applications and Enhancements                         232.3       505.0      545.4      474.7           -     1,757.4     5.0    87.9
Subtotal Equipment                                      611.1     3,535.0     1,151.4    1,535.2          -     6,832.7     5.0   341.6
C. Civil Works
Site Preparation                                          -          -        73.3                      -        73.3     5.0      3.7
Total Investment Costs                                    978.3     3,974.9     1,630.6    2,128.2      316.7     9,028.7     5.0   451.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and Licenses                                 -           -          -          -       202.0       202.0     5.0    10.1
B. Communication and Facilities Services                    -          -           -       48.9        83.1       132.0     5.0      6.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                         -           -          -       48.9       285.1       334.0     5.0    16.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      978.3     3,974.9     1,630.6    2,177.1      601.8     9,362.7     5.0   468.1
Physical Contingencies                                   48.9       198.7       81.5      108.9        30.1       468.1       -        -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                                86.0       320.4      129.9      204.4       172.0       912.7       -
Foreign                                              36.3       204.7       84.2      107.4        17.2       449.9       -
Subtotal Inflation                                    122.3       525.1      214.2      311.8       189.2     1,362.7       -
Devaluation                                           -50.1     -153.0       -75.0    .110.7       -109.1     -497.8
Subtotal Price Contingencles                             72.3      372.1       139.2      201.1        80.2       864.9     4.8    41.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      1,099.5    4,545.8     1,851.3    2,487.1      712.1    10,695.7     4.8   509.3
Taxes                                                   139.7     1,139.8      225.8      402.4           .     1,907.4     4.8    90.8           10
Foreign Exchange                                        725.6     2,856.0     1,310.2    1,560.3      229.3     6,681.4     4.8   318.2           uq
_.-



Hungary
Public Finance Management Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Base Cost
1996     1997      1 998      1999     2000      Total
Budget Preparation                       197.3     400.4     380.6          -               978.3
Treasury Operatons                          -      855.3    1,938.6    1,181.1      -     3,974.9
Debt Management                          116.2     607.2     553.8      353.5       -     1,630.6
PFM-IS Network                           141.7     565.3     885.2      584.8       -     2,177.1
Project Management Unit                  78.2      177.6     186.4      159.7       -       601.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                       533.4   2,605.7    3,944.5    2,279.1      -     9,362.7
Physlcal Contingencies                   26.7      130.3      197.2     114.0       -       468.1
Price ConUngencies
Inflation
Local                                 35.1     259.9     398.9      218.8       -       912.7
Foreign                               6.5       78.9     198.1      166.4       -       449.9
Subtotal Inflation                      41.6     338.7     597.1      385.3       -     1,362.7
Devaluation                           -19.3    -156.8    -215.1    -106.6                -497.8
Subtotal Price Contingencies             22.3      181.9     382.0      278.7       -       864.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                        582.4   2,917.9   4,523.7    2,671.7            10,695.7
Taxes                                     54.2     444.6     883.0      525.5             1,907.4
Foreign Exchange                        295.0    1,715.2    2,861.0    1,810.2            6,681.4
-  =-  -   _. _  .      .            --       -     -    -  -    _          Pt~~~~~~~~3Q 
wa ;
<n az



Hungary
Public Finance Management Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1998       1999     2000     Total
Budget Preparation           214.2      444.4     440.9         -       -      1,099.5
Treasury Operations              -      948.9   2,207.1    1,389.7            4,545.8
Debt Management              124.7      679.7     638.1     408.8       -      1,851.3
PFM-IS Network               156.0      639.5    1,011.3    680.4       -     2,487.1
Project Management Unit       87.6      205.3     226.3     192.8               712.1
Total PROJECT COSTS            582.4   2,917.9    4,523.7   2,671.7       -    10,695.7
asa



Hungary
Public Finance Management Project
Project Components by Year - lnvestmentlRecurrent Costs
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997       1998       1999     2000      Total
Budget Preparation
Investment Costs                      214.2     444.4      440.9          -       -      1,099.5
Subtotal Budget Preparation             214.2     444.4      440.9          -        -     1,099.5
Treasury Operations
Investment Costs                          -     948.9    2,207.1    1,389.7       -      4,545.8
Subtotal Treasury Operations                -     948.9    2,207.1    1,389.7        -     4,545.8
Debt Management
Investment Costs                      124.7     679.7      638.1      408.8        -     1,851.3
Subtotal Debt Management                124.7     679.7      638.1      408.8        -     1,851.3
PFM-IS Network
Investment Costs                      145.0     616.4      987.0      680.4        -     2,428.8
Recurrent Costs                        10.9      23.0       24.4          -        -       58.4
Subtotal PFM-IS Network                 156.0     639.5    1,011.3      680.4        -     2,487.1
Project Management Unit
Investment Costs                       87.6     126.7      126.7       38.0        -      379.0
Recurrent Costs                          -       78.6       99.6      154.8       -       333.0
Subtotal Project Management Unit         87.6     205.3      226.3      192.8       -       712.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                     582.4    2,917.9    4,523.7    2,671.7       -    10,695.7
Total Investment Costs                571.5    2,816.2    4,399.7    2,516.9       -    10,304.3
Total RecurrentCosts                   10.9     101.7      124.0      154.8        -      391.4
OQw



Hungary
Public Finance Managemnent Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
All Detailed Tables (USS '000)
Base Cost                          Foreign Exchange
1996     1997      1998       1999     2000      Total      %      Amount
I.nvestmont Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Experts                                         296.4      751.0     694.1      229.7       -     1,971.3    22.3     440.4
Study Tours                                      45.5       65.7      40.4         -        -       151.5   100.0     151.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     341.9      816.7     734.5      229.7       -     2,122.8    27.9     591.9
B. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                  151.5    1,212.0   2,348.3    1,363.5       -     5,075.3    66.7   3,383.5
Applications and Enhancements                    30.3      414.1     757.5      555.5       -     1,757.4   100.0   1,757.4
Subtotal Equipment                                181.8    1,626.1    3,105.8    1,919.0      -     6,832.7    75.2   5,140.9
C. Civil Works
Site Preparation                                    -       73.3         -         -        -       73.3        ,                                     4
Total Investment Costs                              523.7   2,516.1    3,840.2   2,148.7        -     9,028.7    63.5   5,732.8                           o
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and Licenses                           -       50.5      50.5      101.0       -       202.0   100.0     202.0
B. Conmnunicatin and Facilities Services            9.8       39.1      53.8       29.3       -       132.0       -         -
Total Recurrent Costs                                 9.8       89.6     104.3      130.3       -      334.0    60.5      202.0
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                 533.4   2,605.7   3,944.5   2,279.1         -     9,362.7    63.4   5,934.8
Physical Contingencies                             26.7      130.3     197.2      114.0              468.1    63.4      296.7
Price Contingencies
Inflaton
Local                                          35.1      259.9     398.9      218.8              912.7        -
Foreign                                         6.5       78.9     198.1      166.4              449.9   100.0      449.9
Subtotal Inflatlon                               41.6      338.7     597.1      385.3       .     1,362.7    33.0     449.9
Devaluation                                      -19.3    *156.8    -215.1    -106.6        -      497.8        -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                       22.3      181.9     382.0      278.7              864.9    52.0      449.9
| TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                 582.4    2,917.9   4,523.7   2,671.7             10,695.7    62.5    6,681.4
Taxes                                               64.2     444.6     883.0      625.5       .     1,907.4                 .
Foreign Exchange                                  295.0    1,715.2   2,861.0   1,810.2        .     6,681.4
00 C
o 



Hungary
Public Finance Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
All Detailed Tables (US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1998       1999     2000      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Experts                                       327.5      867.9     850.5      297.9       -     2,343.8
Study Tours                                    48.8       72.3      45.6         -        -       166.6
Subtotal Technical Assistance                   376.3      940.1     896.1      297.9       -     2,510.4
B. Equipment
Standard HW&SW                                162.7    1,333.9   2,649.1    1,576.6       -     5,722.3
Appliations and Enhancements                    32.5     455.8     854.5      642.3       -     1,985.2
Subtotal Equipment                              195.2    1,789.7   3,503.6    2,219.0       -     7,707.5
C. Civil Works
Site Preparaton                                   -       86.4         -          -       -        86.4
Total Investmnent Costs                           571.5   2,816.2   4,399.7    2,516.9        -    10,304.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance and Licenses                         -       55.8      57.0      116.8               229.3
B. Communicaton and Facilities Services          10.9       46.1      67.0       38.0       -       162.1
Total Recurrent Costs                               10.9     101.7     124.0      154.8       -       391.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                               582.4   2,917.9   4,523.7    2,671.7        -    10,695.7



Phy
cot.
r_Im
8.  . Cost                     Phy lc tCedhgts                     Pd.CoC    l.                             Total Md. Coo.               11.6 Comd   PalO
Local                                 Local                             Local                                 Local                           .Me.   COo an
/ExcL    Dudes &              For.   (Eade   DOtl &             For.   (Exsc   OWks 6&                         ExcL    Dull9 6               ConL on   Physl
Fo.Ex.ch.   Taxes)    Taxes      Total    Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes    Total   Exch.  Taxs)   Taxes    Total   For. EXeLc    Taoes)  T__ sx         TOt    9as,. Cosat   Coa,
L hv"av.t.M Codst
A. Tcealal AsstZes
EVOIA                                           440.4   1.5309                1,971.3    22.0    76.5             966    23.0   250.9          -   273.9      405.4   1,650.4                2,343.6    2,2322    111.6                en
a* dToax,                                       151.5         -                151.5     7.0       -         -     7.6      76        -        -     7.6       1686..                         108.0      1SO.?       7.9               0D
toTeltkaAssiance                                  ss1s    1,530.9              2,122.     29.6    765         I-   a        x306 250.9              21i s       es20o  T.                  3              219.9
1. Eqdpma
Sld HISW                                       3,33t3.5       -   1,691.8   5,075.3   1692                84.0   253.8   262.2             131.1   3933      3.114.2         .   1,9074      5722.3    5.449.8    272.5
Appcaonasd wEawca t                            1,757.4         -         -   1,757.4    87 9                 .     7.9   130.9        -        -   139.9    10e05.2          -         *     1.962      1,660.6     94.5
SahtosllEqatpan.n                                5,140.9        -   1,691.9    6,632.7  257.0               646       341.6   402.1     -    131.1   533.2    5600.1 .I107.4                  77707.5    7340.      367.0
mePpwalo                                            .       73.3                73.3              37         -     3.7              9.4              9.4                  e8.4                 8o.4       *2.3       4.1
Tomt hsv.at Codu                                   5,7329    1,4.2  1691.8    926?   2836             0         46 4514  432             f  131.   B2            6.452.1  iti44       1,07.4 10,304.        ,0136    40.7
L Rocmelt Comb
A,Msnd Uusnuece    Lkcns                          202.0                    -     202.0    10.1        -        -    10.1    17.2                       1 -    17.2  229.3      -                220.3       210.4     10.9
a. Caar606 xnacdFitiaesSorvScos                       -     1320           -     132.0       .     6.6       -       66        -    235          -    23.5                 162.1         -      162.1      154.3       7.7
TolbRacwntCoUa                                      2o20       1320          -    3340      10.1      68         ,       7     72    23 -               40.7       2293      -162.1               391.4      3728       10.6
Total                                              S,934t,   1736.2   1,691.8   9,382.7   26.7    8e 8             .    468.1   449.9  23      13t11iT           6,661.4   2,106.6   1,007.4   10.69.7   10,186.4    609.3
0 3
a



51
Annex V
Page 1 of 2
Public Finance Management Project
Project Administration Activities to be performed by the MOF/ Treasury
-     Coordinate day-to-day implementation of tasks under the project by the various
implementing teams and agencies, as specified in the Project Technical Annex (TA).
-     Organize monthly meetings with the various project component teams, to review
progress on project implementation.  Organize and circulate agenda and other
communications for the meetings. Record the minutes of these meetings. Convey the
minutes in English, to the World Bank.
-     Ensure that the Project Teams and evaluation committees have the necessary
knowledge and expertise to conduct their work, including, for example to draft technical
specifications and evaluate technical bid proposals. Procure necessary ad hoc TA to
support these project groups. Also help organize study tours for selected group members
as appropriate.
Project Monitoring / Administration Responsibilities to be Performed by the NBH
The tasks to be performed by the NBH for the project would include:
-     In accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines: Consolidate requests
for procurement of goods and services. Prepare, in conjunction with project teams,
procurement documents (e.g., invitations to bid, standard bid documents, technical
specifications, bid clarification, bid evaluation reports, etc.).  Obtain timely MOF
approval for procurement documents. Obtain timely World Bank no-objections for
procurement documents. In conjunction with the project teams, organize and help
manage bidder conferences. In due time for bid evaluations, organize and support
evaluation committees (as appropriate, economize evaluation efforts by identifying
standing members to serve on various evaluation committees under the project). Chair
evaluation committees. Ensure proper documentation of committees' deliberations and
findings. Ensure timely MOF approval of evaluation committees' recommendations and
of prospective contracts. As delegated by the MOF, sign contracts. Coordinate and
manage contract awards. Track progress of procurement activities against the plans set
forth in the Technical Annex. Highlight variations in progress, record reasons and
identify remedial actions.
-     Manage disbursement processes. In conjunction with the MOF and the National
Bank of Hungary, establish and manage the project Special Account (including the
preparation of account statements). Process loan disbursement applications. Verify
disbursement information in signed contracts against Loan Agreement (the disbursement
schedule and disbursement letter). Prepare withdrawal applications and obtain



52
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
authorizing signature from MOF. Arrange payments for against statement of expenses
(SOEs). Track disbursements of the Bank loan and government funds. Monitor project
expenditures and costs (local and foreign).
-     Prepare and distribute consolidated, periodic reports of the project teams and
consultants to the relevant government and other participating institutions, including the
semi-annual and annual reports to the World Bank, reflecting: (i) the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for
actions; and (ii) current costs of each project component and estimated costs of
completion.
-     As required, take actions to expedite project activities, including, but not
restricted to, decision-making and document processing by the relevant governmental
agencies. Monitor official documents and contracts as they pass through the approval
processes.
-     In a timely fashion, prepare and submit to relevant government institutions and
the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditure and accounts.
-     Ensure accurate and timely compilation of project indicators by each
implementation team.
-     iFacilitate the preparation of the World Bank standard Implementation Completion
Report (ICR).
-     Carefully manage the records and official documents of the project.



Annex VI
Hungary - Public Finance Management Project
Figure 2. Project Implementation Arrangements
Implementing Agencies
MOFrTreasury
Project Counterpart
State Deputy Secretary, MOF
National Bank of Hungary
Project Coordinadon Reporting,
Procurement. Disbursement /Accountlng
__    _ _ _      -_    _L                           .___ __             _   _ _
Budget Preparation             Treasury  perations              Debt Management                  PFM-IS Network
Team Leader                    Team Leader                     Team Leader                     Team Leader
MOF                           Treasury                        Treasury                |MOF|
I   ..  |  o  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



54
Annex VI
Page 2 of 4
Public Finance Management Project
Project Implementation Arrangements, including Procurement and Disbursements
Table 1: Summary of Major Procurement Packages for Goods
(Costs excluding taxes and duties)
Component/             Estimated   Procurement  Start Doc.  Invitation    Award       Contract
Package                  Cost        Method    Preparation                Contract   Completion
US$ million                             .
Budget Preparation
Standard H/W, SIW           0.150           IS         9/96       10/96        1/97        12/97
Application S/W             0.257           is         7/96       12/96        2/97        12/97
Treasury Operations
Standard H/W, S/W            0.30           IS         7/96        8/96        9/96        10/96
1.98         ICB          7/96       7/96        9/96        12/97
Application S/W              0.58          LIB         9/96        3/97        6/97         6/98
Debt Management 
Standard H/W, S/W           0.451          ICB        10/96        1/97        6/97         6/98
Application S/W             0.617          LIB        10/96        3/97        6/97         6/98
PFM IS-Network
Standard H/W, S/W           0.804          ICB        10/97       11/97        2/98        12/98
Application Software        0.306          LIB        10/97       11/97        2/98        12/98
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
LIB = Limited International Bidding
IS = International Shopping



55
Annex VI
Page 3 of 4
Table 2: Summary of Procurement Packages for Technical Assistance
Component             Est. Cost    Procurement  Start Tender  Invitation   Award     Contract
Package               US$ million  Method        Preparation              Contract  Completion
Budget Preparation
Budgeting Experts     0.059       Individuals                             10/96       12/97
IT & Training Experts   0.278     SL (Firms)    8/96           9/96        10/96      12/97
Treasury Operations
IT & Training Experts   0.550     SL(Firms)      8/96          9/96        12/96      12/98
Debt Management
Debt    Management 0.039          Individuals                              10196      12/97
Experts
IT & Training Experts   0.317     SL(Firms)      8/96          9/96        10/96      12/98
PFM-IS Network
Manager, PFM Experts, 0.521       SL             8/96          9/96       10/96      12/98
EDI  Specialists,  IS             (Firms)
Consultants, Standards
Specialists
Project
Administration
Support
Procurement/          0.213       SL             8/96          9/96       10/96      12/99
Disbursement/                     (Firms)
Accounting Specialists
SL = Shortlist



56
Annex VI
Page 4 of 4
Table 3: Disbursements by Semesters
(Total Project Costs)
(US$'000)
Semester         IBRD          Costs to be     Cash Flow      Cumulative
Financing       financed                       Cash Flow
1                     -           291.2          -291.2          -291.2
2                 214.9           291.2           -76.3          -367.5
3                 214.9          1,458.9        -1,244.0        -1,611.5
4                1,028.3         1,458.9         -430.7         -2,042.2
5                1,028.3         2,261.9        -1,233.6        -3,275.8
6                1,660.2         2,261.9         -601.6         -3,877.4
7                1,660.2         1,335.8          324.4         -3,553.0
8                 970.8          1,335.8         -365.1         -3,918.1
9                 970.8               -           970.8         -2,947.3
Total              7,748.4        10,695.7        -2,947.3        -2,947.3



Annex VII
Public Finance Management Project
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Component               Budget preparation
Objectives              Introduce improved methods, guidelines, procedures and systems for budget preparation, macro economic forecasting and preparation of
forward estimates.
Input Indicators        Process Indicators                             Output Indicators                              Impact Indicators
Consultancy Services    Appointment of Consultants;                    Improved methods and guidelines for budget     Revised methods and
financed by the PHRD                                                   preparation, macroeconomic forecasting and     guidelines for budget
and the project in various   Design of improved methods and guidelines for  preparation of forward estimates completed;  preparation macro-
aspects of Treasury     budget preparation, macroeconomic forecasting and                                             economic forecasting and
Operations, Cash        preparation of forward estimates;              Revised structure and Chart of accounts conforming   preparation of forward
Management, Information                                                with GFS and EU classification methodologies   estimates adopted;
systems design and      Revision of budget classification structure and chart  completed;
development.            of accounts to conform with GFS and EU                                                        Revised budgetary code
classification methodologies;                  Full functional design of systems, processes and  structure effective for all  <
procedures for budget preparation, completed;  Government expenditure
Hardware, Systems       Functional design of systems, processes and                                                   and revenue;
Software and Application   procedures for budget preparation;          Detailed regulations and operating manuals
Software required for the                                              completed;                                     Budget for FY 1998
Budget Preparation      Development of detailed regulations and operating                                             prepared according to this
system                  manuals;                                       Technical design of Budget preparation system  structure;
completed;
Development of Technical design of Budget                                                    Functional and economic
preparation system;                            Training strategy, plan and materials for revised  analyses of budget
Budget preparation system completed.          available from the new
Development of training strategy, plan and training                                          system;
materials for the implementation of the revised  Adequate numbers of staff trained in GFS
budget preparation system.                    methodology;
Training of staff and implementation of systems.  H/W, S/W delivered, installed and tested;
Application S/W tested for the following minimum                            Q
Acquisition of H/W, and S/W and Development of   functionality: Preparing budget estimates and
application software                          maintaining budget appropriation data.                                          M
0
__________________Delivery, installation and testing of HIW and S/W;  IImproved systems Implemented.___________



Component               Treasury Operation
Objectives              Ensure smooth and timely execution of the budget, while minimizing the cost of Government financing through the establishment of
improved Treasury operations and cash management processes, procedures and systems.
Input Indicators        Process Indicators                            Output Indicators                             Impact Indicators
Consultancy Services    Engagement of Consultants;                    Full functional design of systems, processes and  New management
financed by the PHRD                                                  procedures Treasury Operations completed and  processes for budget
and the project in various  Enhancement and migration of the current interim   implemented;                         execution ( Cash
aspects of Treasury    treasury application system to a more robust form                                            allocation, commitment,
Operations and Cash     incorporating the full functional design of a  Detailed regulations and operating manuals   payment processing and
Management,            treasury system;                               completed and in use;                         receipts) in place and
Information Systems                                                                                                 functioning;
Design and              Upgrading the H/W and Systems Software at     Technical design of Treasury Operations system
Development.            regional treasury units to a UNIX platform and  completed and implemented;                  Improved expenditure
implementation of the full Treasury system at these                                        management information
sites;                                       Adequate numbers of staff trained in the use of the   and improved controls of
Hardware, Systems                                                     new Treasury Operations Systems;              expenditures throughout
Software and Application  Design and development of interfaces for the seam                                         Government;
Software required for the  less operation of the Treasury System with the  H/W, S/W delivered, installed and tested;                               en
Treasury Operation      Budget Preparation, Debt Management and Cash    Application S/W tested for the following minimum   Improved Cash           o
System at RTUs and      management systems;                           functionality: maintaining and processing cash  Management for the
Center.                                                               allocation, commitment, payment and receipts  Government as a whole;
Development of methodologies for effective cash   transactions and producing core financial reports
management;                                  required by the MOF/ Treasury.                 Ability to produce fiscal
accounts data consistent
Development of a plan for upgrading the                                                     with international
informatics capability for the Treasury /MOF for                                           standards
the management of the above systems;
Development of a training strategy and plan for the
implementation of the revised Treasury Operations
System.
Acquisition, Delivery, installation and testing of
H/W and S/W;
x
0
I-i



Component               Debt Management
Objectives              Optimize the management of Public Debt
Input Indicators        Process Indicators                            Output Indicators                             Impact Indicators
Consultancy Services    Engagement of consultants                     Full functional design of systems, processes and  New management
financed by the PHRD                                                  procedures Debt Management completed and      processes for Debt
and the project in various  Development of improved methods and functional  implemented;                            Management in place and
aspects of Debt         design of systems for ledgers of domestic, foreign                                          functioning;
Management,             and aggregate public debt, and government     Detailed regulations and operating manuals
Information systems     guarantees and advances;                      completed and in use;                         Improved Debt
design and development.                                                                                             management information
Design of an appropriate standardization of debt    Technical design of Debt Management system  and improved controls of
Hardware, Systems       instruments, auction rules and calendar of issuance   completed and implemented;            borrowings in place;
Software and Application  and refunding for foreign and domestic debt;
Software required for the                                             Training strategy and plan;                   Improved Management
Debt management system   Development of an action plan that would assist                                            for Government Public
the govt. debt management offices to coordinate  H/W, S/W delivered, installed and tested;  Debt as a whole;
and optimize their debt policies vis a vis the  Application S/W tested for the following minimum
Government securities market;                 functionality: maintaining and processing public  Reduced borrowing
debt data and producing core financial reports  costs.
Development of the full functional, design of  required by the MOF/ Treasury.
systems, processes and procedures for the                                                   Adequate numbers of
management of Public debt                                                                   staff trained for the
management of Public
Design of an information system to assist the                                               Debt.
government in the management of Public Debt
Design and development of a training strategy and
plan for the implementation of the revised debt
management systems.
Acquisition of H/W, and Systems S/W and
development of Application Software                                                                                     lb
Delivery, installation and testing of H/W and SIW; |_                                                                      K
x
0



Component               PFM-IS Network
Objectives              Design and set up coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and standards that would ensure that the different elements of the
Government's PFM -IS Network can functional as an integrated whole.
Input Indicators        Process Indicators                            Output Indicators                             Impact Indicators
Consultancy Services    Hiring of Consultants;                        - Overall strategy and a medium term work plan  Effective and efficient
financed by the PHRD                                                  completed and agreed upon by major stake      arrangements for sharing
and the project         Definition of an overall strategy and a medium  holders;                                    data across the PFM -IS
comprising, PFM,        term work plan listing to ensure that the different                                         Network and for
Standards, EDI and IS   elements of the PFM IS network can interface  - Policies, procedures and standards for Data  developing a
specialists.            seamlessly;                                   administration and Systems development and    Government wide MIS
management for all elements of the PFM systems    for the PFM area.
Hardware, Systems       Definition of policies, procedures and standards for  network, and the appropriate organizational
Software, Methodologies,  Data administration and Systems development and   framework to implement these policies, procedures
Tools and Application   management for all elements of the PFM systems    and standards; completed and implemented;
Software required for   network and an appropriate organizational
setting up standard    framework;                                     - Common elements of the data architecture needed                             g
procedures for DA,                                                    centrally, identified and developed;                                          o
Systems Development,   Identifying, designing and implementing common
Data exchange, Interfaces  elements of the data architecture for central  -Inter-modular interface design completed and
between modules, across   maintenance;                                interfaces implemented selectively;
the PFM - IS Network.   Researching the nature of the interfaces that the
various PFM systems modules;                 -Technology standards established;
Definition of technology standards for the PFM IS
network so as to ensure systems compatibility and   -H/W, S/W delivered, installed and tested.
ease of maintenance;
Acquisition of HIW, and Systems S/W and
development of Application Software
Delivery, installation and testing of H/W and S/W;   _
0



Annex VilI- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996                         1997             1            1998             1            1999
ID   TaskName                                               Duration  M|A|MJIJJA|S|O  ND|J|F|M|A|M|IJJA|S|ON|DIJ|F|M|A|M|JIJAISIOINIDJ|F|M|A|MJIJASO
I   Bak Project Processing                                       82d
2        Appmaisal                                               JOd          Sf22
3        Negotiations                                             4d                          |
4        Board Approval                                           Id 1d                       U22
S        Project Launch                                           Sdi
I  i 2/13
6    Set Up Pfokect Mag  ment Structur                           40d
7        Select Project Team Leadem                               Sw                *     10i30
9/5-   10/30                                
8        Set up Administrave Arrangements                         Sw            9         j0/3()
9    ComRonent: Budget Prepatlon                                330d'                    i        _,___               _|
10       Sdect Budgeting Experts (IMF)                           30d
II            Prepare TORs                                        Iw                1  1  11/6
12            Prepare Shon List Obtain CVs                        2w                                                                                                                             ON
13            Obtain Baok Cleaance                                Iw
14            Select and Appoint Consultant                       2w
Is            Specialists in Place                                Od                          12/l
16       SelectIS&TrainingConsultants                           130d
17            PepaeTORs                                           2w               I  I   11/13
IS            Pepare Sht ListObtain CVs                          24w
19            Obtain ank Ckamnce                                 24w                 ill                 4/30
20            Seict and Appoint Consultants                      24w                   /1
21            Specialists inPlace                                  Od                                    4/30
22        Develop Functional Design                              120d
23            Finalise budget preparation process                24w                   1                41
24            Develop guidelines for macro economic forecasting  24w                                    4(D /
Page                                                                                                   - H
-NJ H



Annex Vill- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996             1             1997        -                  1998             1             1999           A
ID    TaskName                                                Duration  MAMJJIAIS              D      MAM IJ ASONDJFMAM JIJIAISIOINIDJ FIMIAIMIJ  JASO
25             Develop guidelins for forward estimates             24w                 It /                 4/16
26             Finalise chart of accounts                          24w
27             Develop transaction documents                       24w
28             Develop transaction flows                           24w
29             Functional design, manuals, guidelines complete       Od
30        Develop Technical System Design                           90d
31             Develop High level Design and Technology Archite      6w
32             Assess Existing System and Changes Required           8w                                    4/2
33             Develop Detailed Desip                               12w          
34             Complete Design Specifications                        Od
35        Implement Changes to the Bud Prep System S/W             220d
36             Prepare Short List of Contractors                    2w                      4'
37             Obtain Bank Approval                                  1w                              I 1 5
38             Send LOIs                                           0.5w
5/      5/II                          
39             Form Evaluation Committee                            2w                         1/9_
40             Clarify TORs/ await bids                             4w                                   5/5                     ;
41             Select contractor                                    2w
6:          16i
42            Obtain Bank clearance                                 2w
43            Negotiate contract                                     Iw
44            Award contract-05                                                                               7/7 59'*
45             Develop/modify application SIW for Budget Prepar     16w
46             Application S/W complete                              Od                                                      10/o9
47        Procure Hardware and Systems Software                    106d
48             Prepare Bidding Documents/ Specifications            4w                           2/6    15
Page2 2                                                                                                    H
1:7 -                                                                                                                                         I    N)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 



63
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 12
0
00
0,
------- -    - -------0-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-4   N4              C4~. N N                   00 
x
dC(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
rA~ ~ i
G X                                  tj;U         d                              I
E | g i   "  =   8               l                  l l  l
e > S R ,_
o       ._____....................__...._____._.  ..__.....___  . ....._.  ..._._.___ .Ur
e o = _ X~~
n~~~ e _                                              Is       
X   0 a   _         '



Annex Vil- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996                           1997              f             1998                           1999
ID    TskitNNe                                                 Duration  M|A|MJ|J|A|SOI N|D J1F|M|A|MIJIJ1A|S|O|NID  JIFIMIAIMIJJA|S|O|N|DIJF|MAMJJASO
73             Set up evaluation counittcc                          2w103i1i6i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 i,                                                                                                                      I
74             Receive Bids                                           Id
id              1~~~~ If 2  12/12
75             Evaluate bids                                         4w                         3    1/9
76             Obtain Bank cleaunc                                    Iw                       iiof1/16
77             Award contract                                         2w                                  0
73         ntal Systems                                             131d
79             Pepay Site                                             4w               10/ 3
So             Reeeive H/W and Systems S/W                            Iw                            2S    16
X1            Inshll & Test H/W and Systems Software                  4w                            I                              i
3fl
32             H/W and Systems S/W at Regional RTUs upaded            Od4
4/3
33        Select TraSay Experts                                      40d
S4   lreTORs  2w   10/31   11/13 
S5             Ptepae Shot L;st Obtain CVs                            2w                  11/1    I 27!
I                                    I/1                             I '2
96             Obtin Bank Clewancr                                    lw
I1/I,   tlt20
37             Seiect and Appoin Coultmt                              6w                  11/1      12/25
SS             Specialists in Place                                   Od
12/25
89        Select IS & Training Consultimts                          130d
90             PrepareTORs                                            2w                     l       31/
1031    I/I
91             Prepa  Short List Obtsin CVs                          24w                  11/1 4/30
92             ObtainBank Ciearc.                                    24w         1    1/1                      4130                i
93             Select and Appoint Consultant                         24w                  130
11/1           1
94             Speclaists an Place                                    Od                                       4130
95        Develop Functional Design                                 260d                             __________
96             Design Procses. Procedures and Manuals                52w                                                           i 12/24                        4|- XD
Pe__ _4__ __________L ___..___ . 
Page 4                                                                   H-



Annex Vill- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996                           1997             J             1998                           1999
ID    TaskNmnc                                                Duration  MiA|M|J|J|A|S|O N D J|F|M|A|M|J|J|A|S|O|N|D  J FFM|A  TJ |J|A|S|O|N|D|JIFIMIAIMIJIJ_1ASO
97            Design Inifnation flows                              52w                           i12/24
98            Desipn Trnsaction Documents                          52w
126                       1~~~~~~~~12/24
99            Design Reporting Fornats                             52w                                                            12/24
100            Develop Iega Framework Rules and Regulations         52w                     I                                     12/24
101            Functional design, processes, procedures an manual    Od
12124
102       Develop Technical Systems Design                         190d                               _     _ j _i
103            Develop High Level Design and Technical architect     4w                                    119
I  1 9
104            Develop detailed design                              20w                            120 -               6
105            Finalize specifications                               Od
106            Seach For Application Softwae (UB)                   12w                           1              S/7         10Q9
107            Fmalize Report/ Select package                        2w                                               10/30   11/12
108       Procwe/ Custoniize Application S/W                       230d                                                                                                                                   O N'
109            Obtain Bank Clearance for Procurement                 2w                           j                   10/30   11/12
110            Contract with vendor                                  4w
III            Customize Application S/W                            16w                                                      1             /1
112            Application S/W Ready                                 Od
113            Develop training program and materials               16w                                                              4/2
114            Install and Test Application S/W                      4w                           ilS
7/23     /19
115            Train Users                                           4w                                                                         82~l
116       Complete System Installation (Treasury ops.)               Od                                                                                 9/16
_  61                          I                                 . i
117   Comnponent: Debt Mlananefnent                                461dI                                                         i
I1S       Selcet Debt Managnemnt Experts (MF)                       20d
119            PrepareTORs                                           2w                10/31   1113j
120            Prepare Shon List Obtain CVs                          2w                 fl. l    II/27                                                                                          ( .D
Page                                                                                                     C
Page 5                                                                                                  :~ I-
NM H



Annex Vil- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996             1             1997                           1998                           1999
ID    TaskName                                                Duration  MFATMJJ |A|S 1         D|J|FIM|A|MIJ J|A|S O|NID1JIFIM|A|MIJ|JIA|S|O|N|D  J F|M|A|MIJ I A|S|O
121            Obtain Bank Clearance                                 1w                 1
122            Select and Appoint Consultant                         2w                 11/1   11in7
123            Specialists in Place                                  Od
124       Select IS & Training Consultants                          90d                       *
125            PrepareTORs                                           2w                1/1    11
126            Prepare Short List Obtain CVs                        16w                 1111             3/5
127            Obtain Bank Clearance                                16w                 1
128            Select and Appoint Consultant                        16w
129            Specialists in Place                                  Od                     1
130       Develop Functional Design                                120d
131            Design Processes, Procedures and Manuals             24w
11/1                 5/14
132            Design Infoissation flows                            24w                   1IA                  5/14              ,O
1~~~~~51
133            Design Transaction Documents                         24wl l                      _          _   5/14
134            Design Reporting Formats                             24w                      l                 5/14
135            Develop Legal Framework Rules and Regulations        24w                       i
136            Functional design, procedures and manuals complet     Od
I            ~~~~5/14
137       Develop Full System Design                               110d l
138            Develop High level Design and Technology Archite      6w                                       /16
139            Develop Detailed Design                              16w                               411              6
140            Complete Design Specifications                        Od                                        1        6
141       Select Debt Management System (S/W)                       70d
142            Search For Application Software (LIB)                12w                                          8/7         10/29
143            Fnalize ReportV Select package                        2w
10/30   11/12                                                            (
144       Procure/Customize Application S?                         110d                                                              _' .D
Page 6                                                                                                    H



Annex Vill- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996                          1997                           199S                           1999
ID    TaskNamne                                               Duration  M|A|M|1IJ |A|SO    I D        E JFMIAMIJIJ |AS|ONDI|F|MAMJ  JIJJA|S|O|N|DJ |FIM|A|M|J J ASO
145            Obtain Bank Clearance for Procurement                 2w                                                          I
1             ~~~~10/30   1I/
146            Contract with vendor                                  4w113    110
147            Customize Application S/W                            16w                           .                      12/11            1
148            Application S/W Ready                                 Od                           ,
149       Cutiom Devdeopneni of Application S/W- Alt Scenam        260d                     I         i         -          -
150            Prepare Short List of Contractors                     2w                     I         4/1     30
151            Obtain Bank Approval                                  2W                                 5/1
152            Send LOLr                                           0.5w                     i    .7   /11
153            Form Evaluation Committee                             2w                                         8/11   U25
154            C/arfy IORs/await bids                                4w                           .
8/11     /
155            Select contractor                                     4w                     J                       9      10/6
156            Obtain Bank ckarance                                  2w                                               0/6   10/20
157            Negotiate contract                                    Iw                     1                         (1/20 I]lo/2i
15S            A ward contract                                     0.5w                                               10/27
159            Develop application S/Wfor Debt Management           24w                     1                         10/30               /15
160            Application SIW complete                              Od                                                                     /15
161       Procure Hardware and Systems Software                    156d                     .
162            Prepare Bidding Documents/ Specifications             6w                               41         /28
163            Obtain Bank Clearance                                 2w
5/29    1 1
164            Issue tender documents ([CB)                         .w                                     6/12    18
165            Hold bidders conference                               2w                                    6/19    i            
166            Set up evaluation committee                           2w                                   5/29 i ,n
167            Recelve Bids                                           Id                                            ,
/315  F/31
168            Evaluate bids                                        12w                                              I I         I                                                                   (D
8/1 111aa  10/23                                                                    x
Page7                                                                                                      H
Ili



Annex Vil- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996             j             1997                           1998                           1999
ID    TaskName                                                Duration  M||          AS|O| IDJIF|M|A|M  J    LAS|OIND  J|F|M| MIJJALS O|N|D  J|FIM|A|M|J|J|AIS O
169            Obtain Bank clearance                                 2w                                               0/24   1 l/o
170            Award contract                                        2w                     j    ,                      1/ Ri20
171       Install Systems                                          310d                             l                                          m
172            Prepare Site                                          4w                                   5/29    6/2
173            Receive H/W and Systems S/W                           6w
12/19     1/29
174            Install HIW and Systems Software                      2w                     I                                          12
175            Develop training program and Materials                4w                     i8:-                                          .
176            Install and Test H/W                                  2w                     i                                   2/13
177            Install and Test Application S/W                      4w                                                              4/16      /13
178            Train Users                                          12w                     1                                           5/14         5
179       Debt Management System Installed                            i d                                                                       8/618V6
180   Component: PFM- IS Network                                   796d                        m;
181       Select Component ManageT                                  40d                     I
182            Prepare TORs                                          2w                1
183            Prepare Short List Obtain CVs                         2w                  1        1/27
184            Obtain Bank Clearance                                 Iw                 11/i i  1/20
IS5            Select and Appoint Consultant                         6w                  11/1  jl2/25
186            Manager in Place                                      Od                     .    *
187       Select PFM Experts, Standards Specialists, EDI specialis  90d                            12/25
1IS            Prepare TORs-                                         2w                      L
1/8
189            Prepare Short List Obtain CVs                         2w                        t      1/22
190            ObtainBankClearance                                   1w                        1/9  1/15
191            Select and Appoint Consultants                       16w                        1/9
192            Specialists in Place                                  Od                                                                                                                         Co
Page 8                                                H
.I-H



Annex VilI- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996                           1997          -                 199S                            1999
ID    Task Name                                                Duration  M|A||           J | S    D FMA   5JJ1A1         SO|N|D|JFMTAMg JJIAIS O1NIDIJIFIMIAMJIJAS
193        Select IS Consultants                                     1 30di
194            Prcpare TORs                                           2w                      L,26   1/8
195            Prepare Short List Obtain CVs                         24w
196            Obtain Bank Clearance                                 24w                         It9                6/25
1 /9i               6/25
197            Select and Appoint Consultant                         24w
____________________________________________                     j   ~~ ~~1/9            25
198            Specialists in Place                                    Od                                           6/25
199        Develop Over All Framework For PFM * IS Network           16w
5.1 _I0
200        Develop Over Strategy and Medium Term Work Progra         12w                      i/21
i          iU~~921 *  ZlI     
201        Implement Work Program                                    160d                     I
202            DefOine policies, procedurcs and standars for netwo   16w
11/13            /
203            Design and Implement organizational arrangements      16w
3/5           6/24
204            Develop and Implement Technology Standards for        24w                                                  11/13                   9
205        Policies, Proeedures, standards for PFM IS Network in pi    Od
206        Procure Hardware and Systems Software Necessary for P     106d                     !                                                 4/29
207            Prepare Bidding Documenla/ Specifications              4w                                                              3J5
203            Obtain Bank Clearance                                  2w
209            Issue tender documents (ICB)                            Iw
210            Hold bidders confcrenoe                                 2w                      1                                         4/1      2
211            Set up evaluation eonunittee2                                                   I                                         4123     6
2w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
212            Receive Bids                                            Id                      1                                              642
213            Evaluate bids                                          4w                                                                      6/4    4
214            Obtain Bank eleance                                    2w                                                                        7/3   /16
215            Award contract                                          2w 
216        Install Systerns                                          16                                                                                                   
___                                                                          ./1 .0_ 
176t1
0
Page 9
t .   ,-



Annex Vil- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
1996             1             1997             1             1998                           1999        _
ID    Task Name                                               Duration   MA        JJASIONIDIjTFMAMIJIJASIONIDJIFIMAMIJJIAISIOND  IFMIAIMJIJAS10
217            Prepare Site                                    DN
218            Receive H/W and Systems S/W                           4w
219            Install H/W and Systems Software                      2w
220            Install and Test H/W                                  2w
i    f                i                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~10/9 <10/22
221            Train Users                                           6w
|    .                .                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10/23-1213
222        Systems Installed                                          Od
223       Identify, design and implement common elements of dat     50w                                                                                   12/4
224        Design implement interfaces between elements of the PF   50w                                                                                   12/4
225   Project Complete                                                O
C" D
(D 
rD
O x
0<
Page 10                                                                                                   I-I
I - 
..                            .  .   .                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Annex VlIl- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
2000                           2001                            2002                           2
ID    Task Name                                                 Duration  N D JFMAMJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMI
169            Obtain Bank clearance                                  2w
170            Award contract                                         2w
171       Install Systems                                           310d
172            Prepare Site                                           4w
173            Receive WW and Systems S/W                             6w
174            Install H/W and Systers Software                       2w
175            Develop training program and Materials                 4w
176            Install and Test H/W                                   2w
177            Install and Test Application SIW                       4w
178            Train Users                                           12w
179       Debt Management System Installed                             Id
180   Componeat: PFM- IS Network                                    796d
181       Select Component Manager                                   40d
182            Prepare TORs                                           2w
183            Prepamr Short List Obtain CVs                          2w                                      i
184            Obtain Bank Clearance                                  I w
185            Select and Appoint Consultant                          6w
186            Manager in Place                                        Od
187        Select PFM Expets, Standards Specialists, EDI special is   90d
188            Prepare TORs                                           2w
189            Prepre Short List Obtain CVs                           2w
190            Obtain Bank Clearance                                  Iw
191            Selct snd Appoint Consultants                         16w       i 
192            Spceiiists in Place                                     Od
0
Pos 11



Annex Vill- Hungary- Public Finance Management Project
_  _ _   1    2000                              2001                             2002                             2
ID  Task Name                                                      Duration NDJFMAMJJ ASONDJMAM                                         AISOINIDIJ|F|M|A|M|J|J|A|S|O|N|D|J|FIM|A|M|J
217             Prepare Site                                              4w
218             Receive Il1/W and Systemi S/W                             4w
219             Install IVW and Systems Software                          2w
220             Install and Test H/W                                      2w
221             Train Users                                               6w
222        Systemrs Installed                                              Od
223        Identify, design and implement common elcments of dat         50w
224        Design implement interfaces between elements of the PF        SOw      il/S
225   Project Complete                                                     Od    1118
"3
N~(D
0
Page 12
-IH



73
Annex IX
Page 1 of 1
Public Finance Management Project
List of Selected Documents on Project File
1.      IMF Report: Hungary: Strengthening the Financial Management of
Government Operations, Fiscal Affairs, July 1994
2.      Terms of Reference:
(i) For the elaboration of the Public Finance Management Information System
(PFMIS).
(ii) The specification of the Budget Departments datamodel.
(iii) Implementation of the Budget Departments datamodel.
(iv) Specifications for the Treasury Ledger System (TLS), based on the
PFMIS.
(v) Planning systems and modules for the TLS.
(vi) Establish data and information output systems for the PFMIS.
(vii) Study on the integration of local governments into the Treasury.



I






IMAGING
Re-port. No;       u  7 H U
Type: 



