Report No. PIC2872
Project Name              Hungary-Public Finance Management Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Public Financial Management
Project ID                HUPA43446
Borrower                  Republic of Hungary
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Mr. Csaba Lazlo
Deputy State Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Josef Nador ter 2/4
1359 Budapest
Hungary
Tel: 361 118-2066
Fax: 361 118-70
Environment Category      "C"
Date PID Prepared         April 30, 1996
Projected Appraisal       May 20, 1996
Projected Board Date      September 1996
Peer Reviewers            Messrs. William Alan (IMF/FAD), Luis-Jose Mejia
(LAIPS)
Country and Sector Background
I.   Hungary has experienced a major public finance crisis.    An
excessively gradualist approach to the public sector reform, based on
the desire to ensure social stability during the transition, has led to
unsustainable levels of expenditures and fiscal deficits. The large
budget deficits have expanded Hungary's public debt. With gross
external debt of 70 percent of GDP, and a debt service of 8 percent of
GDP, Hungary ranks ahead of the fifteen most heavily indebted countries.
II. Faced with unsustainable internal and external macro imbalances,
the Hungarian authorities announced in March 1995 a package of measures
aimed at stabilizing the economy, including significant cuts in fiscal
expenditures, increases in fiscal revenues, an up-front devaluation of
9 percent followed by a pre-announced crawling peg, and strict wage
controls in the public sector. These measures were essential to
forestall a possible financial crisis. However, they constitute only a
first step on the road to economic recovery. Further fiscal corrections
will be needed to bring the budget and current account deficits down to
sustainable levels. Moreover, major structural reforms in the public
sector and in the banking and enterprise sectors are necessary to reduce
the size of the State, release resources for the private sector, and
thus to ensure a high and sustainable growth.
III. To address the most severe structural weaknesses in the public



sector, the Government is preparing a plan for a comprehensive Public
Finance Reform. The reform of the public sector is expected to be fully
implemented over a period of about four years, starting in 1996. The
Public Finance Reform program emphasizes institutional improvements that
yield the largest budgetary savings, promote transparency of actions,
while simultaneously increase the efficiency of public services and of
the allocation of public resources. The program concentrates on
restructuring and reforming: (a) the welfare system; (b) tax policy and
tax administration; (c) public administration and public finance
management; and (d) intergovernmental finances.
Public Finance Management Reform
IV. The reform of public finance management is necessary to improve the
allocation of public resources. The organization and financial
management of government operations faces several major problems.
First, widespread earmarking of revenues reduces the flexibility in
reallocating scarce public resources to priority needs. Second,
anticipated budget management practices hamper effective expenditure
control. Third, public debt management is inefficient and suffers from
too fragmented responsibilities with independent borrowing authority
granted to various agencies. Fourth, the government financial
information system is inadequate for budget planning and execution (see
1/).
V.   The Government launched a three-year plan to improve financial
planning, budget execution and a better coordination in financing
government deficits. This plan involves major changes in institutional
arrangements, including the budgeting process. Budgetary institutions
at the central level are being rationalized; number of extrabudgetary
funds reduced; skills required in public administration redefined; and
the employment management and structure in the public sector reformed.
In January 1996, the government undertook a critical step to ensure
budgetary control by establishing a Treasury, and introducing an interim
Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS). According
to the 1996 budget law approved by Parliament in December 1995, all
central budgetary institutions and most extrabudgetary funds have been
absorbed into the Treasury system.
VI. The IMF has been advising the Government on setting up the Treasury
and on key aspects of budget preparation and expenditure management over
the last two years. The US Treasury and the UK Know How Fund are also
rendering advice to the Government on budget and treasury matters. The
Bank has been collaborating with both the IMF and the bi-lateral
providers of technical assistance to assist the Government in its
reforms and in preparing a Public Sector Adjustment Loan.
Establishment of a Treasury
VII. The Government has established a central Treasury to improve: (a)
financial planning; (b) financial execution of the budgets of budgetary
chapters, autonomous central budgetary institutions, extra-budgetary
funds and Social Security funds and of transfers between central and
local governments; and (c) planning and coordination of the financing of
government deficits. The separate accounts of central budgetary
- 2 -



institutions and, particularly, the liquidity fund, the central MOF
account, which is the net balance of many credit and debit accounts
maintained by NBH, are being progressively consolidated into a Treasury
Single Account (TSA) maintained by NBH. The consolidation of the
accounts into a TSA is currently taking place. This will be accompanied
with the development of GFMIS, incorporating ledger accounts for both
budget preparation and implementation and a system to monitor financial
flows. As a result, all government revenues would be deposited in the
TSA and simultaneously credited to the GFMIS. Transfers between
agencies would be registered in the GFMIS but would not affect the TSA
position. Only payments outside of the TSA system would be debited. In
this way, the Treasury system is expected to lead to a more efficient
cash management and savings in financing of the Government.
VIII.   Under a decree of July 1995 and an Amendment of Act on Public
Finance of November 1995, the Treasury is expected to: (a) enforce a
strict relationship between the budget appropriation and payments; (b)
implement new systems for cash and debt management; (c) eliminate the
transfer of cash in transactions between Government agencies; (d)
implement a homogenous accounting and GFMIS to increase transparency of
budget execution and the quality of financial information available to
Government agencies; (e) implement a centralized TSA at the NBH; (f)
ensure that all Government receipts and payments to non-Governmental
agencies are transacted through the TSA; and (g) carry out detailed
accounting for agencies connected to the system.
IX. The Government has set up a task force in the MOF, headed by a
Deputy Secretary of State having the rank of Government Commissioner, to
implement the establishment of the central Treasury. Implementation of
the Treasury systems and of the GFMIS is expected to take place during
1996-98 with the following major milestones:
* January 1, 1996 - Adjust legal framework for government
financial management; adopt required budget and accounting
nomenclatures; start operation of the Treasury Single Account;
absorb all central budgetary institutions and extra budgetary funds
into the Treasury circle; eliminate cash payments between
government agencies, including collection of social security tax
for public employees; start effecting payments against invoices
from suppliers rather than by pre-financing agencies in
anticipation of such payments. Government institutions would
maintain detailed accounting records but would assure that
accounting is based on the new classification system and Treasury
management regulations.
* January 1, 1997 - Extend the above mentioned measures to other
central budgetary organizations and public bodies, including the
social security institutions; start providing detailed GFMIS based
accounting and management reporting to the central government and
its agencies. Government institutions would still retain parallel
accounting as a security measure; and
* January 1, 1998 - The GFMIS would achieve full operation.
Treasury operations would be extended to local government
(municipalities) and public bodies outside the central budget.
- 3 -



X.   The January 1996 milestones have been accomplished.    The legal and
policy steps have been implemented according to the time table.
Detailed regulations and procedures necessary for the day to day
operations of the treasury system are being developed.
Budgeting
XI. Work has commenced, with the assistance of the US Treasury, to
classify the Budget consistent with GFS methodology, and develop a chart
of accounts for use in the final Treasury System. The central budget
preparation process is already well formalized and logical in approach.
However, the fiscal information system must be upgraded, so that, the
final data on budgetary chapter revenues and expenditures, including
central budgetary institutions and extra budgetary funds, are made
available for the preparation of the annual budget and for effective
budget execution and control. The Budget Department needs to improve
its access to necessary information from local governments and from the
Social Security Funds. Ultimately, not only the Treasury, but also
local governments will need to update their information technologies to
be able to support a proper budget preparation process.
XII. Following recommendations developed under PSAL, the Government
program also acknowledges the need to improve coordination between the
budget preparation and budget execution areas. This will involve
bringing together the development of a budget preparation system with
the work on the Treasury system. The databases of both budget
preparation and budget implementation will be constructed on one
identical chart of accounts and at the same level of detail. Thus,
under the Public Financial Management Reform program, the existing
databases will be consolidated, and compatible operating software
systems will be developed and harmonized across the Budgeting Department
and the Treasury.
Objectives
XIII.   The overall objectives of the project are to assist the
Government to optimize the deployment and use of its financial resources
through changes in the institutional structure of public finance and in
the budgeting process by: (a) introducing improved methods, guidelines
and systems for budget preparation, macro economic forecasting and,
particularly, preparation of forward estimates; (b) ensuring smooth and
timely execution of the budget, while minimizing the cost of Government
financing through the newly established Treasury; (c) optimizing the
management of public debt; and (d) designing and setting up
coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and standards that would
ensure that the different elements of the Government's Public Financial
Management (PFM) network can function as an integrated whole.
Description
XIV. The proposed PFMP project would focus on the key initiatives of the
Government's program of Public Financial Management Reform. The project
content would be organized into four components: (a) Budget Preparation;
(b) Treasury Operations; (c) Debt Management; and (d) Public Finance
Management Information Systems Network.
- 4-



(a)     Budget Preparation
During the preparation and design phases, technical assistance
would initially be provided through a PHRD Grant to:
(i)      develop improved methods and guidelines for budget
preparation, macroeconomic forecasting and preparation of
forward estimates;
(ii)     review existing budget coding structures, and, if
necessary, develop and design a revised structure and
chart of accounts conforming with GFS and EU
classification methodologies and suitable for both
budget preparation and implementation; and
(iii)    develop functional design of systems, processes and
procedures for Budget Preparation.
During the implementation phase, the project would provide
technical assistance, computer hardware and software to:
(i)      implement the revised budget and program code structure and
chart of accounts for the central government;
(ii)     develop detailed regulations and operating manuals;
(iii)    design and implement an information system to assist
the government in the Budget Preparation process; and
(iv)     design and develop a training strategy and plan for the
implementation of the revised budget preparation
system.
(b)     Treasury Operations
During the preparation and design phases, technical assistance
would first be provided under the PHRD Grant to:
build on prior work done by the Government of Hungary, and
develop the full functional design of systems, processes and
procedures for budget implementation, expenditure control and
treasury operations through the introduction of a Treasury
Ledger System (TLS). Attention would be paid to developing
detailed specifications of expenditure controls (checking for
budget appropriations, prior commitment and verification for the
receipt of goods and services, prior to authorizing payment) and
necessary detailed regulations and operating manuals.
During the implementation phase, the project would enable the
government to complete the technical design and implement the
system at the Central Treasury and the regional treasury Units.
Specifically, the project would provide technical assistance
- 5 -



computer hardware and software to:
(i)      Enhance and migrate the current interim Treasury
application system software to a more robust form
incorporating the functional design aspects developed
during the design phase;
(ii)     Upgrade the Hardware and Systems software at the
Regional Treasury Units and migrate to a UNIX platform
and implement the full function treasury system at
these sites and the Central Treasury.
(iii)    Design and develop interfaces for the seamless
operation of the Treasury system with the budget
preparation, debt management and cash management
systems;
(iv)     Design, develop and help implement a training strategy
and plan for establishing the revised budget execution
process and the new treasury system.
(v)      Assist the Treasury in developing methodologies for
effective cash management.
(vi)     Develop a plan for setting up/upgrading   the
informatics capability for the Treasury / MOF for the
management of the above systems and specify the
organizational structure, training skills requirements
for this facility.
(c)     Debt Management
During the preparation and design phase, the technical assistance
under the PHRD Grant would emphasize the development of improved
methods, regulations and guidelines for debt recording, reporting
and issuance. The work would be carried out in a close cooperation
with the agencies responsible for domestic and foreign debt
management to:
(i)      develop improved methods and functional design of systems
for ledgers of domestic, foreign and the aggregate public
debt, and government guarantees and advances;
(ii)     design an appropriate standardization of debt
instruments, auction rules and calendar of issuance and
refunding, for both the foreign and domestic debt, and
(iii)    develop an action plan that would assist the Government
debt management offices to coordinate and optimize
their debt policies vis-a-vis the government securities
market, including further institutional development of
the central registries of dealers and investors, and
surveillance of dealers and audit.
During the implementation phase, the project would concentrate on
- 6 -



providing technical assistance, computer hardware and software to
reduce the cost and risks of government borrowing. Specifically,
based on the findings and agreements reached under the project
preparation phase, the project would:
(i)      develop the full functional design of systems, processes
and procedures for management of public debt, including
improvements in institutional arrangements and regulations;
(ii)     design an information system to assist the government
in optimizing management of public debt; and
(iii)    prepare operating manuals, training programs and a plan
to implement the revised system of public debt
management.
(d)     Public Finance Management Information Systems Network
A number of different systems modules are required to cover the
full functionality of a Government Financial Management Information
System. The attached diagram (Figure 1) shows the possible core
elements of a PFM systems network for Hungary and the main
information flows between elements. The Y axis lists the main
functional processes associated with PFM and the X- axis the
organizations -normally responsible for these processes. Each box
in this diagram lies at the intersection of the functional process
and the organization(s) normally associated with the process and
may be seen as a information support system for that process. Each
such system could in practice comprise a number of subsystems. The
main information flows between the systems modules are also shown
in the diagram.
In Hungary, a number of these systems are already being implemented
as part of separate projects (e.g. Systems for Tax, Customs, Health
Insurance and Social security Administration). It is important that
the Government put in place policies, procedures and standards that
would ensure coordination amongst these efforts. This component
would strive to achieve this coordination.
During the design phase, this component of the project would, as a
first step, review current and planned Information Systems Projects
in the PFM area and develop an overall framework that would provide
an overview of the systems network required to support PFM. During
this phase the project would also define an overall strategy and a
medium term work plan listing actions that need to be taken to
ensure that the different elements of the PFM IS network can
interface seamlessly and that the Government obtains the
anticipated payoff from its considerable investments in
Information Systems in the PFM area.
During the implementation phase work would start on accomplishing
the tasks identified in the medium term work plan; These would
include;
(i)     Defining policies, procedures and standards that need to be
- 7-



specified for Data administration and Systems development
and management for all elements of the PFM systems network,
and the appropriate organizational framework to implement
these policies, procedures and standards.
(ii)    Identifying, designing and implementing those elements of
the data architecture that would need to be maintained
centrally for use by all systems modules across the network
and the procedures and responsibilities for the maintenance
of these common / reference data bases.
(iii)   Researching in greater detail, the nature of the interfaces
that the various systems modules would need to have with
other elements of the PFM Information Systems Network for
Fiscal Management. Specifically some of the priority
issues that would be addressed would be:
possible alternatives methods of linking/interfacing    with
the accounting systems at the Central Budgetary
Institutions;
the method  and nature of interfaces with the Social
Security and the Health Insurance Systems; and
the extent to which municipalities and local governments
should be included in the system.
(iv)    Defining the technology standards that would need to be
adhered across the systems network so as to ensure systems
compatibility and ease of maintenance;
(v)     Investigating the feasibility of using Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI) as a possible method of exchanging
information between systems elements, in particular for
exchange of information on budget planning, appropriation
modification, expenditures, verifications, etc., among CBIs
and the MOF/ Treasury.
Once the initial framework has been set up and the pre- requisites
and criteria for integration have been spelled out and incorporated
in the implementation plan, the actual implementation of systems
modules would be carried out as part of individual projects for
respective areas.
XV. For each of the components, the project would provide financing for
computer equipment, software, telecommunications, support services, and
technical contract staff capacity for the development of the Budget
Preparation, the Treasury, GFMIS and Debt Management application
systems. It is expected that information technology goods would consist
of commodity equipment (UNIX-type computers, PC-type work-stations, and
telecommunications devices). Additional areas of contracting would
possibly include: (a) contract staff for systems development and
implementation activities for initial operation of the system; (b)
systems integration and auditing services; and (c) technical training
and overseas workshops for information technology staff from the central
- 8 -



and regional directorates and Central Budgetary Institutions.
Financing
XVI. Preliminary investment cost estimates for the project are about US$
10.17 million of which the Bank would finance US$7.5 million. In
addition, US$900,000 has been approved from a PHRD Grant to prepare and
design the project. During project implementation, approximately
US$450,000 would be allocated for technical assistance and training and
about US$450,000 for design of systems and application software required
for implementing the budget preparation, treasury and debt management
systems and for developing policies, procedures and standards for the
PFM information systems network.
Implementation
XVII.   Project implementation arrangements related to the project
components are described below. These components are expected to be
fully implemented over a four year period with most activities to be
completed over three years. The Ministry of Finance would administer
the funds under the project and coordinate project activities. The MOF
has appointed Mr. Csaba Laszlo, as the Bank's counterpart for this
project. A unit in the NBH, responsible for coordination of Bank
projects, and already staffed with personnel trained in Bank procedures
for procurement and disbursement, will assist the MOF during project
execution and for periodic reporting about the project progress. Four
teams would be set up to implement the reforms in the areas of Budget
Preparation, Treasury Operations, Debt Management, and to develop and
implement policies, procedures and standards across the PFM - IS
Network, respectively:
(a)     The MOF Department of State Budget would lead the efforts
related to the development of the policies, methods,
guidelines for budget preparation, including methodology
and functional requirements for preparing in-advance
budgets, revision of the chart of accounts, in coordination
with the Treasury Department, and the functional design of
the computer systems required for budget preparation;
(b)    The Treasury Department would coordinate the activities
related to the development of the detailed regulations and
the specifications of the processes, procedures and the
functional design of the systems for expenditure control,
cash management and treasury operations.
(c)    The Government Debt Management Agency, scheduled to be
absorbed within the Treasury, would direct the Bank
assistance in developing and implementing policies and
information technology for public debt management.
(d)    The newly set up Public Sector Financial Information
Office, would coordinate activities in setting up
coordinating mechanisms, policies, procedures and standards
to ensure that the different elements of the PFM systems
network interface seamlessly.
-9-



Rationale for Bank Involvement
XVIII. The proposed PFMP project has been suggested in the course of
the preparatory work for the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan
(PSAL). The PSAL work has identified the need for institutional
strengthening in a number of areas, with an emphasis on budgeting and
expenditure management. The PFMP project would focus on reforming the
institutional structure of public finance and on the budgeting process.
By designing and implementing the necessary tools, the PFMP would assist
the Government in both implementing and monitoring the required measures
of the Public Finance Reform. Bank support would thus significantly
help the government to develop an efficient system of public finance.
This would be in line with the objectives of the Bank's CAS for Hungary
(Report No.14486-HU, May 17, 1995).
Sustainability
XIX. The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon the
commitment by the authorities to the project objectives. As mentioned
above, the Government has indicated its commitment to the Public
Financial Management Reform, and set an explicit time table for the
implementation of the GFMIS and the Treasury System.
XX. Another critical condition for project sustainability is that the
Treasury be able to assimilate and retain the transfer of technology.
To institutionalize the technology changes smoothly, the PFMP project
would recruit foreign and local specialists and structure training
programs for the staffs. The project would also rely on the Treasury
Information System Project group to provide the technical skills
required for systems development and maintenance. Where this group
lacks suitable skills, the PFMP project would allow the MOF to recruit
and finance technical staff from the market, on a consultancy basis. By
developing long-term training strategies, the PFMP would also ensure a
sustained institutional support. The PFMP project would extend the
training program to budgetary chapters, central budgetary institutions
and other agencies associated with the implemented systems. The
Government indicated that it would adjust its human resource management
policies to facilitate retaining and better use of trained staff.
Increased participation of the local private sector in the systems
development process would also help ensure sustainability.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
XXI. Sector experience of the Bank indicates that projects with a
sizable amount of technical assistance and information systems
investment should: (a) be carefully focused, particularly to provide
adequate attention to functional design issues prior to computerization
issues to ensure effective and efficient implementation; (b) have the
active support of government and ministry officials, to ensure properly
considered and timely decision making on crucial issues; and (c) have a
well defined procurement plan including terms of reference for
consultants and studies, drafted and agreed with the Borrower prior to
negotiations.
XXII.   Based on these lessons the PFMP project will focus on only four
- 10 -



specific areas for which government commitment and financing has been
secured. Also, given the importance of institutional capacity building
and information systems in the project, the project team will closely
supervise handling of the design, procurement and implementation
challenges.
Environmental Aspects
XXIII. In accordance with the bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OD4.02 Annex E), the proposed project has been
placed in Category "C" and does not require an environment assessment.
Benefits
XXIV.   The proposed PFMP project would lead to substantial financial
and economic benefits. By developing the central Treasury system and
optimizing the budgeting process and debt management, the project would
contribute to reducing the Government borrowing needs and borrowing
costs. Tools and skills developed under the project would enable access
to timely, accurate and consistent financial information to improve
resource planning, cash management, budgeting, macro-economic
forecasting, and public expenditure management and control. Development
and implementation of policies, procedures and standards for the PFM-IS
network would enable the government to obtain anticipated benefits from
the substantial Information Systems/Information Technology (IS/IT)
investments that are being made in the PFM area
XXV.    Improvements in the public finance management would promote the
capacity to properly formulate and execute fiscal policies.
Particularly, the consolidation of various information databases,
consistency in the classification of expenditure items, and an effective
system to control expenditure and monitor cash flows would enhance
transparency and accountability in the fiscal processes. Since these
are within the direct purview of the state machinery, no alternate
approaches to reforms appear feasible. The project would, however,
explore alternative design strategies to enable the Government to decide
on the most suitable configuration for the system. The project is
crucial to the Government Public Financial Management Reform and to
transparency and accountability in government operations, its benefits
would therefore be far-reaching.
1/ See International Monetary Fund, Hungary: Strengthening the Financial
Management of Government Operations, Fiscal Affairs, July 1994.
Contact Point:        Task Manager: Hiran Herat
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 473-2489
Fax (202) 477-1692



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 12 -



