Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4113 HU
                             Loan Agreement
                  (Public Finance Management Project)
                                between
                          REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated December 13, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4113 HU
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
Page  2
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; and
     (c)  "HST" means the Hungarian State Treasury.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to seven million seven hundred fifty thousand Dollars
($7,750,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOF and HST with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  3
      (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of MOF and HST responsible
for carrying out the Project.
      (b)  The Borrower shall:
           (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                each such year, the report of such audit by said
                auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                 with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                 accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                 received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                 which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                 made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                 bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                 such expenditures;
          (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                 records; and
           (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                 in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                 of this Section and that the report of such audit
                 contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                 whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                 during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                 cedures and internal controls involved in their
                 preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                 related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
Page  4
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Deputy President or the General Manager of the
Central Bank of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest, Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Republic of Hungary
          Cable address:                Telex:
               BANKO                    22-5755
               Budapest
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                 248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Budapest, Republic of Hungary, as of the day
and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                    By /s/ Csaba Laszlo
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Millard Long
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
Page  5
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                  Dollars)        to be Financed
 (1) Equipment                 5,000,000       100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 85% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items procured
                                               locally
(2)  Consultants'              1,800,000       100%
     Services
(3)  Training                    200,000       100%
(4)  Unallocated                 750,000
                               _________
     TOTAL                     7,750,000
                               =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $775,000 may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after September 15, 1996.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent, under
contracts for services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000
equivalent, under contracts for services of individual consultants
costing less than $50,000 and contracts for training under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in optimizing
the deployment and use of its financial resources through changes in the
institutional structure and capacity of public finance management and in
the budgeting process.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Budget Preparation
     Provision of technical assistance and computer equipment, including
software for:
          (i)  the implementation of the revised budget and program code
               structure and chart of accounts for the central
Page  6
               government;
         (ii)  the development of regulations and operating manuals for
               budget reporting;
        (iii)  preparation of the design and implementation of an
               information system to assist in the budget preparation
               process; and
         (iv)  preparation of the design and development of a training
               strategy and plan for the implementation of the revised
               budget preparation system.
Part B:   Treasury Operations
     Provision of technical assistance and computer equipment, including
software for:
          (i)  improvement of the current interim treasury application
               system software, incorporating the functional design
               aspects developed during the design phase;
         (ii)  the upgrading of the hardware systems software at the
               regional treasury units, transfer to a UNIX platform
               and implementation of the full function treasury
               system;
        (iii)  the design and development of interfaces for the
               operation of the treasury system with the budget
               preparation, debt management and cash management
               systems;
         (iv)  the design, development and implementation of a
               training strategy and plan for establishing the
               revised budget execution process and the new
               treasury system;
          (v)  the development of methodologies for effective
               cash management; and
         (vi)  the development of a plan for setting up or upgrading
               the informatics capability of HST for the management
               of the above systems and definition of an organiza-
               tional structure and training requirements for this
               facility.
Part C:   Debt Management
     Provision of technical assistance and computer equipment, including
software for:
          (i)  the development of the full functional design of systems
               processes and procedures for management of public debt,
               including improvements in institutional arrangements
               and the development of necessary regulations and
               operating manuals;
         (ii)  the design of an information system to assist in the
               management of public debt; and
        (iii)  the design and development of a training strategy and
               plan for the implementation of the revised debt manage-
               ment system.
Part D:   Public Finance Management Information Systems Network
     Provision of technical assistance and computer equipment, including
software for:
          (i)  the definition of policies, procedures and standards
               needed for data administration systems development and
               management for all elements of the public finance
Page  7
               management systems network, and of the appropriate
               organizational framework to implement these policies,
               procedures and standards;
         (ii)  the identification, design and implementation of
               elements of the data architecture needed to be main-
               tained centrally for use by all systems modules across
               the network and the procedures and responsibilities
               for the maintenance of these common/reference data
               bases;
        (iii)  conducting research regarding the interfaces that the
               various systems modules need to have with other
               elements of the public finance management information
               systems network for fiscal management;
         (iv)  the definition of the technology standards needed to be
               adhered to across the systems network so as to ensure
               systems compatibility and ease of maintenance; and
          (v)  the review of the feasibility of using electronic data
               interchange as a possible method of exchanging infor-
               mation between systems elements, in particular for
               exchange of information on budget planning, appro-
               priation modification, expenditures, verification
               among central budgetary institutions and the
               Borrower's Treasury.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to
its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
Page  8
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
               by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such
               Interest Period.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
               the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applic-
able to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Page  9
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto,
in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.
Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after December 15,
2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and to be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Specialized application software, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of cost
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the guidelines.
2.   International or National Shopping
     (a)  Software and hardware estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$710,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000, may be
procured under contracts on the basis of national shopping procedures,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Page  10
Guidelines.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of
said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more; and each contract procured under the provisions of
Parts C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
Page  11
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent
to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
Page  12
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
greement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
standing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
