Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
RePutNo. 12150
PROJECT COMPLETION REPURT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOA 2236-IND)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12150
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a retricted dbutiton and may be uwd by recipients only in te perfomance of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of Harch, 1992)
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1            Rp 2,000
Rp 1 million - US$500
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
Local Governments: April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                 -   Asian Developme:-t Bank
BPAL                -   Interim Entity
CK                  -   Directorate General ef Human Settlements
DKI-Jakarta         -   Jakarta Special Capital Province
GOI                 -   Government of Indonesia
ICB                 -   International Competitive Bidding
ISU                 -   Interim Sewerage Unit
JSSP                -   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
JUDP                -   Jabotabek Urban Development Project
KIP                 -   Kampung Improvement Pro4ect
MA                  -   Memorandum of Agreemen,
MCK                 -   Public Facility
MPW                 -   Ministry of Public Works
O&M                 -   Operation and Maintenance
PDAM                -   Water company
PDPAL               -   Sewerage Entity
PIU                 -   Project Implementation Unit
PLP                 -   Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
PMU                 -   Project Management Unit
UNDP                -   United Nation's Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-Genral
Operatiosa Evaluatioa
P13RNOUlM TO TME MO=CUE DIRTCTORS AI) TIM PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Jakarts Sewerage nd Sanitation Project (Logn 2236-I)D)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Jakarta
Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Loan 2236-IND)," prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office with Part II contributed by the borrower.
The project resulted from an alternative design approach to the
prohlbitively expensive mastor plan proposals for the sewerage of Jakarta.  It
proposed a mixed sewerage and low cost waste disposal solution, appropriate to
specific areas, and the testing of these alternatives in a small pilot project.
The physical, environmental and public health objectives of the
project were not achieved due to inappropriate design, poor Implementation and
procurement problems. An autonomous sewerage entity has been established but it
is short of staff, has weak management and is financially insecure. Accordingly
the outcome of the project Is rated as un atisfactory and the sustainability of
its limited achievements as unlikely. The achievement of the institutional
development objectives was partial.
The Project Completion Report is of mediocre quality but the lack of
technical and financial information is due to the paucity of project data. The
better prepared Part II emphasizes the inadequate preparation of the project.
An audit of the project is planned.
IThf. document hag a restrfeted distribution ernd may be used by recipients only in the perorfonc
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Uortd Bank authorizatfon.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 2236-IND)
Table of Contents
Page N2.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   I  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Evaluation Summary  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    ii
1.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Section 1.   Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Section 2.   Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Section 3.   Project Objectives an.l Description . . . . .    2
Section 4    Project Design and Implemerntation
Organiz:.tion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Section 5.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Section 6    Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Section 7.   Ba.k Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Section 8.   Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Section 9.   Project Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Section 10.  Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . .   L4
Section 11.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . .   15
Section 12.  4ain Lessons and Conclusions . . . . . . . .   15
II.    BORROWER'S EVALUATION . . . . . . . . .19
III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.    Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Table 2.    Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Table 3      Project Results Summary . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Table 4.    Project Costs Summary . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Table 5.    Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3S
Table 6.(a) PDPAL Jaya - Financial Information  . . . . .  40
Table 6.(b) PDPAL Jaya - Tariff Structure   . . . . . . .  41
Annex 1.    Compliance with Loan Covengats  .  . . . . . .   36
APPENDIXE
Appendix A......................                                 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETIONR EPORT
INDONESIA
JARATA SEMER&GE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Preface
This document presents a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (JSSP). Basic descriptive data for
the proiect includes:
Lvan No.                            2236-IND
Loan Amount                         US$22,400,000
Board Approval Date                 February 8, 1983
Loan Completion Date                March 31, 1991
Completion Delay                    60%
Percentage of Loan Disbursed        98%
Final Disbutsemenit Date            August 14, 1991
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of Department 3
(EA3IN), East Asia and Pacific Region, and the Borrower represented by the
Directorate General of Human Settlements commonly known as Cipta Karya, of the
Ministry of Public Works. The Borrower has reviewed Part I and III of this
PCR and its comments have been incorporated.
Preparation of this PCR was discussed with GOI representatives
during the supervision mission of March 1991, and a brief visit to the Project
Management in October 1991. GOI staff and Project Management with the help of
consultants initiated preparation of the Borrower's Evaluation (Part II)
during the second half of 1991, and submitted their report in January 1992.
This report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan
Agreement, supervision reports, consultant outputs, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and the internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INRDONESIA
JAKARTA,SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Evaluation Summary
The operation reviewed in this PCR was the first step in
recognizing the 'Lack of attention in the past to sewerage and sanitation in
Indonesia in general and in Jakarta in particular, and the obvious need for
developing what was called nonconventional but appropriate solutions in a
relatively new urban sector. The prime objective of the project was the
improvement and safeguarding of public health by improving the urban
environment (para. 1.8). The long-term objective of the project was the
establishment of appropriate institutions to become responsible for sewerage
and sanitation services.
implementation experience has been disappointing (para. 1.12).
Serious problems, ranging from tardy procurement procedures, shortage of
counterpart funds, weak implementation organization, to institutional issues
emerged early in the start-up phase and persisted throughout the
implementation period. As a result the Bank and the Borrower came to the
realization that a practical way to complete the project was to reduce its
scope by deferring several components which were assessed as requiring more
time and making them candidates for inclusion in the next generation of
Jakarta Urban Projects.  Subsequently the Bank and GOI agreed to r'formulate
the project to allow completion of certain schemes whose Implementation was
relatively advanced.  Several of the schemes postponed were later tucorporated
as components of the Jabotabek Urban Development Projects (JUDP) II and III
which were approved by the Board in 1990.
The results of the operation were mixed, and in general fell short
of both physical targets and main objectives (para. 1.18). The institutional
objective of establishing a financially autonomous sewerage entity in Jakarta
within acceptable regulatory framework has been achieved substantially. An
entity of SKI Jakarta now exists charged with the responsibility and requisite
authority for managing sewerage services In Jakarta. PDPAL Jaya, the newly
established sewerage entity, will be responsible for future operations and
maintenance of the sewerage system. The financing for operatv'ns and
maintenance of the sewerage system will be provided from the user charges
PDPAL Jaya will levy on all its customers. The sewerage tariff rate and
structure has been designed to provide full cost recovery in the medium to
long term (para. 1.19). Under JUDP II Loan, the Borrower made an undertaking
for achievement of a cash break-even point for the sewerage operation. This
condition has already been met and PDPAL is expected to self- finance its
operating budget fully effective April 1992. But it remains a weak
organization which continues to rely on tecchnical assistance currently being
provided under the JUDP-II project.



- iii 
A small sewerage system has been completed connecting many of
Jakarta's high-rise and commerci l buildings in the main business area along
the Jalan Sudirman/Rasuna Said r ad axis. The remaining sewerage schemes
representing about 48% of the to al sewerage treatment capacity will be
completed under the on-goirig JUDP II Project. A maximum of about 375,000
population equivalent will be served by the sewerage system after it is built
to currently available treatment capacity (paras. 2.2-2.5).
The results of the sanitation program were not encouraging, as the
program was beset with a combination of obstacles which significantly reduced
the potential for this program as a viable option for disposal of human waste
in Jakarta in an environmentally safe way. Various surveys conducted during
the implementation proved that leaching pits and septic tanks were already in
use in most areas where population densities were moderate or low and the
sanitation conditions were generally adequate. However, the same surveys also
found out that leaching pits were unsuitable in the target areas characterized
as kampungs with acute sanitation needs typically located where population
densities are high. Key obstacles which rendered much of the target area
unsuitable included shallow groundwater level, low soil permeability, high
flooding frequency, dependence on an unsuitable credit program for applicant
households and non-availability of space for the environmentally safe twin-pit
system of leaching pits (paras. 2.20-2.26). The efforts made in this component
in involving the community through their organizations and through the
participation of local non-governmental organizations were very successful in
community interest in the program but halped little to change the results of
the program.
Surveys carried out on the drainage program indicated that most of
the drainage problems in the project area, and by extension in Jskarta as a
whole are man-made. They were generally built undersize, and their
functioning is often hampered by encroachment from real estate developers.
There is a lack of effective enforcement of drainage regulations. The
problems of drains, however, are limited in the tertiary system which accounts
for 85% of the total length. More serious problems are found in the secondary
and primary drains. The drains are generally hydraulically deficient and many
require maintenance and cleaning. Meaningful improvement will require land
acqui.s5tion in already developed areas which will inevitably involve the time
consuming and sensitive problems of resettlement and compensation. In any
case, future programs to improve drainage in Jakarta will have to focus on the
drains with catchment areas greater than a hectare (paras. 2.30-2.32).
The findings and lessons learned from this operation are numerous
all pointing to the fact that the challenges facing the provision of
environmentally safe human waste disposal systems in Jakarta are enormous.
The various approaches which were being tested under this project faced severe
limitations leaving the project with little or no impact for the most part.
Sewerage which was new to Jakarta proved to be generally acceptable
to the target group in the project area (para. 1.40). Further work will be
needed to establish to what extent its coverage can be extended. On-site
sanitation program proved to be impractical where soil conditions were
unsuitable, and population densities were high. The community sanitation



iv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- iv -
facilities (MCK's) had low level of acceptability at the community. In
addition due to lack of space, they could not be built where sanitation needs
were most acute (para. 1.41). The drainage problems in Jakarta are largely
manmade, mostly having been built undersize and often rendered ineffective by
encroachment. Appropriate regulations and their enforcement will be needed to
bring about improvements in the drainage systems.
The pilot nature of this operation in a city as large as Jakarta calls
for caution in the way the conclusions are to be interpreted. In Particular
the lessons learned should be treated as tentative in providing generalised
solutions particularly for the on-site sanitation issues. Further work would
be necessary to confirm or prove otherwise any of the major lessons learned in
this operation.



PROJET&OMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
JAXARTA SEWERAGE AND SAMJTATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Prolect Identity
Project Name:                 Jakarta Sewerage and Sai tation Project
Loan No.:                      2236-IND
RVP Unit:                     Asia
Country:                       Indonesia
Sector:                       Urban
Subsector:                     Sewerage/Sanitation
Project City:                 Jakarta
Loan Amount:                  US$22.4 million
Disbursed:                    US$21.95 million
Canceled:                     US$.45 million
2.  Proiect Back,tutad
1.1       As measured by standard indices health conditions in Indonesia lay
behind those in other countries at a similar stage of economic development.
At the end of the 1970s, life expectancy in Indonesia was 54 years, compared
with the average for other low- and middle-income countries of 59 and 61 years
respectively. The average infant mortality rate was estimated at about 101
per 1,000 births compared to about 49 in the Philippines and TIailand, and 29
in Malaysia. Infant mortality as high as 200 per 1,000 births have been
reported in some areas. Endemic diseases, caused principally by a lack of
safe drinking water and adequate sewerage and sanitation were major factors
behind these statistics. Diarrheal diseases are a principal cause of
morbidity and infant mortality.
1.2       It was estimated that 40% of the urban population had access to
some form of reticulated water supply in 1981. Most of the water supply
suffered from contamination, low pressure and intermittent supply. A
considerable portion of the urban population does not have access to public
water supply, and is dependent on water from vendors, wells, streams or rivers
at considerable health risks. Only about 20% of the urban population has
satisfactory sanitation facilities. Jakarta, the national capital and the
most popular city in Indonesia, had a population of about 6.5 million and
growing at an annual rate approaching 4.5%. Only 50% of Jakarta's population
had direct access to reticulated water provided by Pam Jaya, a semi-autonomous
public water supply utility of DKI-Jakarta. The remainder of the population,
mostly low income groups, buy water from vendors, often at a cost in excess of



- 2 -
104 of household income, or obtain it from polluted rivers, springs or private
weils.
1.3       In 1972, Government of Indonesia (GOI) made a decision to prepare a
master plan for sewerage disposal in Jakarta which was to take into account
the entire relationships between sewerage, water supply, drainage and solid
waste disposal. A UNDP funded study was carried out by Nihon Suido of Japan
which completed the master plan in 1977.
1.4       The master plan recommended a phased construction of a conventional
water borne sewerage system, discharging untreated sewage into the Java sea.
The total cost was estimated at US$500 million (1976 prices), which was later
considered understated. The first phase to serve about 900,000 people in the
Setia Budi and Gambir areas in Jakarta was estimated at US$100 million. The
plan was considered extraordinarily costly aad apparently lacked justification
for the construction of a water-borne sewerage system and was eventually not
implemented.
1.5       In 1979, GOI and the Bank agreed to a different approach which
would include lower cost solutions in those areas where such options appeared
feasible. It was agreed that the approach would be a combination of sewerage,
drainage and sanitation works including on-site facilities with emphasis on
low-cost measures. In addition, initially a small pilot project testing these
options would be undertaken to gain experience which would later be replicated
elsewhere in Jakarta. GOI selected the Setia Budi area for the pilot project
and the consulting firm of Alpinconsult of Switzerland was selected to carry
out feasibility and engineering studies to prepare the project. The
consultants, financed from a Technical Assistance Loan (898-IND) and Urban III
Loan (Loan No. 1653-IND), completed preparation of the project in June 1982
and the Bank appraised the project later in the same year.
3. Project Objectives and DescriRtion
Project Objectives
1.6       During the formulation of Bank-financed KIP projects in Jakarta
which preceded this project, it was recognized that the provision of the basic
infrastructure in the most needy areas, which these projects were to serve,
would provide a first and minimum level of improvement in environmental
conditions. It was envisaged that a second level of improvement providing
better standards in water supply, waste disposal and sanitation would follow.
Thus the objectives of this project were clearly definea by the desire to meet
the public health safety and environmental improvement of a higher level of
services through a combination of conventional as well as nonconventional
sanitation options, providing better standards than those of preceding
operations under the KIP.
1.7       The main project strategies focussed on including the existing and
projected concentration of large commercial and industrial properties in the
project area for sewerage so as to increase the level of cost recovery of the
sewerage system and the direct involvement of the affected communities in the
selections of on-site facilities both for individual as well as communal use.



-3
As severage was going to be a new service, the need to make appropriate
institutional arrangements for futtue operation and maintenance, and for
financial administration and accounting was well considered at the conceptual
phase.
1.8       The principal objectives of the project were therefore defined as
follows:
(a) improve the envirormental and p.blic health conditions in the
project area to serve an estimated population of about 4n0,000;
(b) establish appropriate institutional arrangement,~ for the operation
and maintenance. and eventual augmentation of the sewerage system;
(c)  demonstrate the practical feasibility of low-cost and appropriate
technologies for Improved sanitation; and
(d)  contribute to the improvement of the technical operations and
management of Jakarta's water supply system.
1.9       The broader objective of the project lay in its catalytic role as a
Pilot whereby its successful experimentation in sewage disposal and sanitation
would be replicated in Jakarta.
PXo_lect Descrigtion
1.10      There was no water-borne sewerage system in Jakarta as early
initiatives on sanitation improvements included in the GOI Iampung Improvementy
Program (KIP), consisted of public facilities (iaraKS) which provide washing
facilities, toilets, public water taps, private septic tanks, leaching pits,
and solid waste disposal projects. At the time, sewerage projects were only
being initiated on a pilot scale In Bandung and Medan with assistance from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB).
1.11      The sewerage and sanitation project for Jakarta Included the
construction of a sewerage system, drainage works, sanitation components,
training and consultants services covering engineering, institutional,
technical and financial aspects.
(a)  The Sewerage Sstm.  The sewerage system development included
interceptors of about 7 km and related secondary and tertiary
s eweres of about 50 km covering the area believed to include most
existing and projected commercial and industrial sites with large
offices and high rise buildings, mostly along major roads in and
around the Setia Budi ponds. The development also included
construction of primary sewers of about 12 km in l4anggarai, and
conversion of the Setia Budi and pelati flood control ponds into
combined sewerage treatment and flood control ponds.
(b)  DrainAen Syntem ldrovement was intended to cover macro-drainage
works of about 4 km of cartcl and riverbeds, and the construction of
a new culvert under the Manggarai rail yard to relieve the flood



- 4 -
prone area of Tebet from monsoon flows from the Kali Bata (Bata
river). The component was :Aso intended to include micro-drainage
improvements cov3ring about 177 km of drains, and the construction
of 24 km of new drains.
(c)  The Sanitation Component.  This cisponert was intended to include:
(i)       construction of about 3,000 leaching pits in
predominantly low income areas with population densities
aighet than the average for Jakarua;
(ii)      provision of desludging facilities and sludge
transportation equipment, construction of sludge
thickening station, acquisition and preparation of sludge
disposal area;
(iii)     the construction of about 30 new public washing and
toilet facilities, i.e., MCK's, together with connections
to water supply and provision for sewerage and other
liquid waste disposal; and
(iv)      the rehabilitation and provision of about 100 public
water taps, including the laying of about 12 km of pipes
to connect existing and new water taps to a water source.
(d) Studies for Institution Development and Design and Supervision of
Works
Mi)       Institutional development studies for the sewerage
system, including the establishment of technical, (0&M
administrative) and financial management systems and
procedures, cost recovery mechanism, appropriate sewerage
entity and drafting of appropriate regulations governing
the use of the sewerage system;
(ii)      studies of the administrative structure and procedures,
and technical and financial operations of PAM Jaya and
other agencies which may operate the sewerage system;
(iii)     preparation of future water supply, sewerage and
sanitation projects; and
(iv)      studies of matters relating to Jakarta's water supply
system, including, but not limited to the supply of raw
water, its transmission, treatment, and distribution,
bulk and individual metering, and the extent of illegal
connections and detection of water losses, and the
preparation of feasibility studies for future projects.



-5-
4.   Proec  Ds    a         een     o  0      zati
Project Design
1.12      The basic concept in designing this project was to promote
comprehensive environmental improvements in one area of Jakarta through
investments in sewerage and sanitation. Emphasis was placed on the importance
of taking an integrated approach to reflect adequately the close
interrelationships among water supply, sewerage, sanitation, drainage, flood
control and solid waste management. But the Bank perceived from the outset
that the extent to which sanitation could be included in the project was
limited by a variety of reasons: (a) apparent lack of conviction by the
department of sanitary engineering (PLP) in Cipta Karya in the wo1rkability of
the sanitation program; (b) inadequate work of consultants who did not get
adequate guidance from CK; and (c) as was encountered in the KIP projects,
nonavailability of space/land in the Kampung, to include additional public
water kiosks and public and private toilets (MCKs and leaching pits).
1.13      The sewerage system - conventional water-borne interceptors and
related secondary and tertiary sewers, was selected in order to serve a
maximum number of customer connections with a minimum development of the
reticulation network. All effluents from the project area which flow into the
Banjir Canal which is a source of raw water intake to one of Pam Jaya's water
treatment plants at the time would be discharged to the two Setia Budi Ponds.
The ponds which were serving a flood control function would be equipped with
electrically operated aerators so that they could serve a dual function by
operating as sewerage treatment facilities as well. The effluents from the
ponds would be diverted to the Ke±L (river) Cideng, which discharges into the
Jakarta bay. The size of the sewerage system in the area was therefore
limited by the capacity of the treatment ponds determined to be 395 lps. The
project was designed as an interim sewerage solution for Jakarta and a pilot
to permit testing a number of human waste disposal theories and using the
experience to be gained for replication to other parts of Jakarta as well as
other cities in Indonesia.
Implementation and Organization
1.14      Implementation of the project commenced soon after the Loan became
effective on June 17, 1983, four months from the date of signing. However,
before long, unforeseen difficulties which hampered implementation emerged
quite rapidly, (para. 1.30) and after considerable delays the Bank became
seriously concerned about the progress. It soon became clear to the Bank and
GOI that the project implementation could not be returned to the original
schedule under the conditions prevailing then due largely to a serious
deterioration in physical progress and that as many months had passed without
noticeable progress, considerable reformulation of the project was necessary
in order to achieve at least some of the principal project objectives. By
August 1985, 26 months out of the scheduled 45 months of implementation period
had passed, but overall ph:- 'al progress had achieved no more than 7%
compared with 50% appraisal estimate. A revised scheme consisting of three
phases of the project was devised by the GOI/CK as an attempt to overcome the



-6-
implementation obstacles and lead to an attractive package of (a) an
operational sewerage and sanitation system, (b) a viable, competent, operating
sewerage s'ithority; and (c) a plan for future expansion. With the new
implementation proposal in mind, the GOI requested a three year extension of
the loan closing date to permit the completion of the revised scheme from the
Bank. The Bank granted a three year extension after a satisfactory review of
the Borrower's plan of actions, and the project's loan closing was thus
extended from March 31, 1988 to March 31, 1991 in annual increments.
1.15      To understand the difficulties that plagued the progress of the
project, it is imperative to examine how project responsibilities were
organized or shared between the key project implementing agencies - namely DKI
Jakarta, and D.G. Cipta Karya of the Ministry of Public Works.
1.16      In accordance with GOI's declared policy for decentralization of
central government responsibilities, both the Bank and GOI agreed that the
project's implementation responsib.Aities would be shared between Cipta Karya
and the DKI Jakarta provincial government in a manner which was prescribed in
a Memorandum of Agreement (MA) executed by both agencies, specifying their
respective responsibilities (para. 1.30). The MA called for CK to delegate
responsibilities to DKI while primarily remaining responsible for
coordination, overall control of the project, and reporting progress. In
response to this policy, CK set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a
project manager whose appointment was designed to be a joint decision of both
CK and DKI. In practice, however, evidence is scarce to suggest any process
depicting a joint effort between DKI Jakarta and CK as the PMU head was
responsible only to the latter. The day-to-day implementation activities were
assigned to a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Public Works Department
(DPU) of DKI headed by a project director who was also head of the DKI's
sanitation division. The PMU was supported by staff seconded from CK's
directorate of sanitary engineering (PLP), who reported to the PMU project
manager, and by foreign and local consultants for detailed design,
construction supervision, preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation, and
reporting and monitoring, also reporting to PLP. Several staff from DKI's KIP
Unit which was perceived to have had considerable experience in the
implementation of previous Bank-assisted KIP projects, were seconded to the
PIU too. But because of their other commitments, the project director as well
as seconded staff were unable to devote full time attention to the project.
In addition many difficulties were encountered in harmonizing the activities
betwveen the PMU which was mostly controlled by Cipta Karya and the PIU which
was under the overall purview of DKI Jakarta.
5.   Project Results
1.17      Measured against the stated objectives, the project results are at
I .st described as mixed. The institutional building objectives have
substantially been achieved. The project achievements in other areas are not
so apparent; on the contrary the shortcomings that were encountered during the
implementation have pointed to the enormous difficulties which surround the
prospect of replicating any features of this project in Indonesian urban
areas.



-7-
.  -
1.18      Because of the pilot nature of the project no attempt was made in
the SAR to quantify the economic beneZits that would accrue from a sewage
collection and disposal system. However, qualitative benefits such as
possible reduction in the incidence of water-borne diseases, infant mortality,
enhancement in the quality of life, and prospect for greater economic activity
were seen as important factors. As a proxy for an ERR the SAR determined that
the computed 5.4% financial rate of return (para. 2.4) of the sewerage
operation combined with other qualitative benefits were considered to be
satisfactory. The PCR made no attempt to quantify any economic benefits as no
meaningful data were available for an analysis of this kind. Furthermore, it
has not been possible, largely due to delays encountered in the on-site
sanitation program as well as in the sewerage component, to positively
identify any social and public health benefits which could have accrued to the
community as envisaged in the SAR. Although the sewerage system has been able
to achieve a financial break-even point, its limited coverage precludes it
from achieving any benefits beyond its current levels.
Institutional Objectives
1.19      A financially autonomous sewerage entity has been established under
the governor of DKI Jakarta. The sewerage entity code named PDPAL Jaya, headed
by a manager, is organized into three main functional divisions, namely,
maintenance, supervision and monitoring, and finance and administration
(Appendix A). The management and staff of the entity are appointed by the
governor of DKI in conjunction with the ministry of Home Affairs. The entity's
obligations are still evolving,but initially they include responsibilities for
operations and maintenance of current and future sewerage services in the
Jakarta area. The powers and responsibilities of PDPAL Jaya are embodied in
detail in a local government ordinance governing sewerage and waste water
disposal in the DKI Jakarta area. The tariff structure (Table 6(b)) whose
details are in the ordinance embodies a mechanism for a full cost recovery in
the longterm and fosters the financial viability of the sewerage entity. The
tariff mechanism which features notable cross-subsidy among categories of
customers is subject to periodic reviews and so far has met no apparent
resistance from the major customers. Under the JUDP II project, the Borrower
made an undertaking in the Loan Agreement that called for the sewerage
operation to achieve at least a break-even point on a cash basis in the short
run, and to contribute significantly towards future investments in the long
run. The sewerage entity has so far achieved its short-term objective of a
cash break-even point. At the comvletion of the project, the newly
established sewerage entity, PD PAL Jaya, was being readied to take over the
sewerage assets created under the project from Cipta Karya, the implementing
agency, and become responsible for the management of the sewerage system,
including customer connections, billing and operations and maintenance.
During the transition period preceding the establishment of the PDPAL Jaya, an
interim sewerage entity was established under Cipta Karya by a Minister's
decree. The interim entity, code named BPAL, continued to be responsible for
managing customer connections and administrative functions of the newly
created sewerage assets until the estimated handing over date of April 1, 1992
to the PDPAL Jaya. PDPAL Jaya is in its formative stage; it therefore remains
weak requiring proper staffing and training of new staff. It will, in the
meantime, continue to be supported through technical assistance which is
currently being provided under the JUDP II loan.



-8-
Severag  Cgmponen
1.20      After observing long and persistent delays in the project
implementation, the Bank and the Borrower re-evaluated the project; they came
to the conclusion that yielded the decision to aca'  down the scope of the
project to achieve a reasonable completion, and in early 1988 an agreement was
reached on a reformulated project consisting of two. stages. Stage 1 of the
reformulated project was determined on the basis of GOI's capability to
complete a reduced but fully functional sewerage system which would have no
worse than neutral environmental impact in the area. As a result of the
project reformulation, several schemes were deferred and a selected group of
these schemes were earmarked for assessment with a view to including them in
the next generation of similar projects. Stage 2 of the project consisted of
such components from the original project scope which were identified and
appraised as components of the on-going JUDP II Project, which was under
preparation at the time. The size of Stage 2 of the sewerage system, which
became components of JUDP IT project, was determined so as to increase the
sewered service area of Stage 1 to fully utilize the capacity of the two
sewage treatment ponds at Setia Budi and to enhance the financial viability of
PDPAL-Jaya by focusing on the service area where commercial properties are
concentrated. Although the original physical targets for construction were
not achieved in practically all components due to the problems which resulted
in the reformulation of the project scope, the somewhat limited objective of
completing a fully functional sewerage system with no worse than neutral
environmental impact, albeit small, was achieved.
Sanitation Comoonent
1.21      This component which consisted of constructing leaching pits,
communal sanitary facilities (MCKs) and public water taps through extensive
community participation was to be the key project instruments for providing
low-cost human waste disposal solutions to high-density and low income
Kampungs. As table 3(a) shows this program failed far short of its physical
targets and subsequently was assessed to have made no noticeable improvements
in the sanitary conditions of the area. The extensive involvement of the
community which was brought in at some stage of the implementation did little
to change the fundamental problems associated with this component particularly
in the high population density areas to which the program was especially
focussed. Despite this unsatisfactory experience, the on-site sanitation
program has been carried forward into JUDP III project, making it one of its
center piece program for community participation. The community participation
effort under this component focussed on health education campaign and
organizing communities into Sanitation Action groups. Local non-governmental
organizations were extensively used to inform the cormunity about the project
and its benefits. The community participation will save to be carried out in
more innovative ways than has been done under this project if the sanitation
program under JUDP III project is to achieve better results. A number of
prominent problems present themselves as being responsible for the
unsatisfactory results which could also impact adversely on the implementation



- 9 -
of these schemes under the JUDP III project. During the implementation it
became clear that a combination of obstacles which were not adequately
evaluated forced the project management to reduce the applications of on-site
sanitation technology in these areas to a fraction of previously determined
assessed sanitation needs (para. 2.20). Early surveys showed that leaching
pits were unsuitable in areas where population densities are high, ground
water level is shallow, soil permeability is below a specific standard, and
space for a twin pit system is not available. Other difficulties were
encountered in providing the small credit scheme under the project. The
success of the on-site sanitation program heavily depended on the willingness
of the households to apply for such credits offered through the Project
Implementation Unit. Under the credit scheme, households who applied for the
loan received the loan in either a completed facility constructed by the
project or construction materials paid for by the project on behalf of the
household. Many households who preferred cash loans did not build the on-site
facility on their property because the project agency was unable to provide
cash credits due to government regulations prohibiting transfer of cash to
individuals. To other households it was a question of affordability. The
average cost of a twin-pit latrine was in the Rupiah 350,000 to 450,000 range
payable over a five year period, which many households perceived as
unaffordable. As a result, far fewer than planned households applied for the
credit. The issue of a credit delivery system remains unresolved today even
as JUDP III project has entered the full implementation phase. Inevitably
implementation of this component will be adversely affected if this issue is
not resolved soon. In addition, even in the areas where such facilities as
l4CKs were built the usage by community was so low that the impact of such
units on public health safety in such areas remains questionable. To the
extent that some 700 leaching pits out of the 3000 originally planned were
constructed some of which with unacceptable design specifications, little
evidence has been documented to demonstrate any degree of success in achieving
project objectives under this scheme.
Drainage Component
1.22      The results of a drainage inventory and flood survey conducted
during the project implementation pointed to the fact that the problems with
flooding in the area are caused principally by undersized and poorlyt
maintained primary and secondary drains. The tertiary drains which comprise
85% of the total length of drains in the site were fo  . to have only minor
problems associated with clean up of solid wastes but krequently lack adequace
outlets for discharge. The solutions to the microdrains which are generally
characterized by too narrow call for construction of hydraulically adequate
channels and access for their maintenance, which inevitably involve difficult
problems associated with land acquisition and resettlement of people. In view
of the problems involved combined with cost escalations, the scope of the
drainage program was scaled down, and the required improvements in the revised
scheme which was constructed resulted in significantly reduced flooding in the
area. Many of the secondary and primary drainage programs, which were
deferred during the project reformulation, were considered good candidates
under the JUDP III project.



- 10 -
6.   Project Sustainability
1.23      The key issue about project sustainability centers on the
management of future operations and maintenance of the project facilities.
One of the achievements of this project is the establishment of a semi-
autonomous sewerage entity under DKI Jakarta.  IDPAL which is just coming  out
of its formative phase will be responsible for satisfactorily operating the
sewerage system (sewers, pumping stations, and stabilization ponds) using the
authority vested in it including the authority to charge and collect revenues
under the laws of DKI Jakarta.  The management of PDPAL is being strengthened
under the on-going JUDP II project, sewerage extension components. The
sustainability of the sewerage system is therefore dependent on how
effectively PDPAL will function in delivering sewerage service in the area.
1.24      The sanitation schemes built on private property are presumed to be
maintained adequately by the owners. However, in the long run desludging and
sludge disposal remain a city-wide problem. The MCKs were found to be well
maintained and clean, but appeared to be generally unpopular with the
communities with utilization as low as 30%. Often times the MCKs are managed
by the head of a kampung (RT/RW) who charges tariffs for use which are
generally not affordable by the community. Future application of MCKs as a
sanitation solution is becoming increasingly questionable in terms not only of
its high construction costs and unaffordable tariffs, but also in terms of the
impact on public health condition of the community. Often times discharges
from the septic tanks to which MCK effluents discharge, flow into the open
drains which most households in the neighborhoods use for human waste
lisposal.
7.      Environmental Asoects.
1.25      An important project objective at appraisal was to improve
environmental conditions and public health in the area. Sewage treatment
plants have always been associated with some adverse impacts on the nearby
surroundings namely odour, aerosols and noise. The treated sewage either has
a positive or negative impact on receiving water bodies depending on the
original level of pollution. The partial treatment of sewage in the Setia
Budi ponds, through oxidation using floating surface aerators provide
safeguards against foaming. However there may be occasional problems
associated with operations and maintenance of the treatment ponds occasioned
by the quality and quantity of the sewage which can result in some odour and
foaming. Such problems are not expected to exceed acceptable levels. The
water of the Kali (river) Cideng into which the waste water from the ponds is
pumped is usually heavily polluted and the improvement of the water quality is
therefore negligible considering that the sewage is only partially treated.
8.   Bank Performance
1.26      The Bank had recognized early that historically little attention
had been given to safeguarding and improvement of public health in Indonesian
cities. The government had chosen Jakarta as the location where the Bank's



- 11 -
initial efforts for appropriate sanitation/public health solutions were being
sought. The Bank took direct interest by recommending to GOI and supporting
the preparation of a master plan that would emphasize the inter-related
problems of drainage, solid waste disposal and sewerage in Jakarta.
1.27      The master plan recommended the construction of a conventional
waterborne sewerage system, serving part of Jakarta's population, with large
interceptors and several pumping stations, and discharginb all sewerage
untreated, in the Java sea through sea outfalls. The total cost was estimated
at US$500 million (1976 prices) to be phased out in three stages.
1.28      The Bank did not accept the major conclusions of the master plan
which emphasized a conventional waterborne sewerage on the grounds of non-
affordability, inadequate water supply in the area and the local habits which
were already adapted to the use of septic tanks and pit privies. The Bank
considered the master plan proposal was also highly costly for many areas
where it was perceived that lower cost nonconventional solutions appeared to
be feasible. The Bank and GOI chose a coordinated approach that would test
feasibility of appropriate sanitation technologies including non-conventional
sewerage, and on-site facilities to be followed by a major water supply
project. Against this background the project scope outlined in the SAR was
adopted as the basis for detailed preparation of the project.
1.29      The Bank appra.sed the project and deemed it the first modest step
in improving Jakarta's environmental conditions and public health of a
population of upto 700,000 in the area. However, it was later found out that,
this assumption of level of coverage used in the financial projections was not
supported technically and overlooked the hydraulic capacity limitation of the
Setia Budi ponds which can serve a population equivalent of only about
175,000. This discrepancy which was discovered during the project
implementation later forced the revision of the financial projection of the
sewerage service. Thus the sewerage schemes being constructedI under JUDP II
project is expected to provide for full utilization of the pond capacity after
completion of works, and the cost recovery level will be far lower than was
projected at appraisal due to the reduced size of population to be served.
1.30      In the 9 years covering the implementation period the Bank carried
out supervisions of about 19 staffweeks per year on average. This supervision
level is significantly higher than the recent staffweek allocations on similar
projects. But despite these modest supervision resources delays caused by a
variety of reasons continued to plague the project almost throughout the
implementation period (para. 1.32). In the course of the missions, for
instance, it was not uncommon for the Bank missions to leave differences of
views between them and project management unresolved which only exacerbated
implementation delays. In several instances aides-memoire left behind by
missions highlighted lack of progress on various aspects of the project, and
often suggested or recommended actions which the Borrower often found
difficult to interpret. For instance, in the case of the sanitation component
the Borrower expressed dissatisfaction with mission's decision to blame delays
on what it called project managements's conservative selection criteria for
sanitation sites and high rejection rate of credit applicants. The
implementing agency believed that the credit system criteria which it applied



- 12 -
were consistent with those provided in the guidelines for national strategy
plan for human waste and waste water disposal and could therefore not be
considered conservative. The differences between the views of the Bank
mission and those of the project management were often left unresolved for
considerable time after the issue of the aide-memoire. The project management
at one time was openly reluctant to following advice from the Bank which it
believed to be contrary to science, sound economics or Indonesian law; as a
result several single pit privies were built inside the homes in direct
conflict with established minimum design requirement of a twin-pit system with
an inspection chamber outside the house. It is clear that the Bank
performance in communicating its views with the Borrower about important
implementation issues has not been as effective as should have been.
9.   Borrower Performance
1.31      Both the Borrower and the Bank were deeply involved in the
preparation phase of the project and recognized the complexity of Jakarta's
human and solid waste disposal. But there were differences in the preferred
approaches to addressing these issues. The Bank had viewed that even though
the main focus of the project was on sewerage/sanitation improvements, the
water supply situation was critical in terms of overall shortage and the
dangerous water quality. However, in keeping its regional distribution policy
and social equity considerations, the government priorities did not include a
substantial water project for Jakarta at the time. The project scope, size,
and location were in keeping with the government's overall development
objectives for Jakarta.
1.32      Performance of GOI agencies during implementation was characterized
by persistent delays during the start-up phases which affected practically
every facet of the project, resulting in a substantial reduction of the
project and a completion lag of nearly 60%. Performance improved in the
latter part of the implementation period following the reformulation of the
project. The following issues ranging from project specific problems to the
broad country ones were in varying degrees responsible for the lion's share of
the delays.
(a)  GOI Procurement Procedures:
GOI performance in processing tenders and issue of requisite
permits to contractors, particularly for sewer construction works
was less than satisfactory. Tne average period between bid opening
and award of contract was as high as sixteen months in the
beginning; it tapered down slightly to as low as fourteen months
which was still in excess of GO's target of eight months for the
processing of ICB construction contracts. These delays were
further compounded by often unsatisfactory contractors performance
attributable to inexperience of contractor personnel, insufficient
or inappropriate equipment, and inadequate cashflow. Too often
instructions to contractors were conflicting causing revisions to
works which could have been avoided. Borrower's procurement
procedures could benefit immensely by improving contractor
prequalification procedures in order to exclude contractors who do



- 13
not have the right experience, capability and financial standing.
In addition, proper construction supervision would be necessary to
minimize unnecessary revisions of works which add to the project
cost.
(b) Shortage of CounterDart Funds
since 1985 the government experienced severe rupiah budget
constraints which affected all on-going donor financed projects in
the country. Often times payments to contractors for either
completed works or contracts mobilization were delayed which tended
to aggravate the tenuous cashflow situations of many contractors.
The shortage of counterpart funds forced the government and the
Bank to increase the Bank's share of financing for certain
expenditures to enable the Borrower to take the project out of the
implementation impasse.
(c) Weak Implementation Organization
The responsible implementing agencies of the Borrower, namely DKI
Jakarta, and Cipta Karya were assigned to collaborate and share
responsibilities, but this proved to be more difficult than had
been expected. The arrangements for sharing responsibilities
called for Cipta Karya and DKI Jakarta to cooperate, but the key
decision making powers regarding contracting of works which carried
great spending influence rested with Cipta Karya effectively
leaving DKI Jakarta with little incentive in the project. DKI
Jakarta's commitment to the project wavered as it felt left out in
the important decisions causing the project management to suffer
from inadequate personnel for most of the period. The role of DKI
Jakarta personnel in the implementation team was particularly
important for the sanitation component since DKI staff were
believed to have had previous experience with such schemes under
the implemented KIP programs in Jakarta. The sewerage and the
drainage program were mostly handled with the help of consultants
whc had adequate experience in such schemes but limited experience
with the on-site low-cost sanitation solutions.
(d) Institution Building Problems
The borrower's decision making process regarding the establishment
of an appropriate sewerage entity took much longer than had been
expected, largely because it was intricately diffused involving
Ministries of Public Works and Finance and the government of
Jakarta. In the effort to comply with a loan condition, Cipta
Karya (MNPW) established an Interim Sewerage Unit (ISU), code named
BPAL, under the Project Management Unit (PMU) which would take over
the sewerage facilities as their construction was completed.
However, the BPAL was without powers to make customer connections,
charge for sewerage services, or collect and retain revenues for
use in operations and maintenance of the sewerage system. DKI
Jakarta which is responsible for granting the BPAL powers to charge



- 14 -
and collect revenue from customers had not made the decision
because the BPAL was not yet an entity under its jurisdiction; the
Ministry of Finance was reluctant to permit BPAL to retain its
revenues because it was treated as part of an on-going project
under Cipta Karya and like other operating facilities while
construction is in progress, revenues generated by it are turned
over to the Ministry of Finance; and the Ministry of Public Works
was reluctant to provide operating funds for the BPAL once the
construction was completed at which time funding become DKI
Jakarta's responsibility. Considerable time was spent in
attempting to resolve these differences of view about the
establishment of the sewerage entity. In 1989, when the Borrower
submitted a request for a loan closing date extension, the Bank
made the closing date extension conditional upon the Borrower's
decision being satisfactory to the Bank for equipping the BPAL with
the requisite powers and on a definitive form of the sewerage
enterprise. The GOI complied with this condition, as an
appropriate institutional framework with the requisite powers was
agreed. The Bank granted a loan closing date as requested. The
delays encountered in the establishment of an appropriate sewerage
entity for Jakarta underpin the inherent difficulties projects with
local institution building as an objective face. Often times three
ministries are involved in addition to a beneficiary local
government of the project. Much preparation is needed in
coordinating respective roles of these ministries during the
planning, implementation, and handover of the project assets to the
local government to minimize problems at the implementation phase.
10. Project Coordination
1.33      Relationship between the Bank and key government agencies,
particularly the Ministries of Public Works and Finance and the government of
the special province of Jakarta (DKI Jakarta) were generally normal throughout
the course of the project. Under this project the Bank, Ministry of Public
Works and DKI Jakarta have been engaged in forward looking constructive
dialogue which not only generally guided project implementation but
complemented the efforts which were directed to the development of the next
generation of urban projects in the Jakarta metropolitan area. The
preparations of both JUDP II and III projects (on-going) especially benefitted
from the technical assistance provided under the JSSP.
1.34      At the implementation level the relationships between Bank missions
and the project management were not in harmony on several issues (para. 1.28).
The Bank missions continued falling back on an earlier perception formed
during the project preparation that the consultants to the project management
team had not been adequately encouraged by Cipta Karya to recognize the
appropriate emphasis on the on-site sanitation, in favor of the conventional
sewerage. On the other hand, the project management tended to view Bank
missions as overlooking the practical problems facing the implementation of
the on-site sanitation program and sometimes left aide-memoires which were
confusing. Overall communications effort between the Bank and the Borrowers



- 15 -
on this subject, in particular, and on the project as a whole were not as
effective as should have been.
1.35      Relationship between Cipta Karya and DKI Jakarta did not establish
the right environment for sharing responsibilities.  The Project Management
Unit (PMU), responsible to Cipta Karya and the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), responsible to DKI Jakarta were generally unable to coordinate work
between them; eventually as pressure to improve implementation was mounting
both from the Borrower and the Bank, the PMU assumed the bulk of the
implementation work except foL he customer connection which was carried out
by the PIU. As the eventual owner of the sewerage system DKI staff should
have been given substantial responsibilities for contracting and supervision
of the construction, which was for practical purposes carried out by Cipta
Karya appointed staff and Cipta Karya appointed consultants. DKI's lack of
interest in the sewerage system was probably responsible for part of the
project delays which were attributable to issue of construction permits. The
less than satisfactory relationship had made DKI Jakarta to require that the
sewerage system must reach a financial break-even operation before it can
accept to take it over for future operations and maintenance.
11. Consulting Services
1.36      As has been traditional for Bank operations in Indonesia,
consultants played a prominent role in all aspects of the project from
preparation through implementation. The spectrum of services consultants
provided or was expected to provide included: (a) project preparations
including for JUDP II and III projects, (b) detailed engineering designs, (c)
tender docume :ation and bid evaluations, (d) construction supervision, and
(e) progress report writing.
1.37      Although the performance of consultants was satisfactory, the many
delays in various facets of the project have contributed unnecessarily to the
perceptibly large share of consultant services in the overall project cost.
However there was one fundamental issue in the relationship between the
consultants and the project management that bears critical importance on the
quality of construction supervision.  For the most part consultant's role,
especially in construction supervision was relegated to giving advice to the
Borrower and assisting. It often fell short of taking specific responsibility
for the quality of construction as their responsibility often ended with
submission of a professional advice to the project manager. Instances of the
project management overruling consultants' recommendations against contractors
were not uncommon. For this reason in some instances the quality of
construction especially in the sewerage and drainage works may not have been
ensured by the supervision consultants who in this case did not have the
supervisory authority.



- 16 -
12. Project Documentation and Data
1.38      Records and data generated and maintained by GOI during project
implementation were generally adequate for assembly of the required inputs to
this PCR. These records were primarily maintained at the Project Management
Unit (PMU) and also with Cipta Karya. The Borrower's PCR was prepared with
help from consultants and presented in Part II of this PCR. The Bank received
quarterly reports of progress during the project implementation. These
reports and other related documents were used as inputs in the preparation of
this PCR.
13. Main Lessons and Issues
1.39      Lessons learned in this project from the Borrower's stand point are
presented in Part II of this report. The following statements supplement
those lessons in Part II, but also focus on a number of key areas which were
being tested in the pilot concept of the project and highlight some of the key
issues that remain unresolved.
AcceRtabilitv of Sew_erage
1.40      The idea of a sewerage organization with enabling powers to levy
charges for sewerage services was new in Jakarta and there was uncertainty
about public willingness to pay.
Lesso     Based on the experience so far gained under this project the demand
for customer connections which is also an indication of willingness
to pay for sewerage service as a means of human waste disposal has
shown that sewerage has a good potential in Jakarta. The demand
expressed through public willingness to pay for charges based on
the existing tariff rate and structure appears to exceed maximum
sewerage system capacity which will be available after the second
stage of the sewerage of JUDP II project is completed. The tariff
rate and structure were designed to take account of long-term
recovery of full cost of investment made in the sewerage system.
The extent to which sewerage can play a substantive role in
Jakarta's human waste and waste water disposal still remains an
issue under debate. Apart from the hig', cost of sewerage
construction which has an inverse bearing with service
affordability for customers there are unanswered questions
regarding treatment techniques which are environmentally safe and
where such treatment facility would be located. There is also the
question whether an ocean outfall as a means of raw sewage
disposal is a feasible proposition both from an environmental view
point and cost considerations. The Bank should continue
participating in the dialogue with the GOI on its current efforts
in exploring approaches for expanding sewerage service in Jakarta.



- 17 -
Potential for On-Site Sanitation
1.41      The leaching pit sanitation program under the project achieved far
less physically than had been expected. In the 1,800 ha project area
sanitation needs were assessed to be acute in one-third of the households.
However, due to a variety of reasons, including lack of space, soil
conditions, ground water conditions, etc. a maximum of about 16% of the
household sites in need were considered feasible for an on-site sanitation
facility. In addition, due to the high cost of construction many households
did not want to take credit for the facility. The actual number of sites
which were provided with on-site sanitation was far less than 10% of the
assessed needs. With regard to the communal facilities, the target numbers
for construction were in fact achieved, but the excessively high cost of
construction of these units undermined the consideration of this alternative
as a low-cost sanitation option. In addition, the MCKs were found not to be
popular with majority of the kampungs as a result their use was generally very
low.
Lessons:
(a) The scope for expanding the application of leaching pit on-site
sanitation facilities as environmentally safe means of human waste
disposal varies markedly with the population densities of the areas
considered. In the medium - to low population density areas of
Jakarta where availability of space is normally not a serious
problem many households already have some form of on-site
sanitation facility, frequently a septic tank or a twin leaching
pit system. In such areas efforts should continue to educate
communities about the health benefits in order to expand the
acceptance of such solutions where soil and other technical
conditions of the sites permit. However, in the low-income high
population density kampungs of Jakarta where space to build the
appropriate facility is often not available the scope for the
leaching pit system is very limited. Moreover,the construction
cost of leaching pits was found to be too high excluding many
households which would have otherwise considered the facilities.
Providing safe human waste disposal facilities in high population
density areas and where soil conditions, ground water level, and
other technical considerations are unsuitable xtmains a challenge
which will require experimentation with more innovative sanitation
options which have so far not been tested in Jakarta. The
application of a credit mechanism to such schemes did not achieve
the intended objective of facilitating the sanitation program
because the credit delivery was burdened by problems of its own. If
a credit mechanism should be used for these schemes in the future
its delivery system must not only be problem free but it must also
be proven to be widely accepted by the intended beneficiaries.



- 18 -
(b)  The MCK Program under this project and in Jakarta as a whole has so
far not achieved wide spread and meaningful level of community
acceptance for numerous reasons including non-affordability of the
community, and the fact that such facilities are often viewed by
individuals with negative attitudes as a public means of human
waste disposal in the kampungs even though sanitation needs are
acute. In addition, the high cost of construction experienced
under this project raise serious doubts about Mck's replicability
in Jakarta and elsewhere as a low-cost sanitation option. A recent
report !/ on public health benefits on MCKs found no evidence of
public health benefits from the use of MCKs established in
Indonesia. It is not uncommon to find some well used MCKs
discharge untreated wastes to the neighborhood environment creating
health hazards. However, limited application of MCKs with
potential health benefits can be justified for such specific
locations as market places, train stations, bus stations, schools,
and in such areas of the city where large number of transient or
homeless people dwell who have no possibility of access to private
facilities. Such public facilities will have to be maintained and
operated by a designated municipal or government agency to ensure
sustainability. Further application of the MCKs program,
particularly in the metropolitan locales which are characterized by
high population density and low-income communities must be
approached with sufficient caution, considering the following pre-
requisites in a descending order of their importance:
i) the community calls for it and space to build is available;
ii) it can be built within reasonably low construction costs;
iii) availability of water at the Mck is regular and adequate; and
iv) other technical and public health safety considerations can be
met.
1/   "Review of Sanitation Experience" November 1990 by Lauren E. Silver.



- 19 -
II. BORROWER'S EVALUATION !/
Introduction
2.1       Preliminary engineering for the JSSP began in July 1981, Loan 2236-
IND became effective in May 1983, and implementation continued through March
1991. During this nearly ten-year period, the project has been influenced by
many individuals, agencies, and outside circumstances. Given this situation,
it seems more appropriate to examine the JSSP in terms of issues and
experiences, rather than the performance of any one group or institution.
Such issues and experiences are numerous, but only those of importance and
future relevance to both the Bank and to GOI will be discussed here.
Sewerage Component. Conceptual
2.2       From JSSP documentation predating Loan Appraisal, it is clear that a
major reason for locating 3SSP at the selected site was a desire to reduce the
gross pollution of the Banjir Canal, hence the raw water entering Jakarta's
largest potable water treatment facility at Pejompongan. Towards this end,
the main features of the initial preliminary engineering designs were a sewer
network in Setia Budi, pumping stations, and an outfall sewer. During the dry
season, aerators in the Setia Budi flood control ponds would supply some
degree of pretreatment to the collected wastewater before it was pumped across
the Banjir Canal and discharged at a downstream point where it could no longer
enter the city's water supply. During the wet season, the wastewater would
bypass the flood control ponds and be discharged untreated. Although this
discharge of only partially treated and untreated wastewater was highly
undesirable, project finding constraints were such that this was seen as the
only technically feasible method to achieve the immediate removal of large
volumes of wastewater from the drinking water supply.
2.3       Prior to Loan Appraisal, this initial concept was modified in two
fundamental ways. First, a decision was made to add an additional 12 km. of
trunk sewers extending into Kelurahan Tebet/Manggarai to intercept the highly
polluted dry weather flows (sewage) in the rivers and drains which passed
through the JSSP area and discharged into the Banjir Canal; and, second, the
pumping stations and outfall sewer were deleted. All of the collected flows
were to receive treatment in the aerated lagoons before being discharged, via
the Kali Cideng siphon, at a point downstream of the Banjir Canal.
2.4       Subsequent consideration of costs, benefits, and the financial
viability of the new sewerage enterprise were based upon this revised project
description. The population equivalents (1 p.e.- 200 liters of wastewater per
day) to be served by JSSP were projected in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
~/   This part of the PCR was taken, unedited, from the borrower's report
received in the Bank in January 1992. The report was prepared with the
help of consultants, who were most familiar with the project during its
preparation as well as implementation, assisted the Borrower in the
preparation and implementation of the project.



- 20 -
as being 332,000 in 1987, 564,000 in 1991, and over 700,000 by 1996, the
increases to be achieved by progressive intensification of the sewerage
networks. Based upon these projections and affordability studies, it was
concluded in the SAR that JSSP would generate sufficient revenue to: cover
operations and maintenance costs, meet debt service requirements, and make a
small contribution to the funding of future investments. The FIRR over a
fifty-year period was calculated to be 5.4 percent.
2.5       However, through an apparent oversight, these projections did not
take into account the fact that the maximum flow for which even marginal
biological treatment could be achieved by the aerated lagoons at Setia Budi
was, and remains, on the order of 35,000 cubic meters per day, equivalent to a
population of only about 175,000.
2.6       This limited treatment capacity represented only 53 percent of the
requirement projected in the SAR for 1987 flows, 31 percent of 1991 flows, and
25 percent of those in 1996. The stated objectives of the JSSP sewerage
component, both technically and financially, were, therefore, unachievable at
the outset.
2.7       Physically, the project has now been scaled down so that the volume
of collected wastewater will not exceed the maximum capacity of the aerated
lagoons at Setia Budi. Financially, project goals have been revised to cover
only oyerations and maintenance costs.
2.8       Lesson Learned:  During preliminary preparation of any project,
initial concepts and objectives will change in response to competing interests
and needs and to the constraints of time and available funding. Special care
is required to insure that the technical, social, financial, and economic
aspects of a project remain internally consistent and mutually supportive
during this period of change. In cases where project objectives are dependent
upon future facilities, i.e., additional treatment capacity, interceptor
sewers, etc., these future requirements need to be clearly defined and taken
into account.
Sewerage Component. Implementation Delays
2.9       The date of loan effectiveness for loan 2236 was May 18, 1983.
Completion of works was scheduled fox March 31, 1987, and the original loan
closing date was March 31, 1988. A reduced program of project works was
completed on March 31, 1991, and loan disbursements ceased on August 14, 1991.
2.10      The JSSP was designated a pilot project because it included the
first major sewerage program in Jakarta. Although no new technological ground
would be broken, local experience with sewerage was limited, and the
institutions and the institutional arrangements required for sewerage
implementation had to be created from the ground up. In the early months of
JSSP, the project consisted of a single Project Manager without staff or
office.
2.11      Responsibility for the JSSP has been shared by the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) and the Government of DKI Jakarta (DKI). In practice, this



- 21 -
has meant that the interests and requirements of these two levels of
government, acting through their separate agencies, have, of necessity, been
addressed in all aspects of JSSP. The interests and requirements of the IBRD
have also been addressed. As might be expected, the harmonizing of these
various requirements has posed a major challenge to the JSSP Project
Management Unit (PMU) and has been a major cause of the delays in implementing
the sewerage component.
2.12      In the thirteen months following loan affectivity:  the Directorate
General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) had completed a reorganization
reflecting the increased importance of its activities in the environmental
sanitation sector, JSSP offices had been equipped and staffed, construction
contractors approved, and tenders for the first two sewer construction
contracts had been received on June 27, 1984. At this point, the
laboriousness of the contract approval and construction permitting process
became apparent.
2.13      This was particularly the case for sewer installation contracts
involving the construction of sewers in the streets of DKI. Of the seven
major sewer installation contracts undertaken by JSSP, the average period
between tender opening and the commencement of actual construction was more
than sixteen months. By project completion, this processing time has been
reduced to fourteen months, but was still in excess of the GOI goal of eight
months for the processing of ICB construction contracts.
2.14      In addition to the procedural delays, the time required to complete
works under construction contracts normally exceeded the periods specified in
the contracts. Six of seven major sewer installation contracts averaged 42
percent time overruns. There were numerous causes including: inexperience of
the contractor's personnel, insufficient or inappropriate equipment,
occasionally conflicting instructions to the contractors, revisions to works
in progress, and irregular cash flows.
2.15      An additional cause of project delay was the financial difficulties
faced by GOI in 1984/1985 during to falling international oil prices. After
the initial tenders in June of 1984, no new construction contracts were
tendered until February 1986, following an agreement with IBRD to use the
proceeds of Loan 2236 for 100 percent of the construction costs of certain
contracts.
2.16      Taken together, all of these delays resulted in an 8-year, rather
than a 4-year, implementation period, for JSSP and have had significant
negative impacts upon the project. Of these, the two most important are
1) that construction cost inflation exceeded initial allowances for price
contingencies and 2) technical assistance costs increased proportionally.
Lessons Learned:
(a) Delay is very expensive. Successful efforts to expedite contract
approvals and construction permits and to improve the administration
of construction contracts would prove to be very cost effective.



- 22 -
(b)  Unforeseen financial difficulties encountered by the Borrower can
result in project delays. A contingency funding plan might be
appropriate in future projects.
(c)  The implementation of major sewerage works should begin with the
treatment facilities and then proceed outward. In this way
connections, hence revenues, would begin at the earliest possible
time, and, in the event of delays, all completed works would be
operational.
Sewerage Component. Institutional Development
2.17      A major objective of the JSSP was the establishment of a sewerage
institution under DKI Jakarta. Achieving this objective was delayed in part
by rigorous institutional requirements and by the delayed implementation of
JSSP physical works. A major requirement for the creation of the permanent
sewerage institution was that its tariff revenues at least equal its
operations and maintenance costs. That requirement will be met this year, and
the sewerage institution, PDPAL JAYA, will be in place at that time. This
institution is still extremely weak, particularly in technical areas, and will
require considerable inputs if it is to assume a leading role in the
development of sewers in Jakarta.
Lesson Learned:
In sewerage programs where financial viability is dependent upon cross-
subsidies within the tariff structure and high revenue connections,
consideration should be given to initially assigning priority to the
implementation of the high revenue portions of the system.
Sanitation Component. Leaching Pits
2.18      The JSSP contained a largely experimental program to introduce on-
site sanitation solutions into an existing highly urbanized environment.
Three thousand twin leaching pit units were to be constructed in the site.
Actual accomplishment fell far short of this goal. Some of the difficulties
encountered and the reasons for this shortfall are discussed below.
2.19      The JSSP site covers approximately 1,780 hectares with a resident
population of about 460,000. The gross population density of the site is
therefore 258 persons per hectare (pph). The site is sub-divided into 15
Kelurahan with gross densities ranging from 54 to 559 pph. These Kelurahan
are further sub-divided into 154 Rukun Warga (RW) with gross densities from 23
to more than 1,000 pph. The RW's are sub-divided into more than 1,500 RT's
with a very wide range of population densities. The correlations between low-
_.come, high population density, lack of access to piped water, and lack of
sanitation facilities were clearly observed during the project.
2.20      After an initial false stert in which it was found that the selected
working area had largely impermeable soils, percolation tests were made
throughout the site and a house-to-house survey of all dwellings was made to
determine total sanitation requirements within JSSP. It was found that of the



- 23 -
approximately 75,700 total buildings, about 11,350 had no sanitation
facilities of any kind. An additional 11,700 had unsafe facilities--commonly
a toilet directly connected to an open drain. Altogether, approximately
147,000 JSSP residents (32 percent of the total) lacked safe sanitation
facilities.
2.21      As a first step toward selecting working areas most favorable for
on-site leaching systems, the collected survey data was screened following
draft guidelines prepared by the UNDP for use in Indonesia. All Rukun Warga
with gross population densities in excess of 500 pph were excluded from
further consideration. Implementation was then begun in the less dense RW's
where soil permeability permitted a long term application rate of at least 5
liters per square meter per day.
2.22      Implementation resumed, and within a short time a few hundred units
had been constructed. But it quickly became clear that there was a serious
shortage of buildable sites. Within the screened, lower density RW's, the
needs for sanitation facilities were located predominantly in sub-communities
so densely developed that there was no outdoor space available for the
construction of leaching pits.
2.23      A second house-to-house survey was made in the lower density RW's to
determine how many permanent homes with a sanitation requirement actually had
a site available for the construction of a leach pit. The results were that
only 23 percent of these homes had a buildable site.
(It should be noted that the objective of the second survey was to identify
potential sites for the construction of leaching pits under the JSSP program.
Residents of temporary housing were not eligible for the JSSP credit program,
and were not included in the second survey. Approximately 10 percent of the
homes in the area covered by the second survey were classified as temporary.
By observation, most of these temporary houses would not have had a site for
the facilities.)
2.24      Following the second survey, investigations into the feasibility of
communal leaching facilities were undertaken. Five communities expressing
keen interest in improved sanitation were mapped and studied in detail. A
buildable site was found in only one of the five, and it could not be used
because of property ownership issues.
2.25      Ignoring all other factors except site availability, the JSSP
experience with leaching pits could be extrapolated as follows:
Total Sanitation (32 percent)                    23,050 units
RW Density > 500 pph (37 percent)                (8,525) units
Transierts (10 percent of remainder)             (1,450) units
RW Density < 500 pph but without
suitable site (77 percent of remainder)        (9,410) units
Total Fundable and Buildable                     3,665 units
As percentage of sanitation need                   16 percent



- 24 -
2.26      Additional difficulties, particularly housing demolition associated
with land redevelopment in the site, further reduced the number of buildable
on-site sanitation units. At the end of JSSP, only 778 units had been
processed. The average cost was approximately Rp 435,000 (US$225) per unit,
or about US$36 per capita. The units constructed were so widely disbursed
that no public health benefits are anticipated.
Lessons Learned:
(a) Unless land use is extremely homogenous within a given area,
population density is a misleading indicator of the future success
or failure of on-site sanitation programs. Within JSSP, the
greatest needs for improved sanitation were in the lower-income,
higher-density neighborhoods where it was not possible to achieve
any meaningful public health benefits because insufficient land was
available for the construction of on-site facilities. In
communities where sufficient land was available, such facilities
were most often already in service, and there was little need for
improvements.
(b) The question of an appropriate response to the saniitation problems
of high density communities is still unresolved. An intensive
effort to resolve this question definitively is needed if the
benefits of improved sanitation are to be extended to the
lower-income portion of the urban population.
(c) With lower-income communities, public awareness of sanitation
problems was quite high, and the community was very willing to
participate in any workable program toward the solution of these
problems. The potential importance of community based programs for
sanitation cannot be overstated. In this regard, cash credit
programs, which are not presently permitted by law, might prove
helpful.
(d)  Physical factors such as soil permeability and depth to the ground
water table require careful evaluation before sites for on-site
sanitation are selected.
Sanitation Component. Public Toilets
2.27      The JSSP also included the provision of public bathing, laundry, and
toilet facilities (MCK's). Actual accomplishment exceeded that called for in
the SAR, and MCK's providing a total of 256 toilets were constructed. Site
acquisition costs average Rp 330,000 (US$170) per toilet seat provided.
Building construction costs, including the bathing and laundry facilities,
average Rp 1,100,000 (US$565) per toilet seat. The cost of connecting city
water to tLe MCK's averaged Rp 3,625,00 (US$1,860) per toilet seat. The total
cost was therefore Rp 5,055,00 (US$2,595) per toilet seat provided.
2.28      In 1989, a small sample survey of MCK usage was conducted.  The
residents of the ten homes nearest each of eighteen randomly selected MCK's



- 25 -
were interviewed about their use of the facilities. Although too small to be
definitive, the survey indicated that the public toilets were actually being
used something less than 30 percent of the time for sanitation purposes. The
reason most often given was that the entrance fees of Rp 100 per entry were
too high.
Microdrainage Comtonent
2.29      The physical objectives of the JSSP microdrainage component included
the construction of new drains and the rehabilitation of some existing minor
drains. Early in the program it became clear that while areas which flooded
could be readily identified, the causes of that flooding and appropriate
solutions were not easily determined by observation alone. Accordingly, it
was decided to undertake a pilot microdrainage planning program within JSSP to
serve as a model for such programs in the remainder of Jakarta and in other
Indonesian cities.
2.30      Because accurate planimetric and topographic maps were not
available, a drainage survey was made. Approximately 660 km of drains were
examined, and 100 km of the larger drains were surveyed in detail and
assembled into a computerized hydraulic model. All microdrainage deficiencies
and their solutions were identified and a report with recommendations was
issued. Designs were prepared, and improvements constructed based upon the
findings of the microdrainage study.
Findings Included
(a) The major drainage problems within JSSP were man-made obstructions,
including undersized drains. Housing and other real estate
development activities within the site are creating obstructions at
a far more rapid rate than remedial measures can be implemented.
Effectively enforced drainage regulations are needed.
(b) The microdrainage problems within JSSP were concentrated in the
larger microdrains. Only limited problems were found in the
tertiary drains which comprise about 85 percent of the total length
of drains in the site. In those areas where the larger microdrains
were adequate, the tertiary drains were being cleaned and maintained
by the communities without outside inputs. From this it is
concluded that future programs would most profitably focus on the
larger microdrains, beginning with an evaluation of existing
deficiencies. If JSSP is typical, programs focused on small drains,
those with catchment areas of less than 1 ha., would be ineffective.
(c) Current aerial photographs to a reasonable scale with superimposed
and accurate topographic contours are essential to a cost effective
microdrainage program.
Macrodrainage Component
2.31      The implementation of the JSSP macrodrainage component was inhibited
by serious difficulties in acquiring sufficient land to construct the



- 26 -
improvements. Major drains in Jakarta are frequently too narrow, with
existing housing along both banks of the channel. Under these circumstances,
the construction of a hydraulically adequate channel and access for
maintenance requires that property be acquired, buildings demolished, and
people relocated. Such land acquisition is a sensitive and time consuming
activity.
2.32      In response to the difficulties, the JSSP macrodrainage program was
revised. The proposed major culvert under the Manggarai Railroad Yard was
replaced by the reconstruction of an existing diversion channel within the
existing channel right-of-way. Instead of reconstructing approximately 2.5 km
of the Kali Bata, only the worst 500 meters were reconstructed, requiring
considerably less land acquisition. The original objectives were largely
achieved. These improvements significantly reduced the frequency of flooding
locally, decreased the duration of flooding in other portions of the basin,
and provided an outlet for future improvements upstream.
Lesson Learned:
Right-of-way acquisition is probably the most difficult problem facing
urban drainage programs. Continued efforts are needed to provide
mechanisms for more timely land acquisition.



- 27 -
III.  STATISTICAL  IN.EQ=MA&II
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan No. &
Project        Year of     Purpose of
Title          Approval    Project            Status           Comments
Ln 1653-IND     1979       Urban              Completed        Project achieved
Urban III                  Infrastructure                      objectives
Ln 1972-IND     1981       Urban              Completed        Project achieved
Urban IV                   Infrastructure                      objectives
Ln 2816-IND     1987       Urban              Completed        Project
USL I                      Infrastructure                      subtantially
achieved
objectives
Ln 3219-IND     1990       Urban              Under            Satisfactory
JUDP II                    Water Supply       Implementation
and Sanitation
Lxn 3246-IND    1990       Urban Community   Under             Experiencing
JUDP III                   Infrastructure    Implementation   Delays



28 -
,INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEaERAGE AND SANITATION PROJCT
(Loan_No. 2236-IND)
Table 2(a): Lgan Disbursement
---  (US$ million^------             Actual as %
Bank FY   Semester Ending       SAR Estimate         Actual           of Estimate
1983      December 1983              1.1              0.2                18.2
1984      June 1984                  2.2              0.2                 9.1
December 1984             5.6              0.3                 53.6
1985      June 1985                 10.1              1.7                16.8
December 1985            13.4              2.4                 17.9
1986      June 1986                 15.7              3.6                22.9
December 1986            17.9              4.6                 25.7
1987      June 1987                 20.2              6.5                31.7
December 1987            22.4              8.8                 39.3
1988      June 1988                                  10.5
December 1988                             12.6
1039      June 1989                                  16.3
December 1989                             16.8
1990      June 1990                                  19.2
December 1990                             20.0
1991      June 1991                                  21.7
August 1991                               21.9
CANCELLED                                  0.5
22.4



25-0   -                   II     A                             |t
A   1O- r-F    X   lel    -  ---1--  ---1/ /  I         I        1   W }~~~~~~~~~~I It
_  .     _,8@ ~ ~___.__.  _. -6                                               * _ _       _. 
s.e~~~Is -                             I /   Lan  236 IND-
5-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_ . __   ,  2.'-- ._  0-* ibusrlrt 
I/ ~ ~ M
10   3  8      4258                 B  87  8               B9  90 8S
/  ----   -4 --Loan  2 Mon th
;z7                         I .-                 Disbursements
5- 12  84  12-  6   12   6   12  6   12   6   12   6 12   6   12           8
83  83  84  54  85  85  66-   6   -   7    -  88f  8j  89  906  90    91
End  of Monthi



- 30 -
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan No. 2236-IND
Table 3(a): Project Results Summary
Monitoring Indicators
Components                                    Appraisal       Results
Sewerage Component
Setia Budi:
-  Primary Sewers (km)                                 7           4.8
- Other Sewers (km)                                   50          20.7
Manggarai Extension:
- Primary Sewers (km)                                 12           2.4
- Other Sewers (km)                                    -          19.8
Drainae ComDonent
- Macro-Drainage (km)                                  4           2.0
Micro-Drainage:
- Rehabilitation (km)                                177
- New Drains (km)                                     27           9.3
Sanitation Component
- Leaching Pits (no)                                3000           778
- MCK's (no)                                      30/240 *      80/256 *
-  Public Water Taps (no)                            100             30
monind . tab
* Toilet seats



JAKARTA aI:hERAGE & SANITATION PUOJEIT
P'ROPIERTY LONNECT I ONS AS I NSTALLEDI
GROUP 1,11 AND III
:                   2Nudbr of Inspection Chambers                 Length of l'roperty Connections                    a
I Description        Nouse a                                                  (otres)                    -
Co"ercial Hi-rise    Total          100 am   t 50 m          200 ao       250 am      300 no
t                   a          *          a          a            *            *           *            *            0
e                   S          S          S          *            a            *           *            *            a      ,
a   Paciage I             4062                   406        1,754'      -            -     ,      -     ,     -      ,
Package  2                laI                    lea        a82
e Package 3       i     530,        21 i      551 i      1,967           48i       -     j     -      ,     _     '      o
Package 4       :     366         11        377        1,619:          16        ---* 
Package 5               27               2    7          199           23-       -           -      a
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- a  *.
S Package :           473                   473 :      11  ,5          48:       -           -            -
Packagie 12            159                    Ise       1,055            9                       
*                   I          I         *           *            6            5           5           *             5
Package 14            3796           :      3?9        2,6194          86        -           -     :      -                w
Package 15      '     499                   4g         3,09            23       _
rZkace le                         22         22        _     :(inciluded in ijackintg pipes)
a                   a          a         *a          *            a            a           a            a            a
T  otal:                                       
8etiabudi  t1,990    : 54   :2,044 :              8, 142          87            0            -0 0
laggaerai       1,036:        0:    1,036         6,633           97                  0:                 0 
T 0 T A L        3,026        54   :3,080  :    4e,77             1ax            o                        0 
toW l::
S etiabudiN2,!



- 32 -
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan No. 2236-IND
Table 4(a):  Protect Costs and Financing Summary
... in $ million----
SAR                      Actual
Cost             &                         & OSt  %
1.   Project Investments:
Sewerage                       27.0              72        22.1           67
Drainage                        4.1              11         2.5            8
Sanitation                       2.4              6         2.1            6
T.A. and Training                3.6             10         5.9           18
Front End Fee                   0.2               1           .2           1
TOTAL COST                      37.3            100        32.8          100
2.   Financed BY:
World Bank Loan                 22.4             60        21.9           66
Government                      14.9             40        10.9           33
TOTAL                           37.3            100        32.8          100
procost . tab



- 33 -
Table 4(b): Project Costs Summary
FINAL REPORT
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOAN 2236-IND
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(AS USD)
SAR                         Actual
---------------------------------------------------------
Component           Local   Foreign   Total         GOI     IBRD     Total
---------------------------------------------------------
US$ thousands                 US$ thousands
Sewerage Service
- Land acquisition                820        0      820          563        0      563
- Civil works                   7,300    7,580   14,880        5,907    6,660   12,567
- Plant and equipment             250    2,450    2,700        1,396    4,102    5,498
- Engineering                     350      530      880         .163    3,322    3,485
- Contingencies                 3.930    3.850    7.780            0        0        0
Sub-Total        12,650   14,410   27,060        8,028   14,084   22,112
Drainage :
- Land acquisition                 10        0        10         209        0      209
- Civil works                   1,750      760    2,510        1,260      505    1,765
- Plant and equipment               0       40       40            0        0        0
- Engineering                      65       65      130            0      323      323
- Contingencies                 1.030      410    1.440            0        0        0
Sub-Total         2,855    1,275    4,130        1,469      828    2,297
Sanitation Component
- Land acquisition                360        0      360           50        0       50
- Civil works                     460      340      800          989      413    1,402
- Plant and equipment              50      410      460           11      100      111
- Engineering/Community            40       20       60            0      540      540
- Contingencies                   400      300      700            0        0        0
Sub-Total         1,310    1,D70    2,390        1,050    1,053    2,103
Institutional Development
& Preparation of Future
Projects                        950    2.650    3.600          105    5.815    5.920
Front-end Fee                       0      167       167           0      167      167
Total Project Costs            17,765   19,572   37,337       10,652   21,947   32,599



- 34 -
Table 4(c): Project Costs Summary
JSSP Technical Assistance Costs Detail
US Dollars
BPAL Consultants                                              963,813
Financials Audit, and Environmental Impact                    181,136
PDAM Consultants                                            2,127,952
JUDP II Consolidation                                         313,795
JUDP II SP-4 Preparation                                      233,000
J.UDP III Preparation                                         250,000
Microdrainage I (Inventory, Analysis, Training
Preliminary Designs for Future, and Works Designed,
but Deferred to JUDP II.)                                 495,203
Design of JUDP II and Other Deferred Works                  1,100,000
Management Assistance by CRE (10% of time)                    150,000
Sub-total              5,814,900
Sanitation
Engineering                                                    50,000
Community Programs, NGO, & Program Management                 290,000
Sanitation PIU Budget                                         200,000
Sub-total                540,000
Drainage
Microdrainage II, including macrodrainage works               323,190
Sewerage
JSSP I Design and Construction Support                      3,321,768
Total C6st of TA                                         9.999.858.13



* 35 -
INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
{Loan No. 2236-IND)
Use of Bank Resources
Table 5: Staff and Consultant Innuts
Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual No. of Seaffkeeks
Through Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .   82.8
Appraisal through Board Approval   . . . . . . . . . . .   41.1
Board Approval through Effectiveness   . . . . . . . . . .  8.6
Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  169.5
B. Missions
No. of  Days       Specialization    Performance       Types of
NontzYYear         gersons  in Field Represented   1/ Rating Stat  2/  Problems 3/
Through Appraisal:
July 1980             2         14          FNA                1
September 1980        2         10          FNA,CON            1
Appraisal through
Board Approval:
March 1981            3          4          FNA,CON            1
July 1981             2         16          CON                1
November 1981         3         19          FNA,CON            1
March 1992            2         10          MNG,FNA            1
July 1982             3         19          FNA,CON            1
Supervision:
February 1983         2          9          MNG,FNA            2            M/T
December 1983         2          9          FNA                2
March 1984            6         10          CON                2
July 1984             2          7          FNA                2
October 1984          2         27          MNG,FNA            2
July 1985             2         14          FNA                2
October 1985          3         18          MNG,FNA            2
June 1986             3         14          NNG,OPO            2
March 1987            2          7          MNG,CON            2
June 1987             7         10          MNG,CON,FNA        2
December 1987         2         10          MNG,FNA            2
March 1988            3          7          NNG,FNA,CON        2
July 1988             3         20          NNG,OPO            2
March 1989            2         14          MNG,SNG            2
July 1989             2         10          MNG,SNG            2
November 1989         3         14          NNG,FNA,CON        2
March 1990            2          8          FNA,CON            2
June 1990             3          7          FNA,CON            2
November 1990         3         15          FNA,CON,OPO        2
February 1991         2          5          FNA,OPO            2
2/  ECO - Economist; FNA - Financial Analyst; MNG - Municipal Engineer; UPN
- Urban Planner; CON - Consultant; OPO - Operations Officer
.2/ 1 - Problem-Free or minor problems; 2 - Noderate problems; 3 - Major
problems
]/  M - Management; T - Technical



- 36 -                             Annex 1
FINAL REPORT
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOAN 2236-IND.
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
_________--- -___      __________________________________________________________
Section     Loan agreement        Status                   Remarks
reference
3.01 (a)   Project execution   Completed       All  Stage  One  works   have  been
efficiency                          completed.
3.01 (b)  Coordination among  Completed.       Coordination   and cooperation  be-
DKI and CK          To continue     tween DKI and CK is evident  in the
in JUDP II.     completion  of  JSSP Stage I, plan-
ning of JSSP Extension under JUDP
II, and in sewer system operation
and maintenance.
3.01 (c)   Establishment of    Completed
project management
and implementation
units
3.02       Engagement of con-  Completed.      (a) Aipiconsult/Encona  continue to
sultants satisfac-  To continue         provide   Technical  Assistance
tory to Bank        in JUDP II.         for:
a.1 JSSP Stage I Completion
a.2  Planning  and   Design  of
JSSP Extension.
(b) The Contract Amendment No. 1
covered JSSP Stage I through
March  1989.   Amendment  No. 2
Provided TA through March 1990
for JSSP I Completion & limited
design of SP-4. Amendment No.
3 continued services until the
loan closing date of 31 March
1991.   Consultant's   services
for JSSP Extension continue on
basis of Cipta Karya letter of
intent issued in March, 1991.
3.03       Insurance of        Completed
project goods



- 37 -
Section     Loan agreement         Status                     Remarks
reference
3.04 (a)   Documents  review   Completed         Bank  was  informed,  on a  regular
by Banks                             basis,  of   action,  changes   and
adjustments  relating   to  Project
Implementation.
3.04 (b)   Project record       In progress      See 3.04 (a)
keeping and
reporting
3.04 (c)   Publication of       Completed        No IBRD  objection  to publications
award                                of award.
3.04 (d)   Project completion  Completed         Closing  date March 31, 1991.
3.05       Land acquisition    Completed         No  outstanding  land   acquisition
issues at this time.
3.06       Formal agreement    Completed         Agreement  made  and  signed  on 06
between Cipta                         April 1990.
Karya and Water
Resources for
joint use of
flood control
ponds.
3.07 (a)   Completion of        Completed        Studies  considered  complete.
sewerage and
water supply
institutional
studies by Dec.
21, 1984
3.07 (b)   Discuss study        Completed        Recommendation  reviewed   February
recommendation                        1988.
with Bank by
June 30, 1985



- 38 -
Section     Loan agreement         Status                     Remarks
reference
3.07 (c)   Cause agency to      Revised          The  Interim  Organization   is  in
operate sewerage                      place at the  Workshop  and  Office
system by April                       facilities in Setiabudi.  Organiza-
01, 1986                              tion  Development  work and policy/
procedure reviews continue.
Physical connection of properties
to the sewer system initiated in
March 1989 and continues.
BPAL workshop office is completed.
Maintenance   equipment  now  being
delivered. Structure and level of
tariffs have been approved.
Process to covert BPAL to PDAL to
continues and will be completed
prior to December 31, 1991.
Treatment ponds are now in opera-
tion.
4.02 (a)   Borrower to main-   Complied          FY 88/89 audit complete.
tain financial                        FY 89/90 audit complete.
records and                           FY 90/91 audit pending.
accounts
4.02 (b)   Provide audited      Complied         See 4.02 (a).
accounts finan-
cial information
to Bank
4.03 (a)   Sewerage system      Revised          Tariff   structure    designed   to
to achieve cost                       achieve recovery of O&M costs.
recovery
4.03 (b)   Sewerage charge      Revised          The  financial projection used  for
structure to be                       sewerage tariff evaluation  assumes
reviewed at 2-                        a tariff review every three years.
year intervals
4.03 (c)   Surplus funds to    Revised           See. 4.03(a) and 4.03(b).
be applied to
sewerage system
development
4.04 (a)   Project agencies    Complied          GOI guarantee to replace  assets is
to carry adequate                     considered implicit.
insurance



- 39 -
Section     Loan agreement         Status                    Remarks
reference
4.04 (b)   Project agencies    Complied          Performance continues.
to be competent
4.04 (c)   Project agencies    Complied         O&M  Chief in  Place  in as part of
to carry out                         initial ISU Staff (See 3.07 (c).
effective oper-                      Overseas  training  of selected O&M
ation and main-                      personnel  completed . Maintenance
tenance                              equipment   delivery  and  operator
training complete.



- 40 -
Table 6(a): PD. PAL JAYA: Financial Information
.-----1990-          ----_--1991  Forecact    --------
Custom2r ConneaSiMns
Customgr,          SU    Oct   Ncv   Dec   JM    Z          Ma    hr   Ma    Ju
Rooidontal          96S   965   965   96S   965   965   965   965   965   96S
Riqh Rise            7      7     7      7      7      7     1S    16    17    21
Customer Connections
Jul   AM    haE   2=    AL2Z   Dee   Jan   Feb   mar
Residential         965   965   965   965   96S   965   965   965   965
Hiqh Rise            2S    27    30    30    32    37    37    37    37
BPAL's current and future revenue performance is as follows (in Rupiah
Millions) based on foregoing customer connections:
_--1990-- - - -- -                     --1991---       
R e v e r a e s
{Custoaes          §AM  OCt   Nov    De        an   Feb   Mar   Ao        !Yav   lur
Residential         -       -    2.1   1.2   1.2   1.2   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.8
High Rise           -      -      -    11.6  11.6  11.6  12.1  12.9  13.9  19.5
Other                            1.8   1.8   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.6   2.6   3.2
Total                            3.9   14.6  15.2  15.2  16.9  17.9  :a.s  25.5
0 a 8                            29.1  21.9  37.0  37.0  32.7  40.8  40.9  41.7
Surplus (Subsidy)               (25.3)(17.4)(21.71(21.7)(15.7)(22.9)(21.9)(16.0)
---1991--------------------          --1992-----
Jul   Auc   Soo   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Fe-j   mar
Residential         2.8   2.8   2.9   2.9   2.9   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.i
Hiqh Rise           25.1  29.7  30.7  31.8  31.8  37.1  46.3  46.2  46.3
Other               3.8   4.3   4.4   4.4    4.4  5.1    6.0   6.0   i.0
Total               31.7  36.8  38.0  ;9.1  39.1  45.5  5;.o  55.i  5;.i
0 S 8               42.3  43.3  43.5  43.7  43.9  44.5  45.6  45.7  45.2
Surplus (Subsidy)10.6) (6.5) (5.4) (4.4) (4.5)  1.0  10.0   9.9  :0.3
Expected SEP



- 41 -
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan No. 2236-IND
Table 6(bl: Tariff Structure to PD. PAL JAYA
Block I        Block II        Block III       Block IV
Customer Category   Basic lariff   Basic Tariff   Basig Tagiff   asic Tariff
DOMESTIC                     35A
COMMERCIAL (Large)             A               3.85A       5.25A          5.6A
COMMERCIAL (Small)             A               l.lA        1.4A           1.5A
INDUSTRIAL                     A               l.lA        4.2A           4.3A
SOCIAL                         A               l.lA        1.7A           1.8A
The billing rate & was determined initially to be Rp 40/ml across the tariff
blocks for each customer category.



PUPA JAV   -          l131?m*LSUJ?E
OZI JAZA3tTA  
ZIZEZY~~~~~~
0AL1 JAUV
Ct       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~a IEAMU*U IIISO j                                       93*0 CISWUVISIO DVI
hugE_-                                         l*1*03 6                          11*8 01        CONC-       VAM
,L, ,;;h  ,L,   1                            1~~~~~~~~~UCIO  510115&  HAMNG T &n  FO.fC
53013 a       AMR-            MAUION IbRAW P                                                         II STOMI?ta t  W3Ut*
swim                          Umill-                                        X131-  C  3 S UlTm
6tM10M                    SU.EUVIS-
S.CTnI                    InS
SCTION



