Document of
The World Bank                    _
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3394-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
January 12, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1           = Rp 660
/                          RplOO          = US$0.151
Rp 1,000       = US$1.52
Rp 1 million  = US$1,515.00
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)               =  0.04 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (f)
1 kilometer (km)                =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)           =  10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 hectare (ha)                  =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =  0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                     =  0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =  35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Board
Cipta Karya  -  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development
DKI-Jakarta  -  Daerah Khusus Ibukota - Jakarta City Government
DSE           -  Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
JICA          -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
JMDP          -  Jakarta Metropolitan Development Plan
KIP           -  Kampung (neighborhood) Improvement Program
PAM Jaya      -  Perusahaan Air Minum - Jakarta's Public Water Supply Utility
PIU           -  Project Implementation Unit
PWD-DKI       -  Public Works Department of DKI - Jakarta
REPELITA      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
WHO           -  World Health Organization
, 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$22.4 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would be the first step in developing a
sewerage system in Jakarta, and would complement the public
health measures carried out under previous Bank-assisted
urban development projects. Its principal objectives are to
improve environmental conditions and public health, establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation
and management of the Jakarta sewerage system, and
demonstrate the feasibility of appropriate low-cost
technologies. The project would cover sewerage and
sanitation improvements including (a) a basic water-borne
sewerage system, (b) drainage improvements, (c) sanitation
improvements covering the construction of leaching pits,
public toilet and washing facilities, and the provision of
public water taps and desludging facilities and equipment,
(d) consulting services for project implementation, for
technical, institutional and financial studies, and the
preparation of future projects, and (e) training. The
project would benefit about 450,000 people, about 45% of whom
are defined as urban poor.
There are no major risks regarding the physical implemen-
tation of the project. The subsequent successful operation
of the sewerage service awaits the establishment of an
appropriate institution. The establishment of this insti-
tution would follow from the institutional studies to be
carried out during project implementation. There is an
inherent difficulty in projecting accurately the pace and
extent to which customers would be connected to the system.
In recognition of the risks the Bank and the Government of
Indonesia decided to pursue a relatively small pilot project.
Experience gained would be used in the future development of
a Jakarta sewerage system.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local   Foreign  Total
Project Costs /a                                         --- (US$ million) ----
Sewerage service                     8.4    10.0    18.4
Drainage component                   1.7      0.8      2.5
Sanitation component                 0.8      0.8      1.6
Consultants and training:
Institutional development,
preparation of future
projects and training              1.3      2.8      4.1
Base cost                      12.2    14.4    26.6
Physical contingencies               2.0      2.0      4.0
Price contingencies                  3.5      3.0      6.5
Total project cost             17.7    19.4    37.1
Front-end fee                        -        0.2      0.2
Total financing required    17.7    19.6    37.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 2.8    19.6    22.4
Government                          14.9      -       14.9
Total financing provided    17.7    19.6    37.3
Estimated
Disbursements:             Bank FY  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
-- US$ million equivalent --
Annual              2.2   7.9   5.6   4.5   2.2
Cumulative          2.2  10.1  15.7  20.2  22.4
Rate of Return:    Taking the projected sewerage charges as a rough proxy for
project benefits shows that the financial internal rate of
return, which provides a very conservative estimate of
project benefits as related to project costs, amounts to
about 5.4%. This figure does not include substantial
economic and social benefits accruing to the urban poor,
particularly from better health conditions. Rate of return
analysis is not applicable to the drainage and sanitation
components.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4158-IND dated January 7, 1983.
/a Excluding taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$22.4 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Jakarta Sewerage and Sani-
tation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOM4Y /1
2.         A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and ILuman Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795 IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has
a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system
of agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra
and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java which has
areas with some of the highest rural population densities in the world.
About 207. of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Outer
Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a.
The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places Indonesia for the
first time amongst middle income countries./2
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders VII Project (No. P-3444-IND), circulated under
cover of R83-6, dated January 6, 1983, and submitted for consideration by
the Executive Directors on January 25, 1983.
/2  On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.         Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in
infrastructure, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain
producer incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests
in 1980 and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high
growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral
growth has been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and
distorted incentives.
5.         In 1981-82 the macroeconomic resource position changed
dramatically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led
to a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years,
with a deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Owing to
historically prudent debt and reserve management, Indonesia does not face
problems of the magnitude of other oil exporters. However, barring a major
recovery in oil prices, there will be a need for a short run adjustment in
the next two years. The burden of adjustment will have to fall on
import-intensive public expenditures, leading to some rephasing of existing
expenditure plans. This will lead to some reduction in the growth rate in
the short run. Increased domestic resource mobilization will also be
necessary - the significant reduction in the oil subsidy in January 1983
was an important step in this direction. At a more fundamental level the
change in external prospects emphasized the need for substantial structural
change in the eighties. If the pace of development is to be sustained the
development of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is
essential.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.         Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic health



- 3 -
indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase
in life expectancy from 47 to 53./i These improvements should not, however,
mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of the
population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The core of
the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers
form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for
most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural
wages. Hlowever, in the last two years of good rice harvests it is likely that
significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural incomes on parts
of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have declined in the face of
the international recession.
7.         In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next decade.
In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and industry only
13%, while the growth of services employment, from 247% of the total in 1971 to
327% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employment in
the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by rising oil
incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a major source of
labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying the pattern of
productive growth. Open unemployment, at about 2% in the 1971-80 period, 4%
in 1980, is not yet a serious problem - it is concentrated amongst secondary
school leavers waiting for high income work; the key issues are of widespread
underemployment (seen in short working hours in some sectors) and low wages.
To tackle this a sustained rise in labor demand is crucial - through the
maintenance of overall growth and the encouragement of labor-intensive choice
of techniques in production, especially in the industrial sector.
8.         In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in
primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has been a
large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major
expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of
mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



-4-
Policy for Structural Change
9.         Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.        In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing through
an improvement in the economic environment. Over the last year the GOI has
allowed the rupiah to depreciate about 10% against the US dollar, thereby
increasing incentives for the production of traded goods. Furthermore, the
GOI has initiated a general review of the trade regime, with a view to
removing the distortions caused by the wide variations in rates of effective
production. It has also embarked on a program designed to promote the
expansion of nonoil exports, including export financing arrangements, export
insurance, improved ports procedures, export processing zones and a system
of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers
from significant domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy
regulatory burden, especially in the area of investment licensing, and a
distorted and poorly developed financial system. Further policy reforms to
alleviate these constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.        The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid
a serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment measures.
In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%, and this
followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive step that
substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and the average
opportunity cost; however, price relativities between products diverge widely
from those prevailing on the international market. In addition a major
program of investment is planned, with public and private participation, in
coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro and geothermal
resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power generation in the coming
decade.
12.        Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.



This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and the
rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of further
expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered from
relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating
substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution
and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic finance for investment will have to be found. This will require a
major increase in resource mobilization through the public sector, through a
combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well over
10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 budget represented a significant
effort to improve the situation, with a halving in the annual level of the oil
subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in nonoil taxes, but this will have to be
sustained in following years. In addition to public resource mobilization it
is becoming increasingly important to encourage the growth and improve the
efficiency of distribution of financialized savings, through an improved
financial regime and the development of a domestic capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in the
short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important component of
this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total disbursed
and outstanding external public debt was almost $16 billion at the end of 1981
and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11 billion. The Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation in
its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and variable
interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1981 private source debt
accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact that Indonesia
remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency
with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far the country
has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on commodity
production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes Indonesia
somewhat more vulnerable to developments in international markets. The
implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent, and that
there will be a continued justification for official debt of long maturities
in the 1980s. Present projections indicate that Indonesia's financing
requirements can be met with the debt service ratio remaining close to 20%
throughout the decade.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%.  By the end of 1981,
these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group
supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders VII Project (No. P-3444-IND), circulated under
cover of R83-6, dated January 6, 1983, and submitted for consideration by
the Executive Directors on January 25, 1983.



investments in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a rapid
expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the severe
shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector
work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to
follow this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, sector work
and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's
energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation
and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in
view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport
is anticipated.  Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in
the late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (the ratio of actual disbursements
during the fiscal year to the cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning
of the fiscal year) declined from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80. The
Bank-wide average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Nigeria were 21.2% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much
of this decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
which took place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% in the FY77-79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of
83%), it also reflected increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the
problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps
have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these



- 3 -
joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as a result of
these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an
increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in
FY82, implying a disbursement ratio of around 18%. While it is important
that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
19.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625.  Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the fifth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Fourth Transmigration, Third
Agricultural Training and Manpower Development projects.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTCR
Current Situation
21.        Sanitary conditions in Indonesia are still unsatisfactory and lag
behind those in other countries at a similar stage of economic development.
This is evidenced by high infant mortality rates, and a very high incidence
of water-borne diseases including cholera, typhoid fever and intestinal
diseases. At the end of the 1970s, the average infant mortality rate in
Indonesia was estimated at about 100 per 1,000 births compared to about 55
in the Philippines and Thailand, and 32 in Malaysia. Further, Indonesia
exceeded all other countries in the number of cases of, and deaths from,
cholera.
22.        In 1981, only about 4C. of the urban population had access to some
form of reticulated water supply, and most of this supply suffered from
contamination, low pressure, and intermittent service. Only about 2MY/. of
the urban population had satisfactory sanitation facilities. Of the rural
population, only about 18% had access to any type of potable water supply,
and only 24% had satisfactory sanitation facilities.



- 9 -
23.       While the level of public water supply service for the total
population rose from 2.5% in 1970 to 23% in 1981, the absolute number of
people without access to safe water remained almost the same at 118 million in
1970 as against 117 million in 1981. Similarly, the proportion of the
population served by sanitary facilities in the country increased from about
15% in 1970 to 23% in 1981, but the population not served increased from
103 million to 117 million, with the urban areas particularly falling behind.
Sector Organization
24.       Three ministries of GOI are principally responsible for the sector.
Within the Ministry of Public Works, the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development (Cipta Karya), among other duties, is
responsible for planning, design and implementation of water supply, sewerage
and sanitation projects funded by the central government. The Ministry of
Health, through its Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation, is responsible for
rural water supply and sanitation. The Ministry of Home Affairs, by virtue of
its responsibility for local government and local government enterprises,
indirectly has purview over the operations of water supply and sewerage
systems and the management of sanitation facilities.
25.       For Jakarta, the City Government of Jakarta (DKI-Jakarta), under
the Ministry of Home Affairs, is responsible for local government functions,
including water supply, sewerage and sanitation. Jakarta-s public water
supply utility (PAM Jaya), is a semi-autonomous entity of DKI-Jakarta, and is
responsible for the operation and maintenance, and augmentation of Jakarta's
water supply.
Sector Development and Investment
26.       During the period covered by GOI's Repelita I, the emphasis of
sector development was on water supply. With a capital investment of Rp 16
billion, production capacity increased from 9,000 liters per second (lps) to
15,000 lps during the period. Investment during Repelita II, amounted to Rp
166 billion, and productive capacity increased from 15,000 lps to 21,000 lps
during the period. By 1979, it was recognized that the pace of development
needed to be further accelerated, and that, in particular, the smaller cities
and towns must be accorded urgent priority. The GOI embarked upon a "basic
needs" approach which was defined as the supply of 60 liters per capita per
day (lcpd) to 60% of the population in the cities and towns included in the
current and successive plans. With regard to sewerage and sanitation, GOI has
taken several initiatives, including a Kampung (neighborhood) Improvement
Program (KIP) started in the early 1970s and two pilot urban sewerage projects
initiated in Bandung (1979) and Medan (1981).



- 10 -
27.       In 1981, under the impetus of the International Drinking Water and
Sanitation Decade, overall service level targets were set by GOI for 1990 as
follows: urban and rural water supply to serve 75% and 60% of the total
population, respectively; and urban and rural sanitation to serve 60% and 40%
of the total population, respectively. The average annual investment implied
by these targets is Rp 318 billion or $570 million (in constant 1981/82
prices). Its achievement is dependent on substantial and continuing
improvements in implementation capacity, and GOI's ability to raise
substantial funds from internal and external sources. While the setting of
high targets may contribute to additional effort and achievement, GOI's
program appears overambitious.
Bank Lending for the Sector
28.       The Bank's objectives for the sector are: (a) the provision of basic
water supply, sewerage and sanitation facilities, in accordance with
technology appropriate to the local situation, in a cost-effective manner, and
with particular emphasis on the-needs of low-income groups; (b) the
development of new, and the strengthening of existing, central and local
institutions to improve planning, implementation and delivery of basic
services; and (c) the creation of financially viable public utilities, which
can provide the various services at tariff levels which the community can
afford. These objectives are consistent with those of the GOI.
29.       The first Bank-assisted Five Cities Water Supply Project (Loan
1049-IND) was approved in 1975 to: (a) increase and improve the water supply
and distribution network in five cities; (b) train the staff required for the
management of the beneficiary water supply utilities; and (c) develop staff
training programs. The Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1709-IND) provides
for the expansion and improvement of existing water supply and distribution
systems in five cities, and the construction of new water supply systems in
two, cities. The execution of civil works began after initial delays in
letting procurement contracts.
30.       Four Bank-assisted Urban Development Projects have supported the
KIP Program to improve urban environmental conditions including sanitation.
The first (Loan 1040-IND) covered a KIP project for Jakarta and the second
(Loan 1336-IND) covered Jakarta and Surabaya. The third and fourth projects
(Loans 1653 and 1972-IND) extended the program to other cities and towns. The
Bank was also involved in the formulation of the sector strategy for the
Jakarta metropolitan area by funding the preparation of the Jakarta
Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP), which was completed in 1981. The plan
covers in detail the objectives and development strategies for land
development, housing, roads and railways, and the water supply, sewerage and
sanitation sectors. The proposed project is consistent with the JMDP.



- 9 -
23.        While the level of public water supply service for the total
population rose from 2.5% in 1970 to 23% in 1981, the absolute number of
people without access to safe water remained almost the same at 118 million in
1970 as against 117 million in 1981. Similarly, the proportion of the
population served by sanitary facilities in the country increased from about
15% in 1970 to 23% in 1981, but the population not served increased from
103 million to 117 million, with the urban areas particularly falling behind.
Sector Organization
24.        Three ministries of GOI are principally responsible for the sector.
Within the Ministry of Public Works, the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development (Cipta Karya), among other duties, is
responsible for planning, design and implementation of water supply, sewerage
and sanitation projects funded by the central government. The Ministry of
Health, through its Directorate of Hygiene and Sanitation, is responsible for
rural water supply and sanitation. The Ministry of Home Affairs, by virtue of
its responsibility for local government and local government enterprises,
indirectly has purview over the operations of water supply and sewerage
systems and the management of sanitation facilities.
25.        For Jakarta, the City Government of Jakarta (DKI-Jakarta), under
the Ministry of HIome Affairs, is responsible for local government functions,
including water supply, sewerage and sanitation. Jakarta's public water
supply utility (PAM Jaya), is a semi-autonomous entity of DKI-Jakarta, and is
responsible for the operation and maintenance, and augmentation of Jakarta-s
water supply.
Sector Development and Investment
26.        During the period covered by GOI's Repelita I, the emphasis of
sector development was on water supply. With a capital investment of Rp 16
billion, production capacity increased from 9,000 liters per second (lps) to
15,000 lps during the period. Investment during Repelita II, amounted to Rp
166 billion, and productive capacity increased from 15,000 lps to 21,000 lps
during the period. By 1979, it was recognized that the pace of development
needed to be further accelerated, and that, in particular, the smaller cities
and towns must be accorded urgent priority. The GOI embarked upon a "basic
needs" approach which was defined as the supply of 60 liters per capita per
day (lcpd) to 60/ of the population in the cities and towns included in the
current and successive plans. With regard to sewerage and sanitation, GOI has
taken several initiatives, including a Kampung (neighborhood) Improvement
Program (KIP) started in the early 1970s and two pilot urban sewerage projects
initiated in Bandung (1979) and Medan (1981).



- 10 -
27.       In 1981, under the impetus of the International Drinking Water and
Sanitation Decade, overall service level targets were set by GOI for 1990 as
follows: urban and rural water supply to serve 75% and 60% of the total
population, respectively; and urban and rural sanitation to serve 60% and 40%
of the total population, respectively. The average annual investment implied
by these targets is Rp 318 billion or $570 million (in constant 1981/82
prices). Its achievement is dependent on substantial and continuing
improvements in implementation capacity, and GOI's ability to raise
substantial funds from internal and external sources. While the setting of
high targets may contribute to additional effort and achievement, GOI's
program appears overambitious.
Bank Lending for the Sector
28.       The Bank's objectives for the sector are: (a) the provision of basic
water supply, sewerage and sanitation facilities, in accordance with
technology appropriate to the local situation, in a cost-effective manner, and
with particular emphasis on the needs of low-income groups; (b) the
development of new, and the strengthening of existing, central and local
institutions to improve planning, implementation and delivery of basic
services; and (c) the creation of financially viable public utilities, which
can provide the various services at tariff levels which the community can
afford. These objectives are consistent with those of the GOI.
29.       The first Bank-assisted Five Cities Water Supply Project (Loan
1049-IND) was approved in 1975 to: (a) increase and improve the water supply
and distribution network in five cities; (b) train the staff required for the
management of the beneficiary water supply utilities; and (c) develop staff
training programs. The Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1709-IND) provides
for the expansion and improvement of existing water supply and distribution
systems in five cities, and the construction of new water supply systems in
two, cities. The execution of civil works began after initial delays in
letting procurement contracts.
30.       Four Bank-assisted Urban Development Projects have supported the
KIP Program to improve urban environmental conditions including sanitation.
The first (Loan 1040-IND) covered a KIP project for Jakarta and the second
(Loan 1336-IND) covered Jakarta and Surabaya. The third and fourth projects
(Loans 1653 and 1972-IND) extended the program to other cities and towns. The
Bank was also involved in the formulation of the sector strategy for the
Jakarta metropolitan area by funding the preparation of the Jakarta
Metropolitan Development Plan (JMDP), which was completed in 1981. The plan
covers in detail the objectives and development strategies for land
development, housing, roads and railways, and the water supply, sewerage and
sanitation sectors. The proposed project is consistent with the JMDP.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.        Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew out of the
Bank's involvement in Indonesia-s water supply, sewerage and sanitation
sector. Preparation reports for the proposed project were completed by
consultants financed under the Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Credit
898-IND) and the Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1653-IND), and provided
the basis for project appraisal in June 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4158-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington during
December 1982, with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Radinal Moochtar,
Director General, Cipta Karya, Ministry of Public Works.
32.        The proposed project evolved over a long period of time.  In
response to a Bank recommendation in 1972, GOI had a master plan prepared for
sewage disposal in Jakarta. The plan was completed in 1977, with UNDP
financing and W4HO as the executing agency. The plan recommended the
construction of a conventional water-borne sewerage system at a total esti-
mated cost of about $500 million (in 1976 prices). This cost estimate was
considered very much understated. The plan was not implemented due to its
high cost and the questionable justification of using a water-borne system in
many areas where lower-cost solutions appeared feasible. In 1979, the Bank
agreed to GOI's request to consider providing assistance in financing the
proposed project to test a more appropriate approach to sewage disposal in
Jakarta which, if successful, could be replicated elsewhere in the city. The
proposed approach would combine sewerage, drainage and sanitation works,
including a reliance on the continued use of septic tanks, pit privies and
other low-cost measures to improve sanitation. With the new approach, the
technology appropriate to an area would be determined by an assessment of its
environmental conditions, population characteristics and financial
capabilities. Commercial areas with an adequate water supply and sufficient
financial strength would be served by water-borne sewerage systems providing
direct connections. Affluent kampungs located on higher ground would use
septic tanks, while lower-income kampungs would be served through the
collection of liquid wastes in drains connected to major sewers. Other
low-cost improvements, like the provision of leaching pits and facilities for
disludging septic tanks, would also be possible. Since flooding mixed with
sewage is a serious problem in some areas, improvements would be needed to
major and minor drainage systems.
Project Objectives
33.        The primary objectives of the proposed project are to (a) improve
environmental conditions and public health in the project area; (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management,
and eventual augmentation, of the Jakarta sewerage system; and (c) demonstrate
the practical feasibility of low-cost and appropriate technologies for
improved sanitation.



- 12 -
Project Area
34.       Jakarta's population is about 6.5 milLion growing at a rate
approaching 4.5% p.a. The city is relatively affluent with per capita
earnings about 85% higher than the national average. Nevertheless, the city
has large pockets of low-income population.  It is estimated that about 45%
of kampung residents in the project area in 1980 had household incomes below
the relative poverty level. Water supply in Jakarta is poor; only about 50%
of the population has direct access to reticulated water provided by PAM
Jaya. The remainder of the population, mostly low-income groups, buy water
from vendors or obtain it from unprotected rivers, springs or private wells.
The water supply, however obtained, is usually contaminated, and raw water
supplied to the main water treatment plant is heavily polluted. Improve-
ments in water supply are needed to achieve the full public health benefits
of the proposed project and of the various other urban improvement projects
currently being implemented.
35.       There is no sewerage system in Jakarta.  High-income residential
and business areas are normally served by septic tanks or leaching pits.
Sewage and other liquid wastes, and the overflows of septic tanks and leaching
pits drain into rivers and open channels, one of which is the source of water
for Jakarta's main water treatment plant. Important improvements to the
drainage system are in progress in some parts of the city, but more needs to
be done.  Some improvements in the drainage system will accrue from the
solid waste disposal component included in the Bank-assisted Third Urban
Development Project (Loan 1653-IND).
36.       The project area would comprise the Setia Budi and Tebet sections of
Jakarta. This covers about 2,000 ha, and has a population of about
450,000 persons or about 7% of Jakarta's population. The area has a mix of
high-, middle- and low-income areas, the latter being predominant. It has
substantial existing and projected commercial and industrial development. The
area lends itself well to the approach to sewage disposal being tested under
the project, as it would include different methods for sewerage and sanitation
improvements, serve different categories of customers, and can generate
revenues adequate to cover operating and maintenance costs and recover an
appropriate share of capital costs.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) Sewerage Works. The construction of about 19 km of primary
sewers and about 50 km of secondary and tertiary sewets; a
sewerage pumping station; the transformation of the Setia
Budi and Melati flood control ponds to combined sewage
treatment ponds and flood control reservoirs; and land
acquisition;



- 13 -
(b) Drainage Works. Construction of 24 km of new drains and of
one new culvert; improvement of about 4 km of canal and river
beds; and other drainage improvements covering a total of
about 177 km of minor drains;
(c) Sanitation Works. Construction of about 3,000 leaching pits;
provision of desludging facilities and sludge transportation
equipment; construction of a sludge thickening station, and
acquisition and preparation of a sludge disposal area; the
construction of about 30 new public washing and toilet
facilities, together with connections to water supply and
provisions for sewage and other liquid waste disposal; and
the rehabilitation and provision of about 100 public water
taps;
(d) Consulting Services. Consultants would be engaged for:
(i) construction supervision; (ii) institutional development,
including the establishment of technical, administrative and
financial procedures, the establishment of a cost recovery
mechanism, and the drafting of appropriate regulations
governing the use of the sewerage system; (iii) a review of
administrative and financial operations of PAM Jaya and other
agencies which may operate the future sewerage system;
(iv) feasibility studies for future water supply, sewerage and
sanitation projects; (v) technical assistance to review Jakarta's
water supply and, if GOI and the Bank agree, the detailed design
of future sewerage and sanitation projects, and
(e) Staff Training and Fellowships.
Implementation Arrangements
38.       In accordance with GOI's policy for the decentralization of central
government responsibilities, and Cipta Karya's national responsibility to
provide technical and managerial assistance to water supply and sewerage
utilities, Cipta Karya, the national agency, would delegate its responsibility
for project implementation to DKI-Jakarta. A Memorandum of Agreement has been
executed between Cipta Karya and DKI-Jakarta, covering their respective
responsibilities for project implementation.
39.       Implementing Agencies.  Cipta Karya and the Governor of DKI jointly
would appoint a Project Manager, who would be responsible for coordination,
and a Project Director who would head a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
responsible to DKI.  Day-to-day supervision and management of the project
would be assigned to the PIU. The PIU, with staff drawn from DKI-Jakarta's
Public Works Department (PWD) and KIP Unit, and Cipta Karya's Directorate
of Sanitary Engineering (DSE), would have adequate capacity for the planning
and execution of development projects. Performance by DKI under previous
Bank-assisted projects has been generally satisfactory. Cipta Karya would



- 14 -
retain responsibility for procurement, and project accounting. Cipta Karya's
accounting system and its procedures and arrangements for accounting for
project costs and expenditures are satisfactory. Annual audit reports
covering the project accounts, would be sent to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       The proposed project is in an advanced stage of preparation.  The
detailed design for construction of the primary sewerage system has been
completed; tender documents would be prepared, prequalification of civil works
contractors completed, and bids would be called for the supply of pipes and
equipment by early 1983. The detailed design of secondary and tertiary sewers
would be carried out by DKI assisted by consultants. Design of the drainage
and sanitation components would be carried out by local consultants under the
supervision of DKI. Project implementation would cover a 4-year period, i.e.
1983-87.
41.       Operations and Maintenance.  As sewerage would be a new service,
there is a need to make institutional arrangements for operations and
maintenance, financial administration and accounting. GOI is considering
combining the operation of new sewerage systems with that of existing water
supply public utilities. Accordingly, GOI wishes to consider whether PAM
Jaya, the Jakarta water supply utility, could assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance of the proposed sewerage system, when completed.
During project preparation it was found that at present the institutional
capability of PAM Jaya is inadequate to assume this responsibility.
Unaccounted-for water is about 5M., billing and collection efficiency is
low, and the present accounting system is unsatisfactory. PAM Jaya's
performance would be reviewed under the proposed project. Consultants would
assess the technical, administrative and accounting procedures of PAM Jaya
in order to improve water supply operations as a prerequisite to it assuming
any additional duties. Consultants would also review the possibility of
establishing either a separate public utility for sewerage or a separate
sewerage department within DKI. Pending the formal establishment of a new
entity to assume the responsibility for sewerage operations, DKI's existing
Departments would temporarily operate the system and carry out any preventive
maintenance. These Departments are capable to satisfactorily carry out these
technical functions. Consultants engaged under the project would also draft
regulations defining the duties, powers and rights of the new entity to be
responsible for the operation of the sewerage system. These would include the
appointment of officers and staff, conditions of service, and accounting and
audit requirements. In particular they would cover the compulsory connection
of permanent residences and other buildings to the sewerage system and the
legal powers which apply in the case of illegal connections, refusal to
connect and to prosecute defaulting customers. Consultants would also



- 15 -
prepare administrative manuals defining the internal operations of the
sewerage entity, its organizational structure, job descriptions, and other
internal matters. An accounting manual would be prepared for the operation of
a full accrual accounting system, inclusive of billing and collection
procedures. These studies would be completed by December 31, 1984, the
recommendations concerning the appropriate agency and operation of the
sewerage system would be discussed by GOI and the Bank by June 30, 1985, and
such agency would be established by April 1, 1986 to operate the sewerage
system (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.        Financial statements for the sewerage service would be prepared
annually, upon completion of the sewerage system, and audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and such financial statements together with the
Auditor's Report would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end
of the fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
43.        The total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is estimated at
$37.1 million, including a foreign exchange cost of $19.4 million. Base costs
reflect end-1982 prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 15%
for sewerage, and 25% for drainage and sanitation works; the higher percentage
used for the latter two components reflects their less advanced stage of
preparation. Price contingencies for local costs were estimated at 12% for
1983 and at 10% p.a. thereafter, and for foreign costs at 8% for 1983, 7.5%
for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter. The cost of consultants and
training has been estimated at $4.1 million, excluding contingencies, and
corresponds to about 480 man-months and about 270 man-months for local and
foreign consultants, respectively. It covers $1.1 million for engineering,
and $3.0 million equivalent for institutional development, the preparation of
future water supply, sewerage and sanitation projects, and training. This
estimate is based on an average total cost per man-month of $2,500 for local
consultants and $10,500 for foreign consultants (at 1982 prices), including
allowances for international travel and subsistence. GOI has already
requested the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for assistance
to review Jakarta-s existing water supply. JICA has indicated its agreement
in principle. Because of the close interdependence between water supply,
sewerage and sanitation, the Bank would review the Terms of Reference, review
progress and exchange views with GOI and JICA to ensure that the fullest
possible coordination be maintained.
44.        A Bank loan of $22.4 million would finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project of $19.4 million, local currency costs of about $2.8 million,
and the Bank's capitalized front-end fee of about $200,000, covering about 60%
of the total costs. GOI would provide the balance of Rp9.8 billion



- 16 -
($14.9 million) from its own resources. The completed project would be handed
over by Cipta Karya to DKI-Jakarta, by way of grant. GOI decided on this
approach following detailed consideration by the National Development Planning
Board (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of Finance, Cipta Karya and DKI-Jakarta. It
was decided by GOI that this pilot project should be considered as a 'seed
project'; DKI-Jakarta would be expected to finance future expansion works from
its own resources. The beneficiaries of this project would nevertheless pay
for the recovery of the capital cost.
Cost Recovery
45.       The principal financial objective is to ensure the financial
viability of the project. Additional objectives are to establish a sound
pricing policy, and achieve appropriate levels of cost recovery and cross-
subsidization. A financial projection has been prepared to test the financial
viability of the sewerage service. It shows that operating and maintenance
costs and the provision for depreciation can be covered, and that debt service
requirements can be met. This level of performance can be reached through a
number of successive increases in tariffs. An affordability test shows that
the estimated average sewerage bill for a household with a direct connection
would amount to about Rp 1,400 ($2.12) per month by 1987, increasing to about
Rp 2,200 ($3.33) by 1991.  In real terms it would, however, remain fairly
constant at no more than Rp 900 ($1.36) per month in 1982 prices.  This tariff
level would represent about 1.4% of the household income of a family with a
household income at the fiftieth percentile in 1987, which should be
considered as affordable. Sewerage charges would be set at levels so that
sufficient revenues would be internally generated to cover operating expenses,
and depreciation or debt service requirements whichever is the greater.
Tariffs would be reviewed at intervals not to exceed two years. Any surplus
internally generated funds would be applied to the augmentation of the
sewerage and sanitation system (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Since sewerage is a new service there is presently no mechanism
which can be readily used for the recovery of operation and maintenance and
capital costs. Accordingly, there is a need to establish an appropriate
mechanism for the recovery of costs, the design of a tariff structure and
setting of tariff levels, and for billing and collection and control. Under
the project, consultants would be engaged to review the various forms of
taxes and user charges which might be available to recover costs, taking
account of economic efficiency and equity criteria, ease of billing and
collection, and customer acceptance. With regard to the drainage and
sanitation component, cost recovery policies and procedures were established
under earlier Bank-assisted projects. Related costs are recovered through
general taxes, with some minor user-charges for direct services, such as
water supplied from public taps, and desludging of septic tanks and leaching
pits.  It is proposed that these established procedures should be continued.



- 17 -
Procurement
47.       All civil works contracts of $1 million or more, would be procured
by ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. These include the
construction of major sewerage, macro-drainage and other civil works,
totalling about $13.0 million, including contingencies. Contracts would be
grouped in bidding packages of four to six individual contracts each, with
contractors given the option of bidding on one or more of the individual
contracts in the package. The contract award would be made on the basis of
the lowest evaluated price for the package as a whole. The balance of
construction to be financed under the project, totalling $2.0 million,
including contingencies, consists of minor sanitation and micro-drainage
works; these are not likely to attract foreign bidders, and would be procured
by local competitive bidding procedures. All contracts for goods of $100,000
or more would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Pipes,
plant and equipment and other goods, totalling $11.0 million, including
contingencies, would be grouped in bidding packages of about $2.0 million
each, and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or
the import duty, whichever is the lower. Miscellaneous minor items in
packages of less than $100,000 and totalling $2.0 million would be procured
under local competitive bidding procedures.  All bidding packages for works
estimated to cost over $2.0 million and bidding packages for goods over
$500,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation.
Disbursements
48.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against the following
categories of expenditure: (a) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported
goods and 65% of locally procured imported goods; (b) 93% of ex-factory costs
of locally manufactured goods procured through ICB; (c) 4M. of the costs of
civil works contracts; and (d) 100% of the costs of foreign and local
consulting services and training. Owing to the advanced state of project
preparation and its relatively small size, disbursement of the proposed loan
is expected to take five years, or two years less than indicated by the
countrywide disbursement profile for the urban and water supply sector.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The proposed project would be the first step in developing a
sewerage system in Jakarta.  This is a much needed investment in view of the
still unsatisfactory sanitary conditions in Indonesia, evidenced by high
infant mortality rates and very high incidence of water-borne diseases. The
project would improve environmental conditions and public health 6f the



- 18 -
population in the project area. When completed in early 1987, the sewerage
component would serve a population of about 260,000 persons, of whom 190,000
would be served by direct connections and about 70,000 through the collection
of sewage and other liquid wastes through open drains. With progressive
intensification, the sewerage network is projected to serve in excess of
700,000 persons by 1996. The drainage component would provide environmental
improvement in the low-lying areas which are subject to flooding and occupied
predominantly by low-income households. The sanitation component would also
primarily benefit families living in low-income kampungs. In addition, the
project would contribute to institutional development, and the formulation of
appropriate financial policies and practices for the sound financial
management of the sewerage service.
50.       The social and economic benefits accruing from a sewage collection
and disposal system, and the other sanitary improvements in the proposed
project are difficult to quantify satisfactorily. In assessing these
benefits, the reduction in the incidence of water--borne diseases and of infant
mortality, the enhancement in the quality of life, and prospects for greater
economic activity are all important factors. Taking the projected sewerage
charges as a rough proxy for project benefits, shows that the financial
internal rate of return, which provides a very conservative estimate of
project benefits as related to project cost, amounts to about 5.4%.
Considering the substantial additional social and economic benefits accruing,
particularly to the urban poor, this is regarded as satisfactory. The
affordability test shows that, with an appropriate tariff structure,
households would be able to afford the payment of the sewerage rates.
51.       There are no major risks regarding the physical implementation of
the project. However, the subsequent successful operation of the sewerage
service awaits the establishment of a capable institution that can operate and
maintain the facilities. The form and manner by which such an institution
would be established would depend on the recommendations arising from various
institutional studies to be carried out during project implementation.
Another risk is the inherent difficulty in predicting the pace and extent at
which customers would be connected to the system. In recognition of the
risks, the Bank and GOI have decided to pursue a relatively small pilot
project. Experience with this project would be used in defining the future
development of a sewerage system for Jakarta.
Environmental Aspects
52.       The project would result in substantial net environmental
improvements in the project area. Sewage and other liquid wastes, and sludge
from septic tanks, would be disposed of in a sanitary manner, and the
provision of additional public facilities, which provide washing and toilet
facilities and public water taps, and leaching pits would improve sanitary
conditions generally. The partial treatment of sewage through oxidation, and
its disposal into Kali Cideng, would result in a marginal improvement in the
quality of raw water at the intake for the Pejompongan Water Treatment Plant
in Banjir Canal, which currently receives untreated sewage flows. There could



- 19 -
be occasional minor problems with the operation of the sewage treatment
ponds, depending on the quantity of non-biodegradable detergents carried by
sewage flows, which would result in foaming; odors are not expected to reach
unacceptable levels. If any such problems arose, they would be addressed
during the initial stage of operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article 1ll, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                   by Moeen A. Qureshi
January 12, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-20-                    ~~~ANNEX I
- 20 -                             ME  
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)' a
TOTAL          l191.3                                          MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     316.5                  1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PgR CAPITA (US$)                      80.0       140.0           430.0            261.4                 890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         124.7       121.9           225.4            448.7                 701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAH (THOUSANDS)    94680.0   116143.0          146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    14.6         17.1            20.2             17.3                  32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION I5 REACHED                           2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           49.3        60.5            74.6            158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        355.9       378.8           452.4            355.9                1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             40.7        44.0            40.1             36.8                  39.9
15-64 YRS.                             56.2        53.4            56.9             59.7                  56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5             3.1              3.5                   3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1         2.0             2.3              2.0                   2.3
URBAN                                  3.7         3.6             4.0              3.3                   3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.8        40.7            35.3             29.3                  31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         24.5        17.2            13.3             11.0                   9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.8         2.7             2.2              2.0                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..       181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMSEN)       ..         0.2            27.1             19.3                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              93.0       102.0           113.0            108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       86.3        93.9           101.7/c           97.3                 106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              38.2        42.4            44.8/c           56.9                  54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            5.6         6.2             6.67W           20.0                  13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         22.9        16.8            11.3             10.9                   6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.2        47.3            53.1             57.8                  59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              149.9       120.9            92.7             89.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         3.0            12.0/d           32.9                  32.0
URBAN                                             10.0            35.07W           70.7                  51.9
RURAL                                   ..         1.0             6.07W           22.2                  20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        12.0            15.0/e           18.1                  37.7
URBAN                                   .         50.0            60.07o           72.7                  65.7
RURAL                                   ..         4.0             5.07e            4.7                  24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46778.7    26498.5          13674.6           3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         4517.0      7672.8          8871.6           4929.3                4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1360.3      1644.6          1609.9/d         1100.4                1047.5
URBAN                                251.8          ..           699. 07          301.3                 651.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..          3166.8/d         5815.7             . 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..            22.4/e             ..                  27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.4         4.8
URBAN                                  4.9         5.3
RURAL                                  4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..         1.5
URBAN                                   ..         1.6
RURAL                                   ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



- 21 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMFNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    71.0         78.0            94.0             97.4                   96.2
MALE                     86.0         83.0           100.0            101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                   58.0        73.0             89.0             87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     6.0         16.0            22.0              53.0                  37.6
MALE                     10.0        21.0             27.0             63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                    3.0         11.0            18.0             41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)      20.4         22.1            19.8               1.7                  20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               38.8        28.9             37.2             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                             14.0         13.1            17.0              20.2                  25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           39.0         56.6            62.0              52.1                  73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.1          2.1             3.5/c             1.5                   9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             7.2         22.0            41.9              35.4                 116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.1          0.8             8.6               3.2                  37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     11.0           ..            17.7/d            16.4                  53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA      2.8           ..             0.871             3.6                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        34791.4      41069.9         52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.8         30.9            29.3              29.5                  33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 75.0         66.0            58.0              70.0                  52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.0         10.0            12.0              15.0                  17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7        35.4            35.9              40.0                  38.5
MALE                                    54.2         49.5            51.0              51.8                  50.5
FEMALE                                  20.0         21.6            20.9              23.8                  26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2         1.3             1.2               1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..            23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          ..            49.47.                     
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..             6. 6/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..            14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           136.0             133.8                 194.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..           112.0             111.5                 155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..          ..           119.0                ..                 178.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..            98.0                ..                  164.9
A                           ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..          ..            28.0              43.8                  24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..            51.0              51.7                  41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



- 22-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
D.EFItIT ION  OF SOCIAL. IDCTORS
Noe:Although  the data ar    -a   feIIes  aneen         sea>   ju1dged the, moa -a l -ota   o-  and re,  liable.     It should als -co tsd I h-c  iha-no -n   ha, L,Itr
The  eeea    nty   r  Ci)~. the  .....to.nte   group cIl               -b sheta-    nrynII)--outy  grasp air ,a,,hat liahrtnerg   I cmtthntroctysu
ASiA   tousan   aqAn I                                                                   Conulari's pe   Hosptal Dd - loal, tIo.,.coo otal - ip-dltill                    "a at
7-ta  - OTaltefaeat   -.p,rfiag  taod  -m ad ina-d ast;1979 dan.-                                        oea,adrrl   i ed               b   h  nrsolrohe-5hnspto   l lhd
by as I.run  one pciai-n          sth inl,nnnyr'iir r-tIalnan
ASP? P0  CAiTaIA    t -U$    GyP per  -api-ta     -lse,ne  at......re  . maket peinasoa~l-                  did   ar,   ceiIri,io Inle,t.  Rceol houpotols. hatter   LIibide   est
ociuned by   -,,a  --ae-i- ethI,d as uord tart Atla  (11919-0 basislI  1990.                             o,nd medica   eees   a  pennnl   tle                  oPh,t-.Is   y-
0973. nod 1950 dana.                                                                                     a-hal  asstn1one  mldai,. etc-I abtb,                     tlt i-p  cea
Et'ROOG  CONStbTPDIOrPER CAP10A - Ana ...  ca....y. tio of  -o-aro a   aoy(nlt oipron    r    haspIt-i  So ida  tacorloSp  lgor    Iapit "In.l
aod  liglre. parrincm   unracason n dlodt.   -1oe-   ad ge.b'ra.elt-an   r Ia hoptl,b                                    oa-r  aa opit-alIr" and neta   o   aet
POPULATION AND ClOuL STfATISTICh
tEota  Pu"lta.SdOaelo:aca   - As of Jaly I; 1960. 1970. a-d 1900                                     NOISING,
Urba  Poplaton (ttaci o  retIl - Raio  atcI     ntateipouaio                                  A house.hold oa.i.a.     a a,-   grc  ciitdolal   b  sat  itt               -orS'
difteca-t detiotti-cs            ..oru oa   map.  ote        topasoiip n   aaadtei   ansan    A boardroc  odge  no -                                            c nay art hanar   inl
19o60at lo   Ih.190   ol 190   :  dana,, hos= hoild tE-sa  ala    -por--eo
popalattan Proiratiucs                                                               AcnCo~~~~~~~~~p.Otsn'bectl I  _P_i_jy. parj to'ntta  ohc,ad  aa 
Po2aioiyabDACsso    pplri-polotinr    asdnbb adpene   rcor  niira.anrcy                                                                                     0-ptdnnrnta
sriyPc.....o ho- ag   n   e   e   hI  eeait    n    etliyetn1alig.tneral. Pnlta    oI,dno,sr:irsttrrso
fertilityli,r-rdin   to t-c,,rlea-  odPan    anl    ian.gpro.nc
thhrbaesoo.ihaahat,iontnge sster-r 2enltsas-safa-le-Ya    I11cela6                                                                                     d0.aspronatsfrrrpcnir
coins ocasant   'lASsIs achioed  'rp  otter irtlit   rates dei Ine   to. pimary                            j, Ioha --s"  paat -io  rra   10lda             ida    odht
in she y-ac 2000,..ad  hb, rate of da-  te  of ferniliepeateIoneplate-                                                              -1odytho_lta.st  ncltnb-a-:'nse    n  ha;nca-na-Y
Ian  stat ia-ae  p,GlplAcn         re~ached - Thlo y-a   h-c trotinnary pop.        tin     penl e   gn-i1.tcainaI.o  son   toIn o                                     Iinsn:rte    onppi
sian sill he ecathbd.                                                                                 c...i  of1,.11 Id t  ilpas  fo       -;tr-rp-nd-oa,  ---se  ace r-nraify
Per-    Its. k-   Mid-pear popo lasion Pee sq--r  kilos-t-   100 he-ares) If                        Vt-ot in-aI   no ino   (per,eet atf c'dr       oerlclleS.ln
trlae;1960. 1970 sod 1979 dana.                                                              iso lcsdn , oaot.SdsenI   cohrourn    hc    prs   need
Per so. An. aoiclcra  ad - Cocycald an abco  foragerit- ra   larI 1d                                   ens lp r soa  deprort   tseode   iati50  tons
",Y"~ I9ll, 1971 and 1979 dalta                                                                    -ui-1terrsa-peay.                       ucoopPTa,l s_t,-nns  nniedi
,Poplan io   Age     _truons, (p.,-, l    Child-em  I0-i4 yeel.nr  o-a -                                 pcinaruo-daeode   i-els dtoid,,d iy  -she-  of teaher  in  Ic
64 peassI, sod  ee ired  Ab pnse  an- te3    spneoee   fodpa  po'po-                          ... oeespadtng  eer
aia;196.1970. ond 19N0 daadlt                                                                   M i LiterateL e-tpjern..tf  - L                  "I'ao   dllc  (all, a   In'rll and ecirf
Poraltiontrowl Rat  Iracean   - total - os_ot  groth rt-of  .,t.I eid-                           anapretg    f totaL idaIt pop,,ot-to  a_e  lb hearstdoe
maer  popLattn; for   9 0-tO   1960-70,. nod  iO-NO.
Pouato   troo   Rate(percent)  - "ca-soa gronsbrac   of -bi-  pipa-                           CIISOPPIO9
aio;ns  tee 1915-hI. 1960-70)  and 1970-                                                            P Iesoege  Can0rcouep0 (P'                         Pco6eatnooprs   ao
lind    ii  Re-Ot   pr hu d   - A.,9oal ii          i-0l,rh   pan ainusad of mid-peon                 tat-eain   ls  tht- eight perno-o; ctioo   s:lin                      lee       n
poplaio;  960. 197.  od1900 dat-etltepthl.n
Grade Dear  Rate Ipartlh--s d  - Ao-al deaths per thoo-d  of old-pear                                  Radingcnoet(Pert.sao "pl                            All types cf roeten           Io eadlo
popo1i-eio; 19600  1970.  -rd 1987 dora.                                                   -           henassrune                     t   e   h-ou,u-d utI       I pouaion_ s  tdsa'
tents l, O rdorato   Ra-e- Aen..age, n.am lo l dacghrr-saonar                I tas  in,                   1 trenad   neenr   ncsttsnd Is  er   h-  r   sra  o                          atrdio
her eo.na  _ep_odoanot      poo P " if  h  n~pere.-c.s.Present  .ge-sperifta  te-                      sets  ..n In nffet; da   a                                     -aapnenrno   ebearhe   ic
dl try eaten; --tilp  o1Io-pyar  -erga           ning  In  96. 1970. and lbNO                          east Ituaet.    abut inhd Ibel
Paa-illpP       a-sniAtseirtn21%bAn         i tose ) -         ..os I  ..he a,f a..eP,oe               TV Reoei-e   (Par th.o dppla  o    TV rti--e  one Se-nad-aseo
of hteth-torteId          d.o.e.se      Piapio es of-al_n1  ani  p                -nig  ga.-gnea  pchli tlpe  tRh,,-ad papaIl ao; ert loden an1 licensd TO  iecei.eem
Poetlp Pa-oing  U-O r    -ece- at mare td somee I- P"n--tge, of maried                                   In co nisad in, yaa.a   I_e _ogist oco I_      Th cern man insefn
ofoid=-hertn   ag ..11-44  pear)  ,ho  -oe btreh-tasteI  dente-t                            Nenspaper C         'irotoin  )2eh.os-Aa_p_2aaL_tol2   - Oboes thel a--ge, tie-
PulloArl      deacned piat   t    cod ...             ee"'  snow    it is  -onidered
FOOD AND..  TRITION0                                                                                       ta he "daillp" it In appears at least fou  tt_  ark
iadn- of Food P-d-ti-i par Capt_ 1969-_i1_001  - loden  of pee raia    noa_Cn ma   noiAItend-a0pe    C.9iap   iae-t-a,,ed onha, enb- at
ietedocoaeabrhoedibh,,aeda ai  (creact-g.r-ffn-a-d
enaar  enloedl   hgrese   pedaion  ofechrune   n  aedC                                     -Al-   0
onunlasnnPIloalhrceocgb                19-61-h,1970. ad 1991  dat.-                       Total LaborPo,       (tosns      fo--oi  .<Icpross   aia
.Pscaapi~soppitnfclorletlIeotens -fc i-tn ts-1          C-npatd iens                         Ismdoread           onnpo...o..lnlrltoatinc.tdnt-a-
no-aepnqcnalnanfor  fod_nappita   an u ill l,ccaeppe.                 apt                      canyels-p- pag   sia,,   a)a_ll acts     lniol:'c         in.a...rc .se   are
pro da.    Icllbl   -splstern   doetic, p-ad-ti,,, ipoers les                                        son toM-rbi     1960. 19P0sa  19a0 dot
-occ.ad charges 10, stok.  Ncr  -cppliann-iu.aina  herd, seds,                                   feaeIecnl-Fai   snfrea    reu                                  F trllbrtre
-srilnce   to, food proesI-      ,ad lso   I   ia icaso                  ecire7-                AO!s,a1,pe ne       Ishn   forte  ilo   a-0' oeifPni ad
maity  seed  as_ami_d bp PAt asod n  phpniolni-ol neds fC.  e-Imal ai-                                   tlnarahpi       tata       f tonallanc i-           1960. 1970 ond 1990 dan.
-od te  distrtbsnli-  of pcplri_ adalc g                  `0y      -oa   foe  -ats  ornd e-lerititp,  -ae  sod gn-  nspr-o a-irsa   the  ot;
h   Inead lt-e; J961-00. 1970 and 1977 dat.-                                                         196t. 1970 and 1990 data.
rtracinoceltty otnmjman   po ds  Ierneirnotiu:  nrcst                                       -ariciy-ip t-oc -ac -gp -a     d - total. I          -fod female    pab-ti -
"Icnoc    o  all  --urillattlrrd   r10 I_ornoS'           e foe stis,n ..oooa0                                 f tonal, sal  nod Feml.         oe-Ii   lal   atrupctcp
aloacsfb0cas         f tuna-  scae        ptd ad 0g...at.o.....l...                             I'960, 197Ph.-ndl950ds-n.  Th..ear-haordoc , l   ls rieipatI.ieicdte
p,ol-  pn-iac  cf shic,h 10 grons-         l   rans     rsI    Th h           san-PrIr   ietd-ni    nrc,craf  h  pp-                                       i   and_d toed  nIta  tc-d.  A
aeds  c                       Ifaetanioe   7) croci of t lP-nt,it, -ad 23  --ac  of                    ft'a  rti-ure   ar  f- -e        - ro  --
-oima- poal  as _i oc ,   la thai,ela, orpctp-d ho PAOP In the Third                                Oooi  rndoyRatio                         , .ccF pu,p'l-or-   s-f-  15 -d 65 and
Anrld Fon,d Sonnep; 1961-hi. 1010 an,d 1977 data                                                       tot    ,tt l fber tote-
Fe  ol    etl npl  eeala  urtorLol- Prtre,                           5-oey of Foal de-
elned ten   -ecand po,lac  inlral            pee d,s; 1901-Of. 1970 o-d 1977 dot-.                 NO 1000 1 0iTRltiTltS
Chi!ldpop           Dea~th On,tnQpa   h--nadl - hA--a I oah  per rh--sd in,                            P-etotoecProtr_leocooro  I ihri. an ,,, 0' ol kldI  - te-i-od rlyitn
adgn 4p-y pears. tnthld-canlhthlo 9,   -,ecap,  oes   d-a-itrigcoi                               Ipecan    laes   20eeee   ptare-t 20 p--tae -t .dpoort40  rte
sela   data dn-i-d  fromlat  tahls;    60. 170 al1900 dat,-t   nshls
HtuAMi                                                                                                PFPOVTO Y TGrT GROIjPt
LiefPieaica0"cip' earsl -0Arpsfrni,hc-b-                     nof lifennaaitThcalaantminnnrorocetnouto,icr    tet
ahI'll,  :900.  910 aid 1900 dan.                                                                    ae   houdieinhperatcotndrol   cic-n
R-utPnolc_tcj0   -hord   - A-nn,al dasths  i                ,intone  t-dc- on  traP          Estimatd Ahsol'otn  Pnooti'Inostoa   10  po   Iitl-ae                         id ear- I-
at  ga par  th-a-d faei-      5m   19600. 1970 and 1980 dac-                                         Abslute1i ponsey IIooo  la-el In sh.,s Icos, .loe' hbln hich a eti,mat
Ac_ ass    NilSae WaterCpptt        f .ptol1ain      ta,obn   n   oa    Ne                                 oeaoaiatcoel-   plotl anac-olI c-odeclontsIa  o
her of peo le  ttal.  -rha, oid ror IIait  rtnishyea.nutso  afe-tdnd,,r
asnst_p   InldsroatsenratrYc   ne~tdhtucnaiae                                                    rnEsta. d   tali  P--ul.onelo, 1                11- 0 pct~ caital   _oha   and  -.ri-j
tact as 'h"c I'on pren-cd bt-ahoie-   spri,,g. and  -alep-                 ic)asRcc-    oara   potY  booe  en    i  cit.hrdof.oe.g   pr cpt
fose. Canor      -adposi, boatd  -t Isoehai  00 no-nr  froo  a- ts  sap  ha                            Icon  Itam    adj-t-tcn   forI  tigl,t p-,na  of [Mi li  in  -rt-  a -
cost -odnoh  lag  ithi    --,stoah     -o-ca  of acot   -. inas - lar  1    _-es             iatnatd romineion-  tI-o AbtnoePoet   ntre___                        rea t - rban
rnssaoclaocoona,Idlipl-1th-rIh, hoonaa,ifenaranr                 -ftchusa i                      ad rural-" etnrfpopa1lai-rfee- io-  enrol  ah.e "I ooo
lon   hntopid    iPro-rioeipn f_                    hdp i  tocfingtlhe                         pop
iccocc  o'aen   laponljte -n   o  --ociuto - -d  toal -      c    .ad   ao
Poplaton  or  hp -oi   i-POo.lath  lIol        hc ec -br  ofpatsn    ha--nAntI -i Intal tat  D~ ,Ic-iatt                                                                            -
PaKuattn  pe  Noslijrosc  -P'op~iaiaidlldad  by Icn  ro   otlIeg                                                                                 Rn,- 19R2
I'llaaIdfra     -sed-atoss.asnaa   uaocr.nlo,noe



23 -ANNEX I
23 -                                                Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Estimate           Projected
Indicator                             1980           1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                   15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                    21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                    15,494           7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings             17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4         7.5          5.0         5.0
Agriculture                  54      47      32      26     22      17         2.7           4.1         4.1         2.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2          12.0         9.7         5.5          6.5
Services                     32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8           9.7         9.0         6.5          5.0
Consumption                  91      89      79     70      74      74         4.1           8.4         8.9         5.0          5.0
Gross investment              8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8          18.3        11.7         6.0          4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      31     23      18         3.6           9.2         8.7        -2.4          1.8
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2          22.1        14.0         2.5          3.5
Gross national savings        8       9      17     25      25      22         6.1          23.1        14.4         4.8          5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7            10.1           10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0             8.4            9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                  -2.3           +1.6            +7.1           +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5            3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75              1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9             16.0                15.0              7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.1              4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 3, 1983



- 24 _
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (estimate 1981)                                                                                  Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTSi EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   20,295    20,698   24,125   27,829   42,761   50,179
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   16,541    16,550   19,033   21,772   32,824   38,308
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    3,754          4,148    5,092    6,057    9,937   11,871
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,541   -22,683  -23,507  -25,358  -34,514  -41,856
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,572    -5,053   -4,682   -4,706   -6,591   -7,164
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -15,340   -15,340  -16,466  -18,561  -25,521  -32,022
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586      -659      -975   -2,629    -2,290   -2,359   -2,091   -2,402   -2,670
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    3,459    3,596   -3,246    -1,985           618    2,470    8,248    7,816
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,852    -4,482   -5,210   -6,267   -9,141  -10,719
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514      -772      -819   -1,118    -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -2,605   -2,836
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501      -489      -386   -2,734    -3,163   -3,593   -4,314   -6,536   -7,883
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52        76   -7,099    -6,467   -4,591   -3,798          -894.7 -2,904
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467          100        100       100       100       100       100
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       276        350       450       600       800    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    5,180         5,922    6,384    6,473    6,234    7,091
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,376    -1,720   -2,042   -2,440   -4,052   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131        657       536    1,583    3,803       4,202    4,342    4,033    2,182    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       891   -1,261   -1,454    1,274         1,897       456      -202      -210       -22
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736    1,645           -82      -757      -733    1,977        -45
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    4,709          4,791     5,548    6,282   11,180   12,148
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       3.7        3.8       4.0       4.1       5.3       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system Id                                  -         -    6,906   10,787    8,509        7,091      7,348    8,082   12,980   13,948
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1       6.7        5.6       5.3       5.3       6.2       5.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                         442       484       433       679       802
Bilateral                                381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        68
Other                                     12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                  218       271        61        25       154
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819      973
Payments as % exports Ie                11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                      6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                        5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.7      19.1      19.0      15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As X of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                  30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                 60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7r  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
77  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7r   At end of period.                                                                                     East Asia and Pacific Programs
/e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                           January 3, 1983



- 25 -
ANNE7 II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5             -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -        7.8         1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.5        7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.0        1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -      30.0          1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5     -            1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0      -         19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54'.0    -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0     -            2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0      -          9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0      -         31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0      -          4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0      -           7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0      -          36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0      -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.5      -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0      -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0      -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0      -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -       40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0      -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0      -          17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.0      -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.0        36.9



ANNEX II
- 26 -                     Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0      -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0      -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.0      -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0      -         22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2      -         83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0      -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0       30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -         89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -        104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0       10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0       36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0       33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0       40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0      -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0      -         35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0       28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -         34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -        224.9
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0      -         43.9
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -         44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0      -        205.5
1958.   1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -         41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          80.0
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          70.0
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.0          -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /1            25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1              5.5      -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                         4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                             2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3       4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8     18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 78.6      5.7       84.3
Total held by IFC                                   40.2      12.3      52.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   30.82          0.3      31.12



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                   10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007, 2126)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                        16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                  17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                    20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                       22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                        22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                  23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                               24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                           24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                 25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                        25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                   27
Tourism (479)                                                                    27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                       28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                              29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



- 31 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. The GOI has decided to delay



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control



-33--                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders.  The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project.  The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenzed in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of two ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate. GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%. Institutional support program will continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at tne end of June 1982 were about 60% of
appraisal estimate.



34 _                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources.Development (DG.4RD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DG4RD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI



_ 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult. Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
About 800 families have been settled to date and an estimted 3,000
of the proposed 30,000 families will be settled by the end of the next fiscal
year. Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation delays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives changes in the loan documents would be necessary.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



- 37-                 ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



-38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 31, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project. Extension materials are
being produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the closing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



- 39 -                ANX1
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength. Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system. Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date:  March 11, 198-2; Closing Date:  June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



-40 -                  ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first supervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



- 41                    ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



- 42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun.  Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of coxnpleted
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants.  The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI.  After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984.  A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved.  Disbursements at
the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been completed.  Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finished.  Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered.  The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982.  Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture.  It is expected that disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months.  Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces.  Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed.  All furniture and equipment are
already on site.  About 90% of the staff training program is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating.  The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultants.  Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimate and are expected to continue
to accelerate in the next few months.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricult-aral Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate. The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



- 44 -                 ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site. Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



- 45-                    ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. six
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory. Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX II
- 46 -                     Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the development of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than doubled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country's industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982. The research components -- the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOI's efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



- 48 -                ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released. A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementation has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and delivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be completed by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



- 49 -                  ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



- 50 -                 ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project components, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works programs of support works were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items. Consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of



- 51 -                   ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982. The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



- 52 -                  ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
t979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded. Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government's more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about 15 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



53                   ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



-54 -                                ANNEX III
INDONESIA
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:             18 months
(b) First Bank mission to identify the
project:                                    June 1979
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:               June 1982
(d)  Completion of negotiations:                   December 1982
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                June 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI to:
(a) cause the institutional, technical and financial studies required
for the future sewerage service to be carried out and completed by
consultants in accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to
the Bank; these studies to be completed not later than December 31,
1984, discuss and agree with the Bank by June 30, 1985 on an
appropriate agency for the operation of the sewerage system, and
establish such agency by April 1, 1986 (para. 41); and
(b) cause sewerage charges to be set at levels so that sufficient
revenues would be internally generated to cover operating
expenses, and depreciation or debt service requirements (whichever
is the greater), tariffs to be reviewed at intervals not to exceed
two years, and any surplus internally generated funds to be
applied to the augmentation of the sewerage and and sanitation
system (para. 45).



IBRD 16659
106030                                                        107"                                                              107030                           SEPTEMBER 1982
This map h-t ben prepared by the
World B-nkfs taff e-cles/i-ly for
the covnec   f the reder of
the report to whio, tin ttached
The den-minotions used and the
hounderas shown no this map
do not -mply, on the pert of the
World  -ank ard it affiliates, air
Icdgoeol on the legal status rf
asp terrtory or any endor-eet
or ccptane of -uh bocodarie
-600' 6000-
Tacjung Priok
[hem9 p rmletd am I coi
a  loGdng Te,armn gP"la
>~~~~~~~o gcacX  peoa (DEcb  xiuin    4 rim/sI
Trratm-o Plost V/         MAIARAi
I5 c-Am/Wy/ 7                         Bekpsi             Cika ang
<_ { ( \ ; >, ? \ S:~~~~~~raang
A     rapairty 14 -sm/s  [     v
Zf"fl '~hy 5.8 'Au tatig raP.ity Oh0015
ID, wr-th, tlow  yy                                Acra- cap.cir 55cms l ~W
s u/)2.5                                                         WALA/1AR                   Ckr  e 
!   J ,        a                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~CIBEET  C.,,,Q 
JA TILUhfUR DAM    A
C/PAMINGKIS
Puriakarta                               SuIbang
g     4                                             C/R~~~~           ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A TAl 
INDONESIA                                                                  SAGULIMG DAM
(Under C--ntrurr,ol            
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
WATER RESOURCES
P ROJE CT ARE A
MAIN CANALS
> EXISTING DAM AND RESERVOIR
D   DAMS AND RESERVOIRSlPlanned or Under Construction}
y         WEIRS
PUMPING STATION                                                   _
TREATMENT PLANTS                                                     SUMATERA
ROADS |
RIVE RS|                                                                                           O  reo
MILES  ~       PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                 L                                             A         S>asarao
0         10          20          3D         40                                                                               iYssakcili
KILOMETERS                                       3,          J   
MILES 0  -10                        20               30
106030                                                         107o00.






01~ ~ z 
II   >
~~~*O~~~~~L                                             it(
3 Z-> 
-CS~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 16658
NOVEMBER 1982
I                    -,   B~~~~S   IN
:~ ~~~~~~~~~                                             /
POPULATION  DENSI'Y                   NO       DMENT
. jjj>~ _jtt \' 101-20CT                                                                                                    Io|
Roods !AT                                                                                                                      '/
,              KARasET KUNN I                                                                                                        /4
INDONESIA 
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Population Density and Income Distribution 
Pro,e-r B-nd. "
POPULATION  DENSIT                   EN~CM.E CISR BUTION
Pe--npe  Ho~                         Rcs cen-] A-ec7,
o     00                              L-  IrAYobr                                                                                                                                     '1
C0- 200                              M- 'd 6c
2Ci - 300                             1,gh   coe                                                                                                        /1
Ri-er
-- Ke-uroho   Boj-dr e
0             00           100            150           200                                                                   PBI0l1                                                      14
METERS-  ~
BSB,BB,,B~sOB,BOBrBrrretr eBtBrOeBHBCBr,s                                                                                                    A   V  A
BIlOOrBO BOB coBeres BrBflB ep&srorSBrO,r,rrrrB,/B106rOBrB                                                                     lip-1 ,rB rr,4






IBRD 16660
JAKARTA SENIOVEPBER 1982
/re                                   s             ent a nd iFuture land Use t
/        E81ended Pioei Arecl Boundcry                                                                                                                                      /
Kc ~ 0/,~f mn pr eBnKP R
58A3ricubura c nd Horl cu lurc  Arec                                                                                                          /./G
Rood                                                                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~s-6                                                                                                                  6-'R
INDONESIA I0 1                        200                                |                                                C /b.
JAKARTA SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Present and  Future Land Use                                                                                       '
E t-odeo P,-   A,..  o-ndc,yp
PRESENT        FUTURE         LAND USE
ZIq        B 7                  e, centra  Arek
Rood,
-  Ro,.,,                                              N                             aacr.          >A'                 1121A
0            510          lO            1512          200
I    MET ERS                                                                                                           C,rb-
IBM    198          ~~~~~11,0.      112'           114



