Report No. PID9756
Project Name                     EAST TIMOR-Second Small Enterprises Project    @
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Small Scale Enterprise
Project ID                       TPPE72654
Borrower(s)                      RECIPIENT:  EAST TIMOR
Implementing Agency
Address GOVERNMENT OF EAST TIMOR AND
CAIXA GERAL DE DEPESITOS
GOVERNMENT OF EAST TIMOR, SEP II Project
Implementation Unit
Address: Division of Industry,
Mineral Resources & Tourism; Department of
Economic Affairs; Dili, East Timor
Contact Person:
Candido da ConceiOa Manager
Tel: 670-390-312-210 x5920
Fax: 670-390-322-008
Email: daconceicao@un.org
CAIXA GERAL DE DEPESITOS
Address: Departamento de Timor; Dili,
East Timor
Contact Person: Joao Manuel Tubal Gon6alves,
Director
Tel: 670-390-323-676
Fax: 670-390-323-678
Email:bnu.timor@arafura.net.au
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                September 28, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           January 29 - March 8, 2001
Projected Board Date               September 28, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Issues:(i) Economic situation: Improving East Timor's economic
performance is the key sector issue and has been identified as critical to
East Timor's reconstruction and development over the medium- to
long-term. East Timor's economy was growing solidly in the three years to
1996 at a rate of about 109 per annum.   Following the Asian financial
crisis, GDP growth slowed in 1997 to 4% and then contracted slightly in
1998 by 2%. Post-referendum violence in 1999 is estimated to have reduced
East Timor's 1999 GDP by between 389 and 45%-.  Supported by reconstruction
efforts and the commencement of renewed private sector activity, the IMF
forecast a return to economic growth of 15% year-over-year in calendar
years 2000 and 2001. UNTAET has since estimated economic growth for the
2000-2001 financial year to have reached 50% with forecast growth for
financial year 2002-2003 of 5-15%.   In the immediate aftermath of the
post-referendum violence, inflation was high and variable. Inflation has



since abated and, in fact, UNTAET has estimated that in the 11 months to
May 2001 there was price deflation of 5.5%. The current account deficit
was expected to reach approximately 55% of GDP in early 2001.
Negotiations with Australia regarding arrangements for the Timor Gap oil
and gas resources have been partially concluded resulting in an agreement
for a 90/10 split of revenue proceeds in East Timor's favor. Although
East Timor is already in receipt of minor revenues from the Elang Kakatua
concession, the vastly greater projected revenues from the Bayu Undan and
Greater Sunrise concessions are not expected to commence until 2004-2005.
Only limited long-term private sector investment is materializing. The
majority of investment to date is seeking to meet the one-off demands of
the large international staff presence. Wage and other market distortions
are emerging due to this demand shock. Savings are at a reasonable
level. A formal credit system is not yet functioning beyond nascent
microfinance programs and SEP I's line of credit which is being
intermediated by Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD) of Portugal. However, the
ADB's microfinance project is now underway and the ANZ Bank from Australia
has also established operations in Dili.(ii) Unemployment: UN estimates,
reported in July 2000 by the IMF, suggested underemployment and
unemployment could be as high as 809.   Since then, however, the evidence
indicates that the informal and agricultural sectors seem to be keeping
the vast majority of people gainfully occupied. Several employment
generation projects, including by USAID's Office of Transitional
Initiatives, UNTAET, JICA, and the Community Empowerment Project (CEP),
temporarily mitigated the early unemployment problem to some degree.
Notwithstanding the estimated high underemployment and unemployment IMF
figures, it should be noted that approximately 85% of the population is
occupied to some extent with agriculture. Thus it is likely that the true
level of unemployment and underemployment is relatively low. SEP I is
estimated to have so far directly generated over 1100 new jobs with many
more jobs indirectly generated. The UNDP and ILO are planning to conduct
in July/August 2001 a small study on the informal sector and this should
provide a clearer picture of job take-up rates within the economy. SEP I
evaluation programs are focusing on obtaining an accurate measure of
recent employment generation induced by the project. A cautionary note on
employment is that many of the newly created positions in Dili have been
generated by the one-time-only demand shock of the multilateral donor
effort in East Timor. The impending down-sizing of the international
operations in Dili will have a strong negative impact on employment
levels. The plan to graduate over time the withdrawal of UN and other
international personnel will help soften this negative shock.(iii)
Infrastructure and services conditions: Despite a large scale
rehabilitation effort, many essential services remain unavailable and
infrastructure remains debilitated. This has a strong limiting effect on
restoration of private sector activity and the development of other
areas. All of telecommunications, airlines, transport and shipping remain
weakened compared to pre-1999 capacity. Although a policy on
telecommunications has recently been adopted, it is unlikely that a
national telecommunications system will be in place within the next 18 to
24 months. This has multiple implications for development of the private
sector, especially for enterprises outside of Dili. Banking and public
utility services, and especially electricity outside of Dili, remain
extremely limited and basic. Air services to/from Dili are slowly
improving. The operations of the air and sea ports and customs are
operating relatively efficiently. The road rehabilitation program, given
-2 -



physical and financial constraints, is also proceeding at an effective
rate but commerce is plagued by regular road flooding and wash-outs. (iv)
Preparing for an industrial/service economy: The agriculture sector
relatively rapidly resumed seasonal production following the 1999
destruction which had interrupted cropping cycles. This quick response
lessened the humanitarian impact of the crisis and has since ameliorated
the worst of the unemployment situation. The agriculture sector is now
targeted for large improvements in yield and productivity. The proportion
of workers employed in the agriculture sector is estimated at
approximately 85w; this level will likely fall as workers make the
transition to the industrial/service sector of the economy. In concert
with this, there is the need for: prevention of over-urbanization;
increases in labor and capital productivity; better access to capital;
improved education; and higher capital/labor ratios in production.(v)
Enabling frameworks: In order to enhance the development of the private
sector, several priority frameworks must be improved. This includes the
rule of law, the preservation of peace and security, and sound
administration. The successful implementation of these frameworks will
determine the ability of the private sector to flourish via reduced
investor risk, minimized distortions and corruption, and inflows of
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Pursuant to the forthcoming 30 August
2001 national elections, the Constituent Assembly will form and will be
tasked to prepare and adopt a National Constitution and then transform
into the National Parliament on 15 December 2001. East Timor will then be
better placed to enter into a range of formal international agreements.
During the interregnum, however, the domestic legislative agenda will be
delayed. The achievement of full independence, and thus national
sovereignty, will also confer a number of advantages on East Timor in
areas such as foreign trade and national maritime boundaries. (vi)
Business environment: Numerous issues related to the business environment
require additional attention by government. Microfinance facilities are
not yet readily available. General banking facilities and access to
services and capital remain limited. Other business services such as
legal and accounting remain largely unavailable and, in any case, are
inhibited by the lack of agreed professional standards and conventions.
There is no collateral law. There is no form of regulated security
against which borrowers can apply for credit and no certainty regarding
foreclosure procedures on collateralized assets which may be repossessed
by banks in response to loan default. Also, there is no insurance law and
no regulation on credit information-sharing. Draft company, foreign
investment and labor laws have been prepared but have not progressed
through the administration for many months. Conditions surrounding land
law remain highly uncertain and do not yet provide serious investors with
prerequisite guarantees. Potential and existing foreign and domestic
investors view political risk as high. The Bank's forthcoming Country
Economic Memorandum will make recommendations against some of these
issues.(vii) Recurrent budget implications: SEP II has been designed with
the aim of limiting the potential of the project on the future
government's limited budgetary resources. As in SEP I, repaid loan funds
at the end of the project's life will revert to East Timor's consolidated
revenue.  Assuming an overall rate of repayment of 80w, East Timor will
receive $3.2 million in repaid loan funds at the end of SEP II's life.
Along with repaid loan funds under SEP I and the increased capacity of the
East Timorese involved with the SME lending program, East Timor will be
well resourced to establish an organic SME lending capacity. Other parts
-3 -



of the project are essentially service delivery and explicitly seek future
private sector replication of BDS thus building in sustainability of
off-budget service delivery. The market rehabilitation component includes
an allotment of funds to pay for maintenance and training for market
management groups to ensure self-reliance in the upkeep of the
rehabilitated markets. Steps to ameliorate the risk of general contingent
recurrent budget implications were discussed widely with UNTAET.(viii)
Future negative demand shock: Noting the scheduled timing of elections
and independence, a large portion of the international staff presence will
begin to withdraw during the first year of the life of SEP II. It is
hoped the withdrawal will occur as steadily as possible. But this
withdrawal will cause a large negative demand shock across the economy,
with the effects being most profound in Dili where international spending
is concentrated.(ix) "Timorization": It is becoming increasingly
important to ensure that East Timorese civil servants benefit from
capacity building and skills transferal, especially as the transition to
self-rule approaches. In support of this, it has been agreed that the SEP
II Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be headed by an East Timorese
government official, and staffed by East Timorese professionals. The
notable exception is that an international advisor will be recruited to
assist on a part-time basis with procurement, project and financial
management. Strategy:UNTAET bears the responsibility of governing East
Timor during the transition to self-rule (currently scheduled for 15
December 2001) and has focused first, on humanitarian relief and
establishing security, and thereafter on creating a new regulatory
framework and a social safety net. UNTAET has issued regulations
regarding, inter alia, legal tender, foreign exchange, bank licensing and
supervision, business registration, a services tax, import duty and excise
tax, income and wages tax, and judicial and administrative
arrangements.Based on agreements at the 1999 donors' meeting in Tokyo, the
ADB was given responsibility for infrastructure needs and microfinance,
and IDA was given responsibility for the private and social sectors,
sub-district institution building, and agriculture. Donors also funded
numerous employment generation projects designed to have a quick positive
impact on casual employment rates as well as to help restore essential
infrastructure expeditiously.Creating economically sustainable business
activity and jobs is a cornerstone of East Timor's development strategy,
especially for the medium- and long-term. Accordingly, UNTAET has set
about instituting appropriate enabling frameworks to support the business
environment. UNTAET, in conjunction with the East Timorese leadership,
effected a prudent 2000-2001 budget and a lean civil service. A similarly
prudent 2001-2002 budget has been cast with revenue and expenditure
projections out to 2004-2005. A study of the foreign investment
regulatory environment has been carried out by the Foreign Investment
Advisory Service (FIAS.) SEP I funded an extensive study on land and
property administration in East Timor. Appropriate strengthening of land
issues is seen as an essential means to increasing investment
confidence.UNTAET is also working at institutional strengthening and
increased power-sharing with East Timorese decision-makers in the lead up
to the 30 August 2001 elections. It is recognized that a well-instituted,
small administration, bolstered by a growing economy, will give the
incoming independent government its best chance of success. In support of
this strategy, the TSS calls for support to accelerate the recovery of the
private sector, especially in sectors and industries that generate the
maximum number of new jobs on a competitive basis. Additional assistance
- 4 -



to the private sector in rural and sub-district areas is to be given
priority, as is proposed in SEP II. Further investment in service
industries in Dili is to be limited. This approach supersedes SEP I which
focused more on non-agricultural private sector enterprises which were
facing greater start-up barriers such as the loss of physical capital and
ruined infrastructure as well as the extant absence of credit
facilities.Large (and important) parts of the strategic donor response are
yet to be fully implemented. The business enabling environment remains
only slightly more advanced than at the time of the late 1999 JAM. While
the SEP I-funded land study brought down lucid and workable
recommendations, implementation will be a long term process. The current
policy on foreign investment (with the exception of land investments by
non-resident Indonesian citizens) is to approve all reasonable foreign
ventures (via a supervisory committee system.) Meanwhile, no formalized
and binding foreign investment procedures exist and many attractive
features that reputable foreign investors look for remain absent. Limited
microfinance operations have commenced but otherwise the credit system
remains in disrepair. Along with restricted access to production inputs,
and disrupted demand, these are the major constraints to restoring
sustainable private sector activity.
2. Objectives
The main objectives of the Second Small Enterprises Project are to
generate employment, accelerate economic growth, and improve SME
competitiveness through providing an SME line of credit, capacity building
focused on Private Sector Development (PSD), and rehabilitation of market
infrastructure.The project has three components: the first provides funds
for Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos to make loans to SMEs for business
investment. The second component is capacity building on private sector
development: for SMEs -- business development services, including
training to improve business management; for policy makers-- technical
assistance to develop the analytical skills of operational level PSD
policy makers, and to design and implement business legal and regulatory
environment. The third component finances community-based rehabilitation
of market infrastructure.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Following the post-referendum violence, East Timor has no independently
operating credit or banking system. And until adequate institutions,
laws, and business and sector frameworks are in place, independent banking
operations will either be slow to commence operations or will not commence
at all. This means the supply of credit to East Timor is severely limited
without outside assistance. Further, in the lead-up to the referendum,
the credit culture was affected by a politically motivated program
encouraging East Timorese to default on Indonesian loans. IDA support to
a banking operation such as that offered by CGD provides greater security
to lenders and encourages their activities.Additional value-adding support
is offered in the form of TA for development of the business regulatory
environment and advances in this area are intended to complement the
lending environment in which SEP II operates. Likewise, other components
such as the market rehabilitation component, delivery of Business
Development Services and capacity building for desk-level PSD officials,
will add specific value by both drawing on the Bank's particular expertise
and experience in delivery similar interventions elsewhere and in that
they are all designed to be mutually complementary and reinforcing.
- 5 -



4. Description
Project Component 1 - SME Line of Credit - US$ 4.44 millionSME Line of
CreditTo meet continued outstanding demand for SME loans, and noting that
no other independent SME lending facility is yet available, a further
$4.44 million line of credit will be offered on commercial terms under SEP
II. The SEP II line of credit will draw extensively upon lessons learned
during SEP I. Accordingly, the line of credit will be similar in style
and function to that in SEP I but will incorporate adjustments to the
delivery method, targeting, interest rate and management processes.The
Grant will finance $4.00 million of the $4.44 million SME line of credit.
The Grant contribution of $4.00 million represents 90% of the total credit
line. The remaining 10 percent of the credit line, $0.44 million, would
be contributed by Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD), the financial
intermediary and project entity for the SME line of credit component. CGD
was formerly known as Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos or CGD. This represents
CGD's contribution to a 10 percent risk-sharing arrangement as part of the
line of credit.The SEP II line of credit will provide increased focus on
the agriculture sector and agri-business opportunities, and in support of
this $2.00 million of the total loan funds will be earmarked for
agri-business endeavors. Apart from this earmarked amount, the line of
credit will not seek to target particular agri-business activities (e.g.
equipment for canning or bottling operations, fish and meat processing,
roasting and packaging operations for coffee targeted to the export
market, livestock trading, corn oil production, copra processing). In
addition to the agri-business sector, viable loan applications from other
productive industries such as small-scale carpentry shops, mechanical
centers or manufacturing facilities also will be supported. The SEP II
line of credit will discourage financing of smaller service sector
businesses (i.e. kiosks, taxis, restaurants), especially those deemed more
susceptible to the future negative demand shock expected with the coming
reduction in the size of the international staff presence in East Timor.
A notable exception to this would be businesses servicing the prospective
tourism sector. Consideration may be given to extension of credit to
smaller financial institutions, such as microfinance organizations wanting
to develop their own lending programs for the lower range of SME lending
(say $500 - $1000 loans), especially with the aim of horizontal expansion
of operations into outlying districts and sub-districts.Following a
comprehensive appraisal of the financial institutions in East Timor, it
has been agreed to reappoint CGD, a Portuguese state-owned commercial
bank, as the project entity for SEP II. (The appraisal of the candidate
financial institutions has been separately documented.) In brief, CGD was
determined to be the most appropriate financial intermediary for the
following reasons. First, CGD has built up valuable experience during SEP
I in delivering SME lending in East Timor, especially in the outlying
districts. CGD management has agreed to establish a permanent staff
presence at the district capitals of Dili, Baucau, Maliana, Oecussi. The
staff will hold regularly scheduled office hours in the SEP Business
Development Centers, make disbursements, and track and enforce
repayments. The CGD district staff also will service the remaining
districts, as well as the sub-district levels. This is expected to have a
strong positive effect on district loan management and repayment rates.
The second reason to reappoint CGD is that ANZ, the other full service
bank in East Timor, decided that it was not prepared to administer the
line of credit at this time. Third, the resident microfinance
institutions, whose operations remain strictly microcredit-related, were
- 6 -



fully appraised and deemed to be unsuited at this time to deliver a $4.44
million SME line of credit. Following from the success of their lending
under SEP I, CGD has committed in SEP II to assume 10 percent of the risk
of the line of credit. For example, for every $100 lent under the
project, $90 would be from SEP funds and $10 from CGD. Repayments, too,
would be allocated according to the same 90:10 ratio. Under SEP I, CGD
had none of its own capital at risk. This was an unavoidable arrangement
in SEP I in the aftermath of the devastation following the 1999 popular
consultation. However, noting the improved economic and business climate,
the steady progress toward transition, improved information, and the high
level of repayment to date under SEP I (>84 percent to date), it is
assessed as reasonable and, moreover, advantageous for a portion of
lending risk now to be assumed by CGD. Risk-sharing by CGD will help
improve the loan analysis process, enhance loan management and
performance, and help shore up the credit culture. CGD's assumption of a
small portion of the risk also will transmit a strong signaling effect to
the market that the level of risk involved in lending to SMEs, including
those outside of Dili, has fallen by at least the same amount as the level
of lending risk to be assumed by CGD in SEP II.Like SEP I, the SEP II line
of credit will operate on a revolving basis. Once loan monies are repaid
they become eligible again for re-lending. Following the close of the
project and the final repayment cycle, the repaid loan funds revert to the
future government. One option is for the repaid project funds (estimated
at 80 percent of the original value of the line of credit - $3.2 million)
to be injected into the paid-up capital of the Microfinance Development
Bank planned to be established by the ADB, rather than allocating it to
consolidated government revenue. The funds would then be demarcated as a
separate lending window for SMEs, thus helping to ensure the sustainable
impact of the SEP II SME lending intervention. Another means of enhancing
sustainability is the training and experience in SME lending being accrued
by CGD facilitators as well as by CGD as an organization. In addition,
the capacity-building component of the project (see below) will skill East
Timorese in making loan applications of a standard acceptable to SME
lenders (as distinct from microfinance providers).With a view toward
sustainability of SME lending in East Timor, the interest rate will be
increased to 14 percent per annum from the previous rate of 10 percent,
reflecting a move away from the subsidized rate and toward a more market
rate. As the only commercial entity lending its own funds in East Timor,
CGD expects a return of approximately 18 percent on fully secured US
dollar loans. (It should be noted that SEP loans are not fully secured.)
Given the high risk environment, it is calculated that another commercial
bank on-lending its own capital would seek a significant interest spread
on top of LIBOR that would put interest rates over 20 percent. The rate
of 10 percent per annum under SEP I, therefore, includes a substantial
subsidy. As in SEP I, the SEP II maximum loan term will remain at 36
months with an initial grace period of up to three months, in which case
interest is capitalized. The repayment period should be as short as
feasible and no loan repayment should be due after December 31, 2004. The
terms and conditions of loans and services provided by CGD will remain the
same. SEP II loans will normally be available in the range of $1,000 to
$50,000.IDA, in coordination with Government, will conduct a review of the
line of credit once $2.00 million of the $4.44 million is approved for
lending by CGD. This is in addition to regular supervision missions by
the Bank and other monitoring and audit procedures by the PIU. Further,
should the loan performance rate fall beneath 80 percent then a review of
- 7 -



the portfolio and procedures is triggered. This will be conducted by IDA
in coordination with Government.Project Component 2 - PSD
Capacity-building - US$ 2.28 millionPSD Capacity-buildingThe Grant will
provide a total of $2.24 million to finance the following activities:A.
Business Development Services:       1.  Consultant services for the
operation and maintenance of the Business Development Center (BDC)
network.      2.   Consultant services to deliver Business Skills Training
via the BDCs and other facilities.       3.  Goods to furnish and equip the
four Business Development Centers.B.   Civil Servant Training:       1.
Consultant services to deliver training on PSD issues to government staff
members.C.  Business/Regulatory Environment       1.   Consultant services
to provide technical assistance on the development of the
business/regulatory framework.A. Business Development Services - $1.88
millionConsistent with the recommendations of the JAM and the TSS, and
noting persistent and reasoned demand from the East Timorese leadership,
business and wider community, and other agencies and donors working in
East Timor, SEP II will finance a large commitment to the building of
private sector capacity. The main objective of BDS financed under the
project is to generate employment and increase productivity and economic
growth.A principal underpinning of the Business Development Services (BDS)
component is the line of credit. Specific BDS will be targeted to both
existing and potential SEP I and SEP II borrowers. For approved
borrowers, wide-ranging support will be offered to manage and develop the
businesses, thus ensuring a higher level of loan performance. Potential
borrowers will be assisted in developing a sound and well-presented
project proposal before submission of a formal loan application to the
implementing bank.BDS is also acutely required for much broader purposes:
to build the capacity of the broader private sector community, especially
in the 12 districts outside of Dili; to provide services to private
microfinance providers and borrowers under other credit projects
(including the credit unions to be rehabilitated under the ADB project);
and, to provide training to business associations and market management
groups. SEP II will provide for the contracting of the services of a
consulting firm to deliver the training component under SEP II. A central
tenet of the SEP II training component, as in SEP I, is to make a strong
investment in train-the-trainer programs which will run over the life of
the project. SEP II will finance the delivery of BDS via a variety of
platforms. SEP I allocated financing for the rehabilitation of buildings
obtained from government under a two-year "public use" lease to become
Business Development Centers (BDCs). While the rehabilitation work of the
BDC sites is funded under SEP I, a consulting firm will be contracted
under SEP II to provide management and coordination of the BDCs and the
coordination office. The four BDC sites -- Dili, Baucau, Oecussi and
Bobonaro -- were chosen on the basis of a variety of factors including
need, location and potential utility, and will be tasked (with the
exception of Oecussi) to deliver services to the subordinate districts
without dedicated BDCs. In support of the operations of the BDC network,
a small separate office to be known as the BDC coordination office will be
attached to the Dili BDC. The main task of the BDCs is to facilitate the
delivery of BDS. Another principal function of the BDCs, through training
to interested parties and demonstration effects, is to encourage the
private sector replication of their services and facilities. The
imposition of (in most cases, nominal) fees for services will be an
important part of BDS delivery. The main purpose of fees will be to
secure user commitment, rather than cost recovery, and to help pave the
- 8 -



way for later private sector commercialization of BDS. The fee structure
will be concluded by the BDC consulting firm, and subject to review and
approval by government and IDA.B. Civil Service Training on PSD - $0.15
millionA small (15-30 person) group of the East Timorese civil service
will be given training in PSD theory and practice. The intent of the
training is to build awareness of PSD issues within the public sector and
to help prepare the civil service -- during and beyond the transition to
independent government -- to deal with the various PSD policy issues they
are likely to confront. The chosen staff will be drawn in large part from
the Department of Economic Affairs. This approach is intended to help
ensure that future PSD policy-making is well informed. The training, to
be spread over the life of the project, will seek to demonstrate the
coincidence between the coursework and the practical daily requirements of
the recipient's work. The training will be delivered in East Timor, in
generally brief (3-5 day) workshops for each phase. SEP II will fund the
services of a consulting firm to provide the comprehensive training
program to this target group over the life of the project.C. Business
Regulatory Environment - $0.25 millionA central impediment to the
successful development of East Timor's private sector in the medium- to
long-term is the lack of a functioning business enabling environment. As
East Timor takes on more and more of the precepts of an independent
country, it will need additional resources devoted to the emplacement of a
modern, international best-practice, and highly suitable private sector
enabling framework. Given this, SEP II is including this component to
provide sharply targeted assistance to the development of the business
enabling environment. Thus, the work of this component is supportive of,
and integrated with, the other aspects of this project, especially the
lending program and the skilling of the public sector PSD staff. This
component also is intended to follow on from the regulatory work done on
the land and property administration in East Timor -- so important to PSD
-- under SEP I.To implement this component, a consulting firm will be
contracted to deliver ongoing technical assistance to the Department of
Economic Affairs on a part-time basis. And, in an effort to build
capacity beyond the public sector, the firm will be requested to
sub-contract East Timorese lawyers as part of the team delivering the
technical assistance. The goal is to abet local domestic capacity to
consider and advance appropriate legislation and regulation, both from a
technical legal point of view and especially from the point of view of
practical policy implications. The range of areas to be supported will be
wide, should not be overly prescribed at the outset of SEP II's project
life, and will be somewhat subject to the discretion of the incumbent
relevant minister for economic affairs.Project Component 3 - Market
Rehabilitation - US$ 1.00 millionMarket RehabilitationThe Grant will
provide a total of $1.00 million to fund sub-grants to the 13 districts of
East Timor for market rehabilitation. In addition to supporting the
creation of sustainable jobs through the SEP II lending program, the
enhancement of the regulatory environment and BDS delivery, the appraisal
work found strong demand and need for improved marketplace facilities,
both at the district and sub-district level. Although some rehabilitative
work on marketplaces has already occurred, the vast majority of active
produce and goods markets remain in a state of either partial or total
destruction or in a dilapidated condition due to lapsed maintenance. As a
consequence, farmers and traders have often resorted to selling their
goods on crowded sidewalks of larger district capitals, or at makeshift
shelters surrounding the inoperative marketplaces. Such marketplace
- 9-



infrastructure is an important economic and social focal-point for the
population, benefiting a wide segment of the society. Marketplace
rehabilitation work will have multiple benefits: employment generation at
the district and sub-district levels; enhancement of valuable construction
skills; and facilitation of improved trading conditions.As mentioned
above, a small amount of market rehabilitation work has already occurred
in the districts although several large projects have been implemented in
Dili and Comoro. In order to determine what market rehabilitation work
had been carried out or planned, as part of its pre-appraisal work IDA
sent a survey to each district office and to the principal agencies
involved with market rehabilitation. (The collated results of this survey
are included in Annex 11). In short, the survey found relatively even
demand for further market rehabilitation work across all districts.
Taking into account the survey's findings, this component will allocate
funds of $1 million roughly according to the relative populations of the
13 districts as follows: Dili - $167,000; Baucau - $120,000; Ermera -
$111,000; Bobonaro - $84,000; Viqueque - $80,000; Lautem - $68,000;
Oecussi - $66,000; Ainaro - $59,000; Liquica - $55,000; Kovalima -
$54,000; Manufahi - $48,000; Manatuto - $45,000; and Aileu - $43,000. The
BDS component will complement this market rehabilitation work in that it
will provide capacity building training to market management groups to
help them develop market management and maintenance plans.Following the
survey and other appraisal work, and to help ensure the best allocation of
resources, it has been determined to devolve responsibility for the
implementation of this component to the district administrations working
under guidance from the PIU. UNTAET/ETTA district offices are to seek
(especially from the sub-districts) expressions of interest from various
community-based market management groups. In many cases, rehabilitation
work may only require a few thousand dollars. In other cases, larger
marketplaces may require greater amounts of work. It will be up to the
district administrations, in consultation with local communities, to
prioritize the need for each proposed rehabilitation project. The
community will assume responsibility, under district administration
supervision, to manage and implement the rehabilitation work and to
sub-contract services as necessary. Based on guidelines provided by the
PIU for operating these sub-grants, each district office shall seek
proposals from community-based market management groups for the
rehabilitation of their markets.Project Component 4 - PIU Technical
Assistance - US$0.31 million PIU Technical AssistanceUnder this component,
the Grant will provide $0.26 million to finance the following
activities:A. Consultant services to provide technical assistance to the
Project Implementation Unit.B. Incremental operating costs for the Project
Implementation Unit.C. Consultant services to provide for audits of the
project.D. PIU training, including travel costs.E. Miscellaneous items for
the PIU office.A PIU will be established within the Department of Economic
Affairs; Division of Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism to oversee
SEP II implementation. The PIU will manage contracts for consultant
services; submit related payment requests to CGD; oversee allocations for
market rehabilitation; and produce monthly and other required reports on
the project.   An East Timorese government official has been appointed to
the project as manager. The Grant will provide funding for technical
assistance, including the following consultants: Finance Specialist,
Business Development Specialist, Procurement Specialist. These three
consultants, East Timorese nationals, will be aided by an international
consultant to provide project management consulting, financial and
- 10 -



procurement services and maximum skills transfer. The PIU will be located
in the Fomento Building.    A further $10,000 has been set aside to fund
environmental reviews, as necessary, of proposed projects to be financed
under the SME line of credit and the market rehabilitation component.
Government will contribute staff, equipment and infrastructure estimated
to cost $0.05 million.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost $8.03 million (including $7.50 million from the Grant)
6. Implementation
The two main institutions involved are CGD and the government of East
Timor.CGD. CGD is the project entity for implementation of the SME line
of credit. CGD will:follow standard commercial bank practices, and rules
as defined in the Project Manual to screen, evaluate and make decisions on
loan proposals.provide loans from $1000 to $50,000 at 14t interest, with a
grace period of up to 3 months (with capitalization of interest). A
maximum repayment period of 36 months, including the grace period, is
permitted. All loan repayments should be completed by December 31, 2004.
CGD will provide current accounts at no cost to borrowers and pay foreign
suppliers directly without charging money transfer fees.      contribute CGD
capital at the rate of 10t of the total loan amount.    Thus, for every $100
that is lent under the project, $10 will be CGD capital, and $90 will be
from the Grant funds. The repayments of principal will be restored to CGD
at the same rate of 10%.hold regular office hours in the Dili headquarters
of CGD, and in the Business Development Centers in Baucau, Maliana, and
Oecussi. The district space will be provided to CGD in order to carry out
transactions under the project; remuneration from CGD will not be
sought.provide staff, transportation and security to service the district
and sub-district populations beyond the four aforementioned districts in
order to receive loan applications; disburse loan funds and collect
repayments; and make regular visits to borrower projects. (District
facilities, aerial transportation and security will require assistance
from and coordination with the government.)use loan repayments to provide
additional loans until the scheduled end of the project, December 31,
2003. However, in the event that the level of loan performance falls
beneath 80t CGD shall cease the extension of any new loans, government and
IDA will carry out a review of the loan portfolio and determine and agree
on an appropriate course of remedial action.improve the Management
Information System (MIS) under the project. The new MIS will track and
allow for calculations of loan performance and collection ratios
(including portfolio at risk by age, arrears rate, repayment rate, current
recovery rate), and efficiency ratios.In addition, CGD will:provide
monthly reports and statements of the operations under the loan program to
the PIU and to IDA as well as succinct tables, quarterly reports and
annual reports as required.allow an independent auditor to review the
project accounts each year. CGD will be audited by an international audit
firm that is acceptable to IDA; the audit by this firm, provided that it
also provides more detailed audits of the loans under the project, would
be acceptable. The audits need to be available within six months after
the end of the fiscal year. CGD also will allow IDA staff to review
progress during supervision missions.Compensation for CGD administration
of the SME Line of Credit will be: CGD operating costs are to be covered
with the 1.59 loan approval fee and the repayment of the interest fee of
- 11 -



14%.  The fee levels were calculated assuming an 80% collection rate and
an average loan repayment period of 2 years to cover monthly costs.To
remunerate CGD for the 10% capital contribution to the loan amount as
noted above, 10% of the principal component of each repayment will go to
CGD, reflecting the same percentage of the capital contribution of
CGD.From December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004, all repayment proceeds
will be held in a non-interest bearing account with CGD in the name of the
government. By January 31, 2005, CGD will provide the government a
financial statement with full disclosure of incomes and expenditures under
the loan program.The implications of these provisions are discussed in
Section E.2, Financial Analysis. (See Annex 4 for forecast cash flow, not
including CGD's income from the government's non-interest bearing
account.)Because the supervision of IDA normally ends when the Project
Grant is fully disbursed, while the loan program will continue
implementation beyond this completion date, the above safeguard provisions
and dates have been agreed with the government and CGD and recorded in
minutes of negotiations. This will supplement the Implementation Program
included in the Project Agreement. If the project completion date is
changed, then CGD and the Government will agree on the disposition/use of
the funds.PIU. A PIU will be established within the Department of
Economic Affairs; Division of Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism.
The PIU will be responsible for the overall monitoring and coordination of
the project on behalf of government; managing procurement contracts;
overseeing allocations for market rehabilitation; and, producing monthly
and other required progress reports on the project to IDA.     An East
Timorese government official has been allocated to the project as PIU
manager. The PIU will have other full-time East Timorese staff: Finance
Specialist, responsible for project bookkeeping and financial management,
and PIU tasks under the SME Line of Credit component; Business Specialist,
responsible for PIU tasks under PSD Capacity-building component and Market
Rehabilitation component; and Procurement Specialist, responsible for
procurement processing and contract management. Also, a PIU international
consultant will be contracted on a part-time basis over the life of the
project to provide management, financial and procurement consulting
services and maximum skills transfer. Other East Timorese staff will be
appointed as consultants to the project as necessary. The PIU will be
located within the Fomento government building.
7. Sustainability
The project aims to generate a sustainable impact via all of its lending,
capacity-building and market rehabilitation components. At the
micro-level, the line of credit is designed to provide credit to viable
private businesses which will continue to operate well beyond the
immediate life of the project. At the macro-level, the lending is
designed to help kick-start the overall private sector, and to foster
private sector replication of SME lending. The project's other components
such as private sector capacity building are all designed to produce
sustainable long-term benefits, even though the project itself is only
scheduled to run for two years. A central tenet throughout the delivery
of the BDS component is the aim of promoting private sector replication of
the BDS. The support to the business regulatory environment is designed
to produce a long-term enabling framework with long run benefits. The
market rehabilitation component's employment generation will be more short
term in nature but the benefits of improved market facilities will provide
sustained benefits in terms of improving access to markets and attracting
- 12 -



more traders. Sustainability is also addressed individually in each
component description.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Although SEP I is still at a relatively early stage of implementation, the
experience gained during SEP I is of considerable benefit in designing and
implementing SEP II. The limiting effect of weaknesses of physical
infrastructure on banking operations is apparent. The continuing lack of
uncertainty regarding land and property title reduces the viability and
bankability of many business projects. By extension, the lack of a
securities law allowing lenders to take mortgages also restricts credit
provision. The limited capacity of human resources in East Timor hampers
implementation.SEP I has so far revealed considerable difficulties in
disbursement. This is largely due to procedural and training
impediments. In some cases, there has been an overly long delay between
approval of a loan and disbursement. Disbursement delays were also
experienced in the Albanian microcredit project which ran from 1995 to
1999 during a difficult domestic period, causing implementation
difficulties. The Albanian project was also hampered by weak counterpart
capacity.There is a raft of information available on previous lessons
learned in pursuing the establishment of centers similar to the BDCs to be
funded and established under SEP I. These lessons learned have been
carefully incorporated into the design of the BDS portion of SEP II. In
particular, there will be considerable emphasis on delivering appropriate
training not just in small business skills and office management, but also
promoting private sector replication of the services in order to ensure
sustainability.IDA also has considerable experience in the delivery of
credit programs, including to the agriculture sector. Key lessons learned
in the past include avoiding a supply-push element to the lending program,
and incorporating market-based elements into the lending process from the
time of inception. SME lending experience has repeatedly shown the need
to avoid targeting of credit except in the broadest sense, as in the case
of SEP II where half of the line of credit is earmarked for
agri-businesses. Interest rate policy is also important and, in general,
lessons learned suggest that arbitrarily set interest rates produce a
distortionary effect causing harm to the financial sector. However, in
the case of East Timor where the initial task is simply to restore an
initial supply of credit, and there is no private sector provider of such
SME credit, the rate of interest to be applied to SEP II loans will not
produce long-term distortive effects.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        It is possible to draw heavily on the experience of
SEP I in forecasting the likely environmental issues in SEP II. The most
likely adverse environmental impact will be caused by the granting of SEP
II loan funds to potentially environmentally adverse businesses, for
example, a metal-works. On a case-by-case basis an independent
environmental consultant will be contracted to review the proposed
investment. To date, there has not been such a case during the course of
implementation of SEP I. In the normal course of events, the implementing
agency, if processing a loan for a project likely to cause environmental
damage, would notify the PIU which would then engage the environmental
consultant. Both the PIU and CGD need to exercise good sense in
- 13 -



determining if any disbursement of SEP II funds might have an adverse
environmental impact and, erring on the side of caution, should refer any
doubts to IDA. It is also remotely possible that the construction of the
BDCs might cause environmental damage in which case the PIU would also
organize an independent environmental review.Impact on human health and
safety is an issue of relevance to SEP II. The PIU should review closely
any application for SEP II funds from a business which might pose visible
or excessive risk to its employees or associates.
11. Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Desiree Green
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2038
Fax:   (202) 614-0636
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 12, 2001.
- 14 -



