Document of
The World Banik
Report No: 22885 TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.5 MILLION
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 28, 2001
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = US Dollar
LC = US$l
US$1    LC
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
ANZ            Australia and New Zealand Banking Corporation
BDS            Business Development Services
BNUJ           Banco Nacional IJltramarino
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEP            Community Empowerment Project
CGD            Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos
ETlTA          East Timor Transitional Administration
FIAS           Foreign Investment Advisory Services
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IOM            International Organization for Migration
JAM            Joint Assessment Mission
PIIU           Project Implementation Unit
PMU            Project Management Unit
PSD            Private Sector Development
SME            Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises
SPPF           South Pacific Project Facility
TFET           Trust Fund for East Timor
TSS            Transitional Support Strategy
iJNCHS         United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
UNTAE T        United National Transitional Administration in East Timor
USAID         tJnited States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-diii Kassum
Counltry Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director:    Javed Hamid
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Desiree Green



EAST TIMOR
SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Developimnent Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Coun-try Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benlefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         1 5
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                          19
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     26
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            28
2. Otlher                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          30
I. Compliance witlh Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    37
Anlex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           45
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  61
Annlex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           62
Annex I 1: Matrix of Completed, Current and Planned Market Rehabilitation Work in East Timor  64
Annex 12: Business Development Center Network - Chart of BDC Organization, Objectives and  65
Functions
Annex 13: SEP 11 Project Implementation Unit                                             66
MAP(S)
IBRD 30626R



EAST TIMOR
Second Small Enterprises Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASPS
Date: September 27, 2001                           Team Leader: Desiree Green
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland            Sector Manager/Director: Loup J. Brefort, Javed Hamid
Project ID: P072654                                Sector(s): DS - Small Scale Enterprise
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SlL)  Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit    [X] Grant    [ 3 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 7.50
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               0.08            0.00          0.08
SPECIAL FINANCING                                                5.42            2.08          7.50
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                               0.44            0.00          0.44
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                           5.95            2.08          8.03
Borrower/Recipient: RECIPIENT: EAST TIMOR
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY & DEVELOPMENT; CAIXA GERAL DE DEPOSITOS
SEP 11 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Address: Ministry of Economy and Development, Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Candido da Conceicao, Head of PIU
Tel: 670-390-312-210 x5920            Fax: 670-390-322-008             Email: daconceicao(aun.org
Other Agency(ies):
CAIXA GERAL DE DEPOSITOS
Address: Departamento de Timor; Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Joao Manuel Tubal Gon,alves, Director
Tel: 670-390-323-676            Fax: 670-390-323-678             Email: bnu.timor(arafura.net.au
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2002       2003       2004
Annual    6.00         1.00       0.50
Cumulative    6.00        7.00       7.50
Project implementation period: 11/01/2001 - 12/31/2003



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Alnex 1)
The main objectives of the Small Enterprises Project It (SEP 11) are to generate employment, accelerate economic
growth, and improve SME competitiveness through providing an SME line of credit, capacity building focused on
Private Sector Development (PSD), and rehabilitation of market infrastructure.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Ainex 1)
Line of Credit:
(i)    Number of loans approved
(ii)    Value of loans approved
(a)    as percentage of total available funds
(b)    as percentage of total funds approved to women
(iii)    Value of disbursements
(a)    as percentage of total available funds
(b)    as percentage of total funds approved
(iv)    Number of new jobs directly created
(a)    as percentage of new jobs for women
(v)    Average loan size
(vi)    Number of loans rescheduled
(vii)   Repayment rate
(viii)   Portfolio at risk by age
(a)    I
(b)    30
(c)    60
(d)    90
(e)    90+
Private Sector Development:
(i)    Number of Business Development Services (BDS) delivered
(ii)    Number of trainers trained
(iii)    Number of training recipients
(iv)    Number of new private sector BDS providers
(v)    Number of supported business regulatory initiatives
(vi)    Number of trained public sector officials
Market Rehabilitation:
(i)    Number of markets rehabilitated
(ii)    Number of market management groups trained
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Alnlnex 1)
Document number: 21184-TP Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/28/00
Noting that East Timor is not yet a member of IDA, a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) (report number
21184-TP dated November 3, 2000) rather than a CAS guides IDA's work in East Timor. The TSS, borne out of
the Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) to East Timor in October/November 1999, maintains five principal objectives:
(i)    Focus on the basic development issues in the short-term: This emphasizes provision of social safety nets,
promoting private sector recovery and restoring education and health services.
(ii)    Help prepare for independence: This requires attention to management of economic and sectoral policy
and capacity- and institution-building, all designed to help ensure a smooth transition to independence.
(iii)    Build local ownership of the development process: This is designed to strengthen the sustainability and
suitability of the development program, to build local capacity, and increase transparency.
(iv)    Foster strong aid coordination: Experience has shown, especially in post-conflict situations, that aid
coordination is vital.
(v)    Sequence interventions to match program and policy timing with capacity: This essentially requires that
the political impact of development work be carefully considered. There must be careful sequencing between the
humanitarian phase of assistance to East Timor and the reconstruction and development phase and the matching of
projects with institutional and community capacity.
It needs to be recalled that the TSS is not a complete substitute for a CAS and therefore the TSS does not contain a
breakdown of sectoral objectives. The TSS does, however, make specific reference to the private sector and calls
for support to those areas which are most likely to be sustainable and of greatest benefit to the poor. The TSS
recognizes the central role that PSD will play in East Timor's reconstruction and development and calls for "an
exceptional package of support for training and credit for (Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises) (SMEs)...,'
especially to rural areas. The central importance of the sustainable recovery of the private sector to the ongoing
development process in East Timor has been repeatedly underscored, first by the JAM, then TSS, and most recently
in UN, World Bank and IMF reports delivered to the donors' meetings in Brussels in December 2000 and in
Canberra in June 2001 (see Annex 10 for details).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues:
(i)    Economic situation: Improving East Timor's economic performance is the key sector issue and has been
identified as critical to East Timor's reconstruction and development over the medium- to long-term. East Timor's
economy was growing solidly in the three years to 1996 at a rate of about 10% per annum. Following the Asian
financial crisis, GDP growth slowed in 1997 to 4% and then contracted slightly in 1998 by 2%. Post-referendum
violence in 1999 is estimated to have reduced East Timor's 1999 GDP by between 38% and 45%. Supported by
reconstruction efforts and the commencement of renewed private sector activity, the IMF forecast a return to
economic growth of 15% year-over-year in calendar years 2000 and 2001. UNTAET has since estimated economic
growth for the 2000-2001 financial year to have reached 50% with forecast growth for financial year 2002-2003 of
5-15%. In the immediate aftermath of the post-referendum violence, inflation was high and variable. Inflation has
since abated and, in fact, UNTAET has estimated that in the 11 months to May 2001 there was price deflation of
5.5%. The current account deficit was expected to reach approximately 55% of GDP in early 2001. Negotiations
with Australia regarding arrangements for the Timor Gap oil and gas resources have been partially concluded
- 3 -



resulting in an agreement for a 90/10 split of revenue proceeds in East Timor's favor. Although East Timor is
already in receipt of minor revenues from the Elang Kakatua concession, the vastly greater projected revenues from
the Bayu Undan and Greater Sunrise concessions are not expected to commence until 2004-2005. Only limited
long-term private sector investment is materializing. The majority of investment to date is seeking to meet the
one-off demands of the large international staff presence. Wage and other market distortions are emerging due to
this demand shock. Savings are at a reasonable level. A formal credit system is not yet functioning beyond
nascent microfinance programs and SEP l's line of credit which is being intermediated by Caixa Geral de
Dep6sitos (CGD) of Portugal. However, the ADB's microfinance project is now underway and the ANZ Bank from
Australia has also established operations in Dili.
(ii)    Unemployment:  UN estimates, reported in July 2000 by the IMF, suggested unlderemployment and
unemployment could be as high as 80%. Since then, however, the evidence indicates that the informal and
agricultural sectors seem to be keeping the vast majority of people gainfully occupied. Several employment
generation projects, including by USAID's Office of Transitional Initiatives, UNTAET, JICA, and the Community
Empowerment Project (CEP), temporarily mitigated the early unemployment problem to some degree.
Notwithstanding the estimated high underemployment and unemployment IMF figures, it should be noted that
approximately 85% of the population is occupied to some extent with agriculture. Thus it is likely that the true
level of unemployment and underemployment is relatively low. SEP I is estimated to have so far directly generated
over 1100 new jobs with many more jobs indirectly generated. The UNDP and 1LO are planning to conduct in
October/November 2001 a small study on the informal sector and this should provide a clearer picture of job
take-up rates within the economy. SEP I evaluation programs are focusing on obtaining an accurate measure of
recent employment generation induced by the project. A cautionary note on employment is that many of the newly
created positions in Dili have been generated by the one-time-only demand shock of the multilateral donor effort in
East Timor. The impending down-sizing of the international operations in Dili will have a strong negative impact
on employment levels. The plan to graduate over time the withdrawal of UN and other international personnel will
help soften this negative shock.
(iii)   Infrastructure and services conditions: Despite a large scale rehabilitation effort, many essential services
remain unavailable and infrastructure remains debilitated. This has a strong limiting effect on restoration of
private sector activity and the development of other areas. All of telecommunications, airlines, transport and
shipping remain weakened compared to pre-1999 capacity.  A telecommunications regulation was recently
adopted, but it is unlikely that a functioning telecommunications system will be in place before the end of 2002.
This has multiple implications for development of the private sector, especially for enterprises outside of Diii.
Banking and public utility services, and especially electricity outside of Dili, remain extremely limited and basic.
Air services to/from Dili are slowly improving. The operations of the air and sea ports and customs are operating
relatively efficiently. The road rehabilitation program, given physical and financial constraints, is also proceeding
at an effective rate but commerce is plagued by regular road flooding and wash-outs.
(iv)    Preparing for an industrial/service economy: The agriculture sector relatively rapidly resumed seasonal
production following the 1999 destruction which had interrnipted cropping cycles. This quick response lessened
the humanitarian impact of the crisis and has since ameliorated the worst of the tinemploymenit situation. The
agriculture sector is now targeted for large improvements in yield and productivity. The proportion of workers
employed in the agriculture sector is estimated at approximately 85%; this level will likely fall as workers make the
transition to the industrial/service sector of the economy. In concert with this, there is the need for: prevention of
over-urbanization; increases in labor and capital productivity; better access to capital; improved education; and
higher capital/labor ratios in production.
(v)     Enabling frameworks:  In order to enhance the development of the private sector, several priority
frameworks must be improved. This includes the rule of law, the preservation of peace and security, and sotind
administration. The successful implementation of these frameworks will determine the ability of the private sector
to flourish via reduced investor risk, minimized distortions and corrmption, and inflows of Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI). Following the 30 August 2001 national elections, the Constituent Assembly has formed and is
nlow commencing deliberations regarding the adoption of a National Constitution. Upon adoption, the Constituent
Assembly will transform into the National Parliament. East Timor will then be better placed to enter into a range
- 4 -



of formal international agreements. During the interregnum, however, the domestic legislative agenda will be
delayed. The achievement of full independence, and thus national sovereignty, will also confer a number of
advantages on East Timor in areas such as foreign trade and national maritime boundaries.
(vi)    Business environment: Numerous issues related to the business environment require additional attention
by government. Microfinance facilities are not yet readily available. General banking facilities and access to
services and capital remain limited.  Other business services such as legal and accounting remain largely
unavailable and, in any case, are inhibited by the lack of agreed professional standards and conventions. There is
no collateral law. There is no fonn of regulated security against which borrowers can apply for credit and no
certainty regarding foreclosure procedures on collateralized assets which may be repossessed by banks in response
to loan default. Also, there is no insurance law and no regulation on credit information-sharing. Draft company,
foreign investment and labor laws have been prepared but have not progressed through the administration for
many months. Conditions surrounding land law remain highly uncertain and do not yet provide serious investors
with prerequisite guarantees. The general lack of property rights is probably the key obstacle in the way of East
Timor's economic recovery. Potential and existing foreign and domestic investors view political risk as high. The
Bank's forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum will make recommendations against some of these issues.
(vii)    Recurrent budget implications: SEP II has been designed with the aim of limiting the potential of the
project on the future government's limited budgetary resources. As in SEP 1, repaid loan funds at the end of the
project's life will revert to East Timor's consolidated revenue. Assuming an overall rate of repayment of 80%, East
Timor will receive $3.2 million in repaid loan funds at the end of SEP Il's life. Along with repaid loan funds
under SEP I and the increased capacity of the East Timorese involved with the SME lending program, East Timor
will be well resourced to establish an organic SME lending capacity. Other parts of the project are essentially
service delivery and explicitly seek future private sector replication of BDS thus building in sustainability of
off-budget service delivery. The market rehabilitation component includes an allotment of funds to pay for
maintenance and training for market management groups to ensure self-reliance in the upkeep of the rehabilitated
markets. Steps to ameliorate the risk of general contingent recurrent budget implications were discussed widely
with UNTAET.
(viii)   Future negative demand shock: Noting the scheduled timing of elections and independence, a large
portion of the intemational staff presence will begin to withdraw during the first year of the life of SEP 11. It is
hoped the withdrawal will occur as steadily as possible. But this withdrawal will cause a large negative demand
shock across the economy, with the effects being most profound in Dili where international spending is
concentrated.
(ix)    "Timorization": It is becoming increasingly important to ensure that East Timorese civil servants benefit
from capacity building and skills transferal, especially as the transition to self-rule approaches. In support of this,
it has been agreed that the SEP 11 Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be headed by an East Timorese
government official, and staffed by East Timorese professionals. The notable exception is that an international
advisor will be recruited to assist on a part-time basis with procurement, project and financial management.
Strategy:
UNTAET bears the responsibility of governing East Timor during the transition to self-rule (currently scheduled
for 15 December 2001) and has focused first, on humanitarian relief and establishing security, and thereafter on
creating a new regulatory framework and a social safety net. UNTAET has issued regulations regarding, inter alia,
legal tender, foreign exchange, bank licensing and supervision, business registration, a services tax, import duty
and excise tax, income and wages tax, and judicial and administrative arrangements.
Based on agreements at the 1999 donors' meeting in Tokyo, the ADB was given responsibility for infrastructure
needs and microfinance, and IDA was given responsibility for the private and social sectors, sub-district institution
building, and agriculture. Donors also funded numerous employment generation projects designed to have a quick
positive impact on casual employment rates as well as to help restore essential infrastructure expeditiously.
- 5 -



Creating economically sustainable business activity and jobs is a cornerstone of East Timor's development strategy,
especially for the medium- and long-term. Accordingly, UNTAET has set about instituting appropriate enabling
frameworks to support the business environment. UNTAET, in conjunction with the East Timorese leadership,
effected a prudent 2000-2001 budget and a lean civil service. A similarly prudent 2001-2002 budget has been cast
with revenue and expenditure projections out to 2004-2005.  A study of the foreign investment regulatory
environment has been carried out by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS). SEP I fuLnded an extensive
study on land and property administration in East Timor. Appropriate strengthening of land issues is seen as an
essential means to increasing investment confidence.
UNTAET continues to work at institutional strengthening and increased power-sharing with East Timorese in the
lead up to the transition to East Timorese administration.  It is recognized that a well-instituted, small
administration, bolstered by a growing economy, will give the incoming independent government its best chance of
success. In support of this strategy, the TSS calls for support to accelerate the recovery of thAe private sector,
especially in sectors and industries that generate the maximum number of new jobs on a competitive basis.
Additional assistance to the private sector in rural and sub-district areas is to be given priority, as is proposed in
SEP II. Further investment in service industries in Dili is to be limited. This approach supersedes SEP I which
focused more on non-agricultural private sector enterprises which were facing greater start-up barriers such as the
loss of physical capital and ruined infrastructure as well as the extant absence of credit facilities.
Large (and important) parts of the strategic donor response are yet to be fully implemented. The business enabling
environment remains only slightly more advanced than at the time of the late 1999 JAM. While the SEP I-ftnded
land study brought down lucid and workable recommendations, implementation will be a long tenr  process. The
current policy on foreign investment (with the exception of land investments by non-resident Indonesian citizens)
is to approve all reasonable foreign ventures (via a supervisory committee system.) Meanwhile, no formalized and
binding foreign investment procedures exist and many attractive features that reputable foreign investors look for
remain absent. Limited microfinance operations have commenced but otherwise the credit system  remains in
disrepair. Along with restricted access to production inputs, and disrupted demand, these are the major constraints
to restoring sustainable private sector activity.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Issues:
(i)     Job creation:  The project seeks to increase sustainable employment in both the agricultural and
non-agricultural sectors. New jobs are to be created via improved access to credit by the agriculture sector, and
delivery of concomitant support such as training to businesses to provide the greatest stimulus to the private sector.
Creation of sustainable jobs will also serve to enhance social cohesion during and after the transition to
independence and the withdrawal of UNTAET.
(ii)    Sustainability of the lending program: Various options could be explored regarding the destination within
government of repaid ftnds under SEP I and SEP 11. To help ensure sustainability of SME lending beyond the life
of SEP I and II, the future East Timorese independent government might give consideration to injecting repaid
SEP I and SEP It loan funds into, for example, the ADB's soon-to-be-established Microfinance Development Bank
to be re-lent to SMEs.
(iii)    Support to sub-district and rural areas: New enterprise initiatives, the creation of new jobs, and support to
rural agriculture projects, are seen as critical to effecting even development throughout East Timor. Support for
such issues at the sub-district level and in rural areas will both mitigate the urbanization trend and improve social
cohesion by lessening the need for economically-forced relocation as well as reducing the risk of urban poverty.
Thus SEP II has a strong focus outside of Dili and beyond district capitals to the sub-district level. Business
training will be extended to micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises beyond district capitals. The SEP II line
of credit will be strongly extended outside of Dili. Market rehabilitation will also focus largely on1 the sub-district
level.
-6 -



(iv)    Focus on agriculture sector: Adding value and productivity to the agriculture sector is crucial to the future
development of East Timor's private sector. SEP 11 will augment the efforts of IDA's Agriculture Rehabilitation
Project through earmarking half of the lending program ($2 million) for agriculture-related businesses. It is worth
noting that so far in SEP I almost half of the loan funds have gone to agriculture-related businesses (including
trucks bought for produce transportation.)
(v)     Development of business regulatory framework: Following on from the extensive UNCHS (Habitat) study
on land and property administration and initial work to establish business support services, fiurther support to
private sector framework development is a priority. UNTAET/ETTA has advanced work in this area and several
key pieces of legislation (company law, foreign investment law) are in draft stage. But additional technical
assistance is required to help guide, in both a legal and policy sense, a broad front of additional regulatory
initiatives. This will include building on work already done by UNTAET/ETTA and providing complementary
assistance to govemment to look ahead to necessary future actions.
(vi)    Capacity building and sustainability: The building of permanent skills among SMEs is critical to the
futLire development of the private sector in East Timor. It is only through enhanced confidence, improved access to
know-how and information, access to key inputs including credit, and ongoing support and training that the private
sector will satisfactorily advance on a sustainable basis. The greatest possible private sector replication of the BDS
delivered in this intervention is necessary to ensure sustainability. Accordingly, SEP 11 incorporates a capacity
building component which focuses on both private sector operators and public sector PSD officials with the aim of
leaving a sustainable repository of skills.
Strategic Choices:
(i)     Focus of the lending program: SEP I focused on non-agriculture sectors. This was mainly because of the
greater potential for quick impact in those sectors and because those sectors faced greater barriers (following
relatively greater loss of physical capital) to restarting their activities than did agriculture. Following SEP I and
the restoration of some normality in the agriculture sector, greater credit extension to the agri-business sector is
desirable to encourage greater productivity and value-adding initiatives. The loan program is to be delivered on
commercial terms, and that means it will be limited to borrowers with viable business propositions. Extensive
consideration was given to the idea of splitting the administration of the lending program into larger loans and
smaller loans. The trade-off of better access to smaller enterprises (via a microfinance institttion) for improved
focus on the larger facilities (by the intermediate bank) was ultimately determined to be unprofitable.
(ii)    Four BDCs are to be funded under SEP I for the purpose of delivery of BDS to communities. The decision
not to have a full network encompassing all 13 districts was based on the assessment that there was inherent risk to
the future govemment's budgetary position; that is, the future govemment may have been compelled to underwrite
any future cost of the buildings, or continuation of the services, after the end of the project life. Only essential civil
works to refurbish buildings that will house the BDCs are being financed under an amendment to SEP 1; all further
costs for the four BDCs, including operations, equipment and repairs, will be financed under SEP 11.
(iii)    Important strategic choices will need to be made during the life of SEP 11 regarding the structuring of
business training, and the identification of industries and business sectors most likely to generate maximum
employment and other economic benefits including export revenues, enhancement of comparative advantage and
improvement of work skills. The early evaluation of the impact of SEP I business skills training will be important
in modeling further business training under SEP 11.
(iv)    Various implementation models were considered for the market rehabilitation component.  Following
initial review of demand and need, and considering limited local implementation capacity, it was initially
suggested to appoint a lead construction firm. However, noting the relatively small amount of money per district,
it has since been agreed to devolve fLilly the responsibility for this community-based rehabilitation work to the East
Timor district administrations.
-7 -



(v)     There were substantial demands for more targeting to be incorporated into the project design. This has
been adopted to the extent that half of the line of credit is earmarked for agri-businesses and that SEP 11 has a
greater emphasis than SEP I on the extension of project services and credit to the sub-district levels. The project's
design has avoided targeting particular economic sub-sectors for priority access to loan funds, although a negative
targeting list has been adopted in order to limit lending to the service sector of the economy, especially in Dili.
Additionally, consideration was given to regulatory support for framework development for specific industries such
as tourism or oil and gas. Such an approach has not been included here however; instead the project design favors
support for the broader enabling environment and capacity building of public sector PSD staff
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed descriptioni and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Component 1 - SME Line of Credit - US$ 4.44 million
SME Line of Credit
To meet continued demand for SME loans, and noting that no other independent SME lending facility is yet
available, a further $4.44 million line of credit will be offered on commercial terms under SEP 11. The SEP II line
of credit will draw extensively upon lessons learned during SEP I. Accordingly, the line of credit will be similar in
style and function to that in SEP I but wiil incorporate adjustments to the delivery method, targeting, interest rate
and management processes.
The Grant will finance S4.00 million of the $4.44 million SME line of credit. The Grant contribution of $4.00
million represents 90% of the total credit line. The remaining 10 percent of the credit line, $0.44 million, will be
contributed by Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD), the financial intermediary and project entity for the SME line of
credit component. CGD was formerly known as Banco Nacional Ultramarino or BNU. This represents CGD's
contribution to a 10 percent risk-sharing arrangement as part of the line of credit.
The SEP 11 line of credit will provide increased focus on the agriculture sector and agri-business opportunities, and
in support of this $2.00 million of the total loan funds will be earmarked for agri-business endeavors. Apart from
this earmarked amount, the line of credit will not seek to target particular agri-business activities (e.g. equipment
for canning or bottling operations, fish and meat processing, roasting and packaging operations for coffee targeted
to the export market, livestock trading, corn oil production, copra processing). In addition to the agri-business
sector, viable loan applications from other productive industries such as small-scale carpentry shops, mechanical
centers or manufacturing facilities also will be supported. The SEP II line of credit will discourage financing of
smaller service sector businesses (i.e. kiosks, taxis, restaurants), especially those deemed more susceptible to the
future negative demand shock expected with the coming reduction in the size of the international staff presence in
East Timor.  A  notable exception to this would be businesses servicing the prospective tourism  sector.
Consideration may be given to extension of credit to smaller financial institutions, such as microfinance
organizations wanting to develop their own lending programs for the lower range of SME lending (say $500 -
$ 1000 loans), especially with the ain of horizontal expansion of operations into outlying districts and sub-districts.
Ineligible business activities -- forming the "negative list" of the project manual -- would include purchase of land;
trade of drugs; sale of weapons; and, activities with a high negative environmental impact.
Following a comprehensive appraisal of the financial institutions in East Timor, it has been agreed to reappoint
CGD, a Portuguese state-owned commercial bank, as the project entity for SEP 11. (The appraisal of the candidate
financial institutions has been separately documented.) In brief, CGD was determined to be the most appropriate
financial intermediary for the following reasons. First, CGD has built up valuable experience during SEP I in
delivering SME lending in East Timor, especially in the outlying districts. CGD management has agreed to
establish a permanent staff presence at the district capitals of Dili, Baucau, Maliana, Oecussi. The staff will hold
regularly scheduled office hours in the SEP Business Development Centers, make disbursements, and track and
enforce repayments. The CGD district staff also will service the remaining districts, as well as the sub-district
levels. This is expected to have a strong positive effect on district loan management and repayment rates. The
- 8 -



second reason to reappoint CGD is that ANZ, the other full service bank in East Timor, decided that it was not
prepared to administer the line of credit at this time.  Third, the resident microfinance institLtions, whose
operations remain strictly microcredit-related, were fully appraised and deemed to be unsuited at this time to
deliver a $4.44 million SME line of credit.
Following from the success of their lending under SEP 1, CGD has committed in SEP 11 to assume 10 percent of
the risk of the line of credit. For example, for every $100 lent under the project, $90 would be from SEP finds and
$10 from CGD. Repayments, too, would be allocated according to the same 90:10 ratio. Under SEP 1, CGD had
none of its own capital at risk. This was an unavoidable arrangement in SEP I in the aftermath of the devastation
following the 1999 popular consultation. However, noting the improved economic and business climate, the steady
progress toward transition, improved information, and the high level of repayment to date under SEP 1 (>84
percent to date), it is assessed as reasonable and, moreover, advantageous for a portion of lending risk now to be
assumed by CGD. Risk-sharing by CGD will help improve the loan analysis process, enhance loan management
and performance, and help shore up the credit culture. CGD's assumption of a small portion of the risk also will
transmit a strong signaling effect to the market that the level of risk involved in lending to SMEs, including those
outside of Dili, has fallen by at least the same amount as the level of lending risk to be asstimed by CGD in SEP 11.
Like SEP 1, the SEP 11 line of credit will operate on a revolving basis. Once loan monies are repaid they become
eligible again for re-lending. Following the close of the project and the final repayment cycle, the repaid loan
ftinds revert to the future government. One option is for the repaid project funds (estinated at 80 percent of the
original value of the line of credit - $3.2 million) to be injected into the paid-up capital of the Microfinance
Development Bank planned to be established by the ADB, rather than allocating it to consolidated government
revenue. The funds would then be demarcated as a separate lending window for SMEs, thus helping to ensure the
sustainable impact of the SEP 11 SME lending intervention. Another means of enhancing sustainability is the
training and experience in SME lending being accrued by CGD facilitators as well as by CGD as an organization.
In addition, the capacity-building component of the. project (see below) will skill East Timorese in making loan
applications of a standard acceptable to SME lenders (as distinct from microfinance providers).
With a view toward sustainability of SME lending in East Timor, the interest rate will be increased to 14 percent
per annum from the previous rate of 10 percent, reflecting a move away from the subsidized rate and toward a
more market rate. As the only commercial entity lending its own funds in East Timor, CGD expects a return of
approximately 18 percent on fully secured US dollar loans. (It should be noted that SEP loans are not fully
secured.) Given the high risk environment, it is calcLtlated that another commercial bank on-lending its own
capital would seek a significant interest spread on top of LIBOR that would put interest rates over 20 percent. The
rate of 10 percent per annum under SEP 1, therefore, includes a substantial subsidy. As in SEP 1, the SEP It
maximum loan term will remain at 36 months with an initial grace period of up to three months, in which case
interest is capitalized. The repayment period should be as short as feasible and no loan repayment should be due
after December 31, 2004. The tenns and conditions of loans and services provided by CGD will remain the same.
SEP II loans will normally be available in the range of $1,000 to $50,000.
IDA, in coordination with Government. will conduct a review of the line of credit once $2.00 million of the $4.44
million is approved for lending by CGD. This is in addition to regular supervision missions by the Bank and other
monitoring and audit procedures by the PIU. Further, should the loan performance rate fall beneath 80 percent
then a review of the portfolio and procedures is triggered. This will be conducted by IDA in coordination with
Govemment.
Project Component 2 - PSD Capacity-building - US$ 2.28 million
PSD Capacity-buildinil
The Grant will provide a total of $2.24 million to finance the following activities:
A. Business Development Services:
1. Consultant services for the operation and maintenance of the Business Development Center (BDC) network.
2. Consultant services to deliver Business Skills Training via the BDCs and other facilities.
-9-



3. Goods to furnish and equip the four Business Development Centers.
B. Civil Servant Training:
I. Consultant services to deliver training on PSD issues to govemment staff members.
C. Business/Regulatory Environment
1. Consultant services to provide technical assistance on the development of the business/regulatory
framework.
A.      Business Development Services - $1.88 million
Consistent with the recommendations of the JAM and the TSS, and noting persistent and reasoned demand from
the East Timorese leadership, business and wider community, and other agencies and donors working in East
Timor, SEP 11 will finance a large commitment to the building of private sector capacity. The main objective of
BDS financed under the project is to generate employment and increase productivity and economic growth.
A principal underpinning of the Business Development Services (BDS) component is the line of credit. Specific
BDS will be targeted to both existing and potential SEP I and SEP 11 borrowers. For approved borrowers,
wide-ranging support will be offered to manage and develop the businesses, thus ensuring a higher level of loan
performance. Potential borrowers will be assisted in developing a sound and well-presented project proposal before
submission of a formal loan application to the implementing bank.
BDS is also acutely required for much broader purposes: to build the capacity of the broader private sector
community, especially in the 12 districts outside of Dili; to provide services to private microfinance providers and
borrowers under other credit projects (including the credit unions to be rehabilitated under the ADB project); and,
to provide training to business associations and market management groups.  SEP 11 will provide for the
contracting of the services of a consulting firm to deliver the training component under SEP 11. A central tenet of
the SEP II training component, as in SEP 1, is to make a strong investment in train-the-trainer programs which
will run over the life of the project.
SEP 11 will finance the delivery of BDS via a variety of platforms. SEP I allocated financing for the rehabilitation
of buildings obtained from government under a two-year "public use" lease to become Business Development
Centers (BDCs). While the rehabilitation work of the BDC sites is funded Linder SEP 1, a consulting firm will be
contracted under SEP 11 to provide management and coordination of the BDCs and the coordination office. The
four BDC sites -- Dili, Baucau, Oecussi and Bobonaro -- were chosen on the basis of a variety of factors including
need, location and potential utility, and will be tasked (with the exception of Oecussi) to deliver services to the
subordinate districts without dedicated BDCs. In support of the operations of the BDC network, a small separate
office to be known as the BDC coordination office will be attached to the Dili BDC.
The main task of the BDCs is to facilitate the delivery of BDS. Another principal function of the BDCs, through
training to interested parties and demonstration effects, is to encourage the private sector replication of their
services and facilities. The imposition of (in most cases, nominal) fees for services will be an important part of
BDS delivery. The main purpose of fees will be to secure user commitment, rather than cost recovery, and to help
pave the way for later private sector commercialization of BDS. The fee structure will be concluded by the BDC
consulting firm, and subject to review and approval by government and IDA.
B.      Civil Service Training on PSD - $0.15 million
A small (15-30 person) group of the East Timorese civil service will be given training in PSD theory and practice.
The intent of the training is to build awareness of PSD issues within the public sector and to help prepare the civil
service -- during and beyond the transition to independent government -- to deal with the various PSD policy issues
they are likely to confront. The chosen staff will be drawn in large part from the Ministry for Economy and
Development. This approach is intended to help ensure that future PSD policy-making is well informed. The
training, to be spread over the life of the project, will seek to demonstrate the coincidence between the coursework
and the practical daily requirements of the recipient's work. The training will be delivered in East Timor, in
generally brief (3-5 day) workshops for each phase. SEP 11 will fund the services of a consulting fin-n to provide
- 10 -



the comprehensive training program to this target group over the life of the project.
C.      Business Regulatory Environment - $0.25 million
A central impediment to the successful development of East Timor's private sector in the medium- to long-term is
the lack of a functioning business enabling environment. As East Timor takes on more and more of the precepts of
an independent country, it will need additional resources devoted to the emplacement of a modern, international
best-practice, and highly suitable private sector enabling framework.  Given this, SEP 11 is including this
component to provide sharply targeted assistance to the development of the business enabling environment. Thus,
the work of this component is supportive of, and integrated with, the other aspects of this project, especially the
lending program and the skilling of the public sector PSD staff. This component also is intended to follow on from
the regulatory work done on the land and property administration in East Timor -- so important to PSD -- under
SEP 1.
To implement this component, a consulting firm will be contracted to deliver ongoing technical assistance to the
Ministry for Economy and Development on a part-time basis. And, in an effort to build capacity beyond the public
sector, the firm will be requested to sub-contract East Timorese lawyers as part of the team delivering the technical
assistance. The goal is to abet local domestic capacity to consider and advance appropriate legislation and
regulation, both from a technical legal point of view and especially from the point of view of practical policy
implications. The range of areas to be supported will be wide, should not be overly prescribed at the outset of SEP
II's project life, and will be somewhat subject to the discretion of the incumbent relevant economic minister.
Project Component 3- Market Rehabilitation - US$ 1.00 million
Market Rehabilitation
The Grant will provide a total of $1.00 million to fund sub-grants to the 13 districts of East Timor for market
rehabilitation.
In addition to supporting the creation of sustainable jobs through the SEP 11 lending program, the enhancement of
the regulatory environment and BDS delivery, the appraisal work found strong demand and need for improved
marketplace facilities, both at the district and sub-district levels.  Although some rehabilitative work on
marketplaces has already occurred, the vast majority of active produce and goods markets remain in a state of
either partial or total destruction or in a dilapidated condition due to lapsed maintenance. As a consequence,
farmers and traders have often resorted to selling their goods on crowded sidewalks of larger district capitals, or at
makeshift shelters surrounding the inoperative marketplaces. Such marketplace infrastructLre is an important
economic and social focal-point for the population, benefiting a wide segment of the society. Marketplace
rehabilitation work will have multiple benefits: employment generation at the district and sub-district levels;
enhancement of valuable construction skills; and facilitation of improved trading conditions.
As mentioned above, a small amount of market rehabilitation work has already occurred in the districts although
several large projects have been implemented in Dili and Comoro.  In order to determine what market
rehabilitation work had been carried out or planned, as part of its pre-appraisal work IDA sent a survey to each
district office and to the principal agencies involved with market rehabilitation. (The collated results of this survey
are included in Annex 11). In short, the survey found relatively even demand for further market rehabilitation
work across all districts. Taking into account the survey's findings, this component will allocate funds of $1
million roughly according to the relative populations of the 13 districts as follows: Dili - $167,000; Baucau -
$120,000; Ermera - $111,000; Bobonaro - $84,000; Viqueque - $80,000; Lautem - $68,000; Oecussi - $66,000;
Ainaro - $59,000; Liquica - $55,000; Kovalima - $54,000; Manufahi - $48,000; Manatuto - $45,000; and Aileu -
$43,000. The BDS component will complement this market rehabilitation work in that it will provide capacity
building training to market management groups to help them develop market management and maintenance plans.
Following the survey and other appraisal work, and to help ensure the best allocation of resources, it has been
determined to devolve responsibility for the implementation of this component to the district administrations
working under guidance from  the PIU.  UNTAET/ETTA  district offices are to seek (especially from  the
sub-districts) expressions of interest from various community-based market management groups. In many cases,
- 11 -



rehabilitation work may only require a few thousand dollars. In other cases, largcr marketplaces may require
greater amounts of work. It will be up to the district administrations, in consultation with local communities, to
prioritize the need for each proposed rehabilitation project. The community will assume responsibility, under
district administration supervision, to manage and implement the rehabilitation work and to sub-contract services
as necessary. Based on guidelines provided by the PIU for operating these sub-grants, each district office shall seek
proposals from community-based market management groups for the rehabilitation of their markets.
Project Component 4 - PIU Technical Assistance - US$0.31 million
PIU Technical Assistance
Under this component, the Grant will provide $0.26 million to finance the following activities:
A.     Consultant services to provide technical assistance to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
B.     Incremental operating costs for the Project Implementation Unit.
C.     Consultant services to provide for audits of the project.
D.     PIU training, including travel costs.
E.     Miscellaneous items for the PIU office.
A PIU will be established within the Ministry for Economy and Development to oversee SEP 11 implementation.
The PIU will manage contracts for consultant services; submit related payment requLests to CGD~ oversee
allocations for market rehabilitation; and produce monthly and other required reports on the project.  An East
Timorese government official has been appointed to the project as manager. The Grant will provide funding for
technical assistance, including the following consultants: Finance Specialist, Business Development Specialist,
Procurement Specialist. These three consultants, East Timorese nationals, will be aided by an international
consultant to provide project management consulting, financial and procurement services and maximum skills
transfer. The PIU will be located in the Fomento Building.  A further $10,000 has been set aside to fund
environmental reviews, as necessary, of proposed projects to be financed under the SME line of credit and the
market rehabilitation component. Government will contribute staff, equipment and infrastructure estimated to cost
$0.05 million.
Indicative               Bank-        % of
Component                       Sector          Costs       % of      financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total        (US$M)   financing
SME Line of Credit                    Financial Sector         4.44        55.3  l    4.00        53.3
Development
PSD Capacity-building                 Small Scale              2.28        28.4        2.24        29.9
Enterprise
Market Rehabilitation                 Private                   1.00       12.5        1.00        13 .3
Infrastructure
PIU Technical Assistance              Institutional            0.31         3.9        0.26         3.5
Development
Total Project Costs                         8.03      100.0        7.50       100.0
Total Financing Required                           8.03       100.0        7.50       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
SEP II is designed to support the key policy and institutional objectives of government. The creation of sustainable
employment and the stimulation of private sector business activity is seen as a critical method of alleviating
poverty, resuming economic growth, and improving social cohesion - all key policy goals identified in thc
October/November 1999 JAM and later reaffinned by the East Timorese leadership.
- 12 -



The central part of this project, as was the case with SEP 1, is the provision of access to SME finance throughout
East Timor. This is intended to allow SMEs to make their own resource allocation decisions and thereby support
the re-commencement of efficient and sustainable private business activity. As East Timor nlow moves from a
reconstruction phase to a more medium- and long-term development phase, SEP 11 has included a component to
help create a suitable and efficient business regulatory environment.
SEP 11 seeks to complement the efforts of others at preventing urbanization through delivering all of loans,
training, BDS and market rehabilitation to the district and sub-district levels. SEP II's SME line of credit is also
serving to resurrect the banking and financial framework in general.  In conjunction with the PSD
capacity-building  component, for example, SEP  II will also  support the establishment of a credit
infonnation-sharing system among lenders.
SEP 11 commits considerable resources to the building of capacity of those involved with the private sector, both to
SMEs through a wide range of training programs and other BDS, and to East Timorese public officials who will
likely work on PSD issues in the years to come.
Finally, the project design has sought to negate the risk of causing any recurrent budgetary costs for the future East
Timorese government. SEP 11 is largely a demand-driven intervention, with a clear time horizon of 26 months.
3. Benefits and target population:
East Timor is an agrarian economy with perhaps 85% of the population living in rural areas and working in
agriculture-related jobs. Prior to the 1999 referendum it was one of the poorest provinces of Indonesia. In
addition, post-referendum violence caused annual GDP to be halved. All parts of East Timorese territory and
society were devastated. Subsequently, humanitarian relief was the centerpiece of early donor efforts. This was
broadly directed across East Timor, to both rural and urban areas. The most urgent humanitarian needs have been
relieved as a result of these efforts.
SEP I was focused on urban populations, both in Dili and other district capitals. Most approved borrowers of SEP
I funds were from district capitals. SEP II will similarly benefit a large cross-section of the East Timorese
community. The project will again focus on the development of the private sector. This time it will focus less on
urban communities and district centers and more on supporting business efforts in the agriculture and
non-agriculture sectors at the district, sub-district and rural levels. Again, the benefits are expected to be spread to
a wide target area. The market rehabilitation component will benefit a wide target population. Likewise, the BDS
is targeted at not only SMEs but also microenterprises.
There is one acutely targeted component of the project which aims to build the skills of a small group of PSD
public officials who will then serve as the repository of knowledge for future PSD work in East Timor by the Bank
and others.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The two main institutions involved are CGD and the government of East Timor.
CGD. CGD is the project entity for implementation of the SME line of credit. CGD will:
I. follow standard commercial bank practices, and rules as defined in the Project Manual to screen, evaluate and
make decisions on loan proposals.
2. provide loans from  $1000 to $50,000 at 14%  interest, with a grace period of up to 3 months (with
capitalization of interest). A maximum repayment period of 36 months, including the grace period, is
permitted. All loan repayments should be completed by December 31, 2004. CGD will provide current
accounts at no cost to borrowers and pay foreign suppliers directly without charging money transfer fees.
3. contribute CGD capital at the rate of 10% of the total loan amount. Thus, for every $100 that is lent under the
project, $10 will be CGD capital, and $90 will be from the Grant funds. The repayments of principal will be
restored to CGD at the same proportion of 10%.
- 13-



4. hold regular office hours in the Dili headquarters of CGD, and in the Business Development Centers in
Baucau, Maliana, and Oecussi. The district space will be provided to CGD in order to carry out transactions
under the project; rent from CGD will not be sought.
5. provide staff, transportation and security to service the district and sub-district populations beyond the four
aforementioned districts in order to receive loan applications; disburse loan funds and collect repayments; and
make regular visits to borrower projects. (District facilities, aerial transportation and security will require
assistance from and coordination with the government.)
6. use loan repayments to provide additional loans until the scheduled end of the project, December 31, 2003.
However, in the event that the level of loan performance falls beneath 80% CGD shall cease the extension of
any new loans, government and IDA will carry out a review of the loan portfolio and determine and agree on
an appropriate course of remedial action.
7. improve the Management Information System (MIS) under the project. The new MIS will track and allow for
calculations of loan performance and collection ratios (including portfolio at risk by age, arrears rate,
repayment rate, current recovery rate), and efficiency ratios.
In addition, CGD will:
I. provide monthly reports and statements of the operations under the loan program to the PIU and to IDA as
well as succinct tables, quarterly reports and annual reports as required.
2. allow an independent auditor to review the project accounts each year.  CGD will be audited by an
international audit firm that is acceptable to IDA; the audit by this firm, provided that it also provides more
detailed audits of the loans under the project, would be acceptable. The audits need to be available within six
months after the end of the fiscal year. CGD also will allow IDA staff to review progress during supervision
missions.
Compensation for CGD administration of the SME line of credit will be:
1. CGD operating costs are to be covered with the 1.5% loan approval fee and the repayment of the interest fee of
14%. The fee levels were calculated assuming an 80% collection rate and an average loan repayment period
of 2 years to cover monthly costs.
2. To reftmnd CGD for the 10% capital contribution to the loan amount as noted above, 10% of the principal
component of each repayment will go to CGD, reflecting the same percentage of the capital contribution of
CGD.
3. From December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004, all repayment proceeds will be held in a non-interest bearing
account with CGD in the name of the government. By January 31, 2005, CGD will provide the government a
financial statement with full disclosure of incomes and expenditures under the loan program.
The implications of these provisions are discussed in Section E.2, Financial Analysis. (See Annex 4 for forecast
cash flow, not including CGD's income from the government's non-interest bearing account.)
Because the supervision of IDA normally ends when the Project Grant is fully disbursed, while the loan program
will continue implementation beyond this completion date, the above safeguard provisions and dates have been
agreed with the government and CGD and recorded in minutes of negotiations. This will supplement the
Implementation Program included in the Project Agreement. If the project completion date is changed, then CGD
and the Govemment will agree on the disposition/use of the funds.
PIU. A PIU will be established within the Ministry for Economy and Development. The PIU will be responsible
for the overall monitoring and coordination of the project on behalf of government; managing procurement
contracts; overseeing allocations for market rehabilitation; and, producing monthly and other required progress
reports on the project to IDA.  An East Timorese government official has been allocated to the project as PIU
manager. The PIU will have other full-time East Timorese staff: Finance Specialist, responsible for project
bookkeeping and financial management, and PIU tasks under the SME Line of Credit component; Business
Specialist, responsible for PIU tasks under PSD Capacity-building component and Market Rehabilitation
component; and Procurement Specialist, responsible for procurement processing and contract management. Also,
a PIU international consultant will be contracted on a part-time basis over the life of the project to provide
management, financial and procurement consulting services and maximum skills transfer. Other East Timorese
- 14 -



staff will be appointed as consultants to the project as necessary. The PIU will be located within the Fomento
government building.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A vibrant private sector, coincident with a productive agriculture sector, has been repeatedly identified as a key
precursor of a viable independent East Timor. This was first identified by the UN/World Bank Joint Assessment
Mission in October/November 1999. This has since been confirmed within the TSS and most recently reaffirmed
in UN, World Bank and IMF documents tabled at the donors' meetings in Brussels (December 2000) and Canberra
(June 2001) (see Annex 10 for further comments).
Several employment generation projects were implemented at the outset of the reconstruction and development
effort. These were Quick Impact Projects (QIPs) which were designed to carry out important labor-intensive public
works, reduce unemployment, especially urban unemployment, and restore essential infrastructure and improve
social cohlesion. These projects were also intended to help stimulate the economy but were not intended to provide
employment on an ongoing basis. An important distinguishing feature of SEP I was, hiowever, to promote the
creation of sustainable employment. This remains the case with SEP ll.
Because of the absence of adequate credit facilities, the only alternative to facilitating a loan program is direct
payment support to enterprises and industries. Whilst such directed public works as noted above were reasonable
in order to facilitate rapid employment generation in a post-conflict situation, they are otherwise not a viable
alternative because of the inevitable mismatch of resources and efficient outcomes. Furtler, there remains little
likelihood of adequate banking and credit facilities being established in the near-tenn in East Timor without the
credit and institutional support as provided in SEP I being provided in SEP II.
One option originally considered in JAM was the promotion of microfinance. Ultimately, thie ADB was tasked
against this area. While microfinance remains a key part of private sector recovery in East Timor, the larger loans
offered under SEP I and SEP II have been estimated to produce a greater number of new jobs in the early stages of
economic recovery. Noting that the ADB was given responsibility for developing access to microfinance, SEP I
and SEP II have been designed to provide credit at the SME level. To date, each new enterprise funded under SEP
I hias directly created an average of five new jobs.
SEP I focused on lending in the capital Dili and at the district level with available loan ftnds divided equally
between districts. The intention of SEP II is to expand its lending program beyond the district level to the
sub-district and rural levels, areas which have so far received insufficient attention and access to credit.  In
addition, the recovery in the agriculture sector has been relatively strong and lending to agri-businesses now
presents a better credit risk. It is the agreed broader objective of the TSS to support development in areas outside
Dili and district capitals.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                     (PSR) Ratings
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __(_ (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                            Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Post-conflict assistance               Bosnia-Herzegovina Emergency           S               S
Works and Employment Project
Economic and Social sectors            Cambodia - Social Fund I               S               S
Post-conflict assistance               Kosovo - SME Credit (new
- 15-



project)
Rural                               Ghana - Rural Financial            S             S
Services Project
SME                                Albania - Urban Works and          S              S
Micro
Private Sector Development         East Timor - Small Enterprises     S              S
Project
Other development agencies
UJNDP                               Foundations for Governance
and Public Administration
(unfunded proposal) - this
includes a component designed
to develop the out-sourcing of
support services from the public
sector to the private sector and
the proposed establishment of a
business incubator for this
purpose.
USAID/Office of Transition Initiatives Transitional Employment
Program - originally scheduled
to run tintil May 2000, then
extended until August 2000,
this program temporarily
employed more than 50,000
workers in all 13 districts using
grant ftnds of $4.1 million.
TEP II - Transitional
Engagement for Population
Support - began in September
2000 and includes a further
employment generation
component.
ADB                                Microfinance Development
Project - this project is valued
at $7.7 million and has several
objectives including: 1.
Rehabilitation and strengthening
of credit unions; 2.
Strengthening of the Credit
Union federation; 3.
Establishment of an East Timor
microfinance bank.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Although SEP I is still at a relatively early stage of implementation, the experience gained durinig SEP I is of
conisiderable benefit in designing and implementing SEP 11. The limiting effect of weaknesses of physical
infrastructure on banking operations is apparent. The continuing lack of uncertainty regarding land and property
title reduces the viability and bankability of many business projects. By extension, the lack of a securities law
allowing lenders to take mortgages also restricts credit provision. The limited capacity of human resources in East
Timor hampers implementation.
SEP I has so far revealed considerable difficulties in disbursement. This is largely due to procedural and training
impediments. In some cases, there has been an overly long delay between approval of a loan and disbursenment.
Disbursement delays were also experienced in the Albanian microcredit project which ran from  1995 to 1999
during a difficult domestic period, causing implementation difficulties. The Albanian project was also hampered
by weak counterpart capacity.
There is a raft of information available on previous lessons learned in pursuing the establishment of centers similar
to the BDCs to be funded and established under SEP 1. These lessons learned have been carcfully hicorporated into
the design of the BDS portion of SEP 11.  In particular, there will be considerable emphasis on delivering
appropriate training not just in small business skills and office management, but also promotinlg private sector
replication of the services in order to ensure sustainability.
IDA also has considerable experience in the delivery of credit pfograms, including to the agriculture sector. Key
lessons learned in the past include avoiding a supply-push element to the lending program, and incorporating
market-based elements into the lending process from  the time of inception.  SME lendinig experience has
repeatedly shown the need to avoid targeting of credit except in the broadest sense, as in the case of SEP 11 where
half of the line of credit is eannarked for agri-businesses.
Interest rate policy is also important and, in general, lessons learned suggest that arbitrarily set interest rates
produce a distortionary cffect causing hann to the financial sector. However, in the case of East T imor where the
initial task is simply to restore an initial supply of credit, and there is no private sector provider of suchI SME
credit, the rate of interest to be applied to SEP 11 loans will not produce long-term distortive effects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Support for SEP I from  UNTAET and the East Timor leadership has been strong and consistent.  Recipient
decision-makers recognizc the urgency of generating sustainable new jobs and reviving private sector activity.
UNTAET district administrations have been helpful in agreeing to allocate public buildings to house the four
BDCs to be funded under SEP I and used as platforms for delivery of BDS in SEP 11. Following the vast
oversubscription for loans at the outset of SEP I in May/June 2000, the East Timorese leaderslhip was instrumelntal
in helping to explain to disaffected borrowers the objectives and limitations of SEP 1. thus supporting its successftil
implementation. More recently UNTAET has sought an amendment to the original grant agreement for SEP I
allowinig for flinding to be expended on the construction of BDCs.  The East Tihmor leadership has also
demonstrated their understanding of the need to revive East Timor's credit and banking systems and are aware of
the important role SEP 11 will play in supplying essential credit to the private sector, both for agricultural and
non-agricultural businesses.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Following the post-referendum  violence, East Timor has no independently operating credit or banking system
supporting domestic SMEs. And until adequate institutions, laws, and business and sector frameworks are in
place, independent banking operations will either be slow to commence operations or will not commence at all.
This means that the supply of credit to East Timor is severely limited without outside assistance. Furtlher, in the
lead-LIP to the referendum, the credit culture was affected by a politically motivated program encouraging East
Timorese to default on Indonesian loans. IDA support to a banking operation such as that offered by CGD
- 17-



provides greater security to lenders and encourages their future independent activities.
Additional value-adding support is offered in the form of technical assistance for the development of the business
regulatory environment and advances in this area are intended to complement the lending environment in which
SEP It operates. Likewise, other components such as the market rehabilitation component, BDS delivery and
capacity building for public sector PSD officials, will add specific value by both drawing on the Bank's particular
expertise and experience in delivery similar interventions elsewhere and in that they are all designed to be
mutually complementary and reinforcing.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Ai-nnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
C  Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
C Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
SEP 11, like the quick impact employment projects in Dili and throughout East Timor, will seek to generate new
jobs both to help stimulate the economy as well as to improve social cohesion. An important distinction, however,
from those quick impact projects is that SEP 11 aims, like SEP 1, to create sustainable jobs which produce long run
economic benefits.  Further, the demand for SEP II loan funds from  East Timorese business people and
entrepreneurs will be in response to private sector-driven investment and business risk decisions, which greatly
increases the prospect of efficient allocation of resources and maximized return on investments. Moreover, the
lending function of the project does not seek to target its line of credit in any way except to quarantine half of the
available $4 million for agri-business opportunities, thus eliminating any supply-push distortive effect. In addition,
the line of credit will be structured such that access to loans will be dependent upon viable business plans and
responsible repayments practices.
SEP 11 is expected to produce a strong multiplier effect. During SEP I the average loan size was about $1 1,000.
And that has equated to about five directly generated new jobs per loan. If each new job is paid $1000 per annum
(a reasonable estimate, especially at the district level), and noting that many loans are for terns of a year or not
much more, then each new (successful) enterprise is adding to national income annually an amount at least equal
to 50 percent of borrowings. In turn, especially at this early stage of reconstruction, the resurrection of the supply
of necessary goods and services is expected to have strong trickle-down effects. It is therefore not difficult to
estimate that in terms of direct impact alone, SEP II's lending component will increase national income by more
than its own project value annually. It is then necessary to take into account the revolving nature of the lending
program and note that the loans will mostly have short repayment periods. Thus the base money of the financial
system will quickly expand as performing loans are repaid on a revolving basis. Repaid loan ftnds, at the
completion of the project, will revert to the future East Timorese government. Therefore, the lending program in
the short-run will serve the purposes of improving access to credit by small and medium-sized business people,
fanners and entrepreneurs, restarting private sector activity, allocating investment money efficiently, expanding
the moniey base and re-establishing a credit and investment culture. At the end of the project's life, the repaid loan
funds (forecast to be at least 80 percent ($3.2 million) of original loan funds) may usefully be injected into the
capital structure of the ADB's Microfinance Development Bank rather than into consolidated govemment revenue.
Thus the residual SEP II (and SEP 1) funds can be further applied to SME lending through this facility. And by
this tine private sector capital flows and domestic financial intermediation are expected to have re-commenced and
thus there will be improved access to finance by SMEs.
The BDS component and, in particular, the business training program, are expected to produce excellent economic
rates of return. The SME training is intended to enable business operators to better start, manage and expand their
businesses. Training costs per recipient will be minimal and far beneath the expected return to the economy of
better functioning and more profitable businesses. The training program will also include large train-the-trainer
initiatives so that the impact of the skill transfer becomes more sustained. This training, therefore, should produce
long-run economic benefits. In addition, the BDS will seek from the outset to promote private sector replication of
- 18 -



BDS delivery. Through a demonstration effect, the delivery of BDS will work to ensure the creation of future
private sector jobs delivering BDS, thus sustaining the delivery of BDS, and thereby improving business entry and
management skills.
Importantly, this project assumes the pivotal role conceived under JAM to help restore the private sector. The
project will provide many intangible economic benefits. It is supporting the re-establishment of the credit sector.
It is helping to restore a healthy and responsible credit culture. It is supporting the restoration of the supply of
local goods and services. It is seeking to elevate the role of private sector and entrepreneurial activity. There are
no alternative means of obtaining the same economic benefit that these initiatives will deliver. The JAM sectoral
objectives were designed on the premise that PSD would be the key driver of medium to long-temi development
efforts. (This point was echoed during the Bank's board meeting held to approve the TSS.) SEP 11 adequately
reflects the needs of the recommended sectoral strategy and is consistent with the long-term policy planning of the
recipient.
The project is designed to be as non-distortive as possible.  It uses a separately established lender as the
implementing agency. This helps build capacity in the domestic banking sector, especially among East Timorese
credit staff. The project is expected to produce strong social benefits via its job creation objective. Also, the project
is seeking to spread its impact as evenly as possible across East Timor's 13 districts in an attempt to mitigate the
deleterious effects of urbanization in Dili and to lessen existing regional income disparities. The project is also
handicapped in determining precisely what its economic impact will be because of the absence of comprehensive
baseline data and ongoing external statistical work. Many effects, however, will be roughly measurable ex-poste
such as the value of new jobs, changes in income of borrowers under the project, new BDS private sector providers.
and sustained SME lending using the residual funds of the project which should be augmented by the mobilized
savings of project beneficiaries. Overall, the economic benefit of SEP II is expected to be considerable although
the precise expected economic rate of return is difficult to quantify.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPk'=US$ million; FRR = %  (see Annex 4)
Following a comprehensive appraisal of all relevant resident financial institutions, CGD has been selected as the
project entity. The financial structure of the line of credit under SEP is as follows:
SEP II loans will normally be available in the range of $1,000 to $50,000. This represents an increase in the lower
limit of $500 instituted under SEP 1. In exceptional circumstances, loans in excess of $50,000 may be made after
prior review by the Bank. As in SEP I, the SEP II maximum loan term will remain at 36 months with an initial
grace period of up to three months, in which case interest is capitalized. The repayment period should be as short
as feasible and no loan repayment should be due after December 31, 2004. The terms and conditions of loans, and
services provided by CGD will remain the same. Following the model of SEP I lending, the SEP 11 line of credit
will operate on a revolving basis. Once loan monies are repaid they become eligible again for re-lending. At the
end of the project, the repaid loan funds revert to the future government.
CGD will assume 10% of the risk of lending under the SME line of credit component. Thus, for every $100 lent
under the project, $90 would be from SEP funds and $10 from CGD. Repayments, too, would be allocated
according to the same 90:10 ratio. This risk-sharing arrangement will promote greater efforts at due diligence and
thus ensure a higher residual of the portfolio to revert to the future government from the repaid loan funds. It also
should help lessen the moral hazard problem faced by the project as a result of the intermediate bank hitherto not
having had any of its own capital exposed in SEP 1.
To offset loan establishment costs, CGD will receive 1.5% of the loan value as an up-front fee, recoverable directly
from the borrower at the time the loan is issued. CGD will receive the full interest payment of each monthly
repayment to cover CGD's operating costs. This latter fee not only serves as the principal fonn of compensation to
CGD but its proportionate structure also serves as an incentive to CGD to achieve maximum loan perfornance.
No start-up monies will be paid to CGD for SEP II; CGD was paid $85,000 in SEP I to offset their initial start-LIp
costs. The assets purchased with this allocation (furniture, computers, a vehicle) remain serviceable and in use.
- 19-



The interest rate will be increased to 14% per annum from the previous rate of 10%, reflecting a move away from
the subsidized rate and toward a more market rate. 14% remains below market rate, and is a concession to not
place too harsh a burden on the borrower while nevertheless moving toward a market rate. This is important to
ensure the viability of the lending structure, and to promote a commercial credit culture. Increasing the rate also
will make it possible for CGD operating costs to be covered by the revenues (fee plus interest) alone. Under SEP 1,
CGD receives the 1.5% fee, plus 9.5% of total repayments received (principal + interest). CGD's retention of a
portion of the capital base causes in an incremental depletion of the capital base. Unlike under SEP 1, no portion
of the repayments of SEP II capital would be used for payment to CGD, thus creating a more self-sustaining
scheme.
SEP It borrowers will be advised that repayments must be made in US dollars, and borrowers will be exposed to
exchange rate risk should they conduct business activities in another currency (i.e. Rupiah, Australian dollar).
Borrowers should be made aware that CGD and other financial entities profit from foreign exchange transactions.
An automatic review of the line of credit will be required once $2 million of the $4 million is approved for lending
by CGD.  This is in addition to regular supervision missions by the Bank and other monitoring and audit
procedures by the PIU. Further, should the loan performance rate fall beneath 80 percent then an automatic review
of the portfolio and procedures is triggered to be carried out by CGD, government and IDA with a view to
determining a remedial solution. (It should be noted that the SEP I line of credit is through about a third of its life
and repayments exceed 84 percent.)
PIU and CGD will be required to carry out accounting of their respective project components, comply with audit
requirements, and complete financial reporting. Govemment will establish a financial management action plan to
guide the financial aspects of the implementation of this component.
A financial management plan will also be required for other parts of the project including market rehabilitation
and BDS. The construction of the four BDCs is to be funded out of SEP 1, but the operational costs of the BDCs in
support of BDS delivery will be funded under SEP II. Accordingly, a financial management plan is required for
the BDC operations. Also, some revenue will be received through courses and services delivered under SEP II.
The relevant financial management plan should cater for this revenue which will fall under the control of the BDC
Coordination Office in Dili and which may be reinvested in areas of broad benefit to the business community such
as business and economic sector promotion initiatives. Approval of the guidelines for operating the grant shall be
a condition for disbursement under this component.
Fiscal Impact:
As discussed above, SEP II is expected to have strong direct economic impacts and an equally strong multiplier
effect. The degree of impact is difficult to quantify, however. Now that tax arrangements and collection systems
are in place, the economic activity created by SEP II will directly produce increased tax revenues for govemment.
Most of the personal income generated by businesses funded under the project will probably fall outside of the
wages tax net. But larger SMEs may reach sufficient size and profitability such that they will be liable for income
tax. Further, many of the SMEs Linder SEP 1, and perhaps even more so under SEP II, needed to import capital
goods all which were taxed at the border. Many of the projects are service sector businesses and collect services
tax payable to the govemment at the point of sale.
The project is funded by a grant. There are zero, or as close to zero as possible, recurrent liabilities generated by
this project (additional detail on the recurrent cost implications of SEP II are included in earlier sections.) At the
end of the project's life the following happens to those interventions initiated under SEP II: the line of credit
closes, repaid loan funds revert to government control; all project staff are employed under contract terminating at
the end of the project's life, at which time these highly skilled staff will be given out-placement assistance; BDS
offered under the project will terminate, in part or in whole to be taken up by the private sector; the four BDC
buildings rehabilitated under SEP I to deliver SEP It BDS will close and revert to govemment control; and all
other TA for business regulatory environment development and business skills training is concluded.
- 20 -



In addition, the repaid loan funds revert to govemment consolidated revenue at the end of the project's life.
Currently, 80 percent repayment of the $4 million in loan funds is forecast to be repaid, that is, $3.2 million.
Coupled with the same arrangement in SEP 1, the two projects will directly benefit the nationial budget by $6.4
million (or likely more) by the end of the project. The future government must consider carefully how to allocate
this money but, at this early stage, in order to promote continued SME lending it is recommenlded that the funds be
passed to the ADB's Microfinance Development Bank to establish a separate SME lending wildow.
3. Technical:
A thorough appraisal was conducted of the potential financial intermediaries that could be used for SEP 11. The
appraisal considered general and East Timor-specific SME lending experiences. It also looked at managemcnit
structure and capacity, legal basis and corporate objectives, financial management systems, capacity to reach
districts and manage a geographically dispersed loan portfolio, ability to share a portion of the risk of the line of
credit, and ability to adhere faithfully to audit and IDA administrative requirements. The full details of the
appraisal processes were forwarded separately to govemment. The SEP 11 appraisal team reviewed ability to deal
with loan application analysis process and due diligence, business plan assessment, portfolio maniagem11ent,
collection of loan repayments, organization of district visits for disbursements and collections, monitoring of
application of loan funds by borrowers, and management of foreign exchange transactions. The appraisal process
also considered likely ability to adhere to the need for disclosure of assessed potential advcrse environmental
impact of a borrower's project, and for making adjudications on whether a loan application fits the "negative list"
or is a service sector business ineligible for SEP 11 loan funds under the terms of this agreement.
Technical appraisal was required to determine relative benefits of other possible iitervenitions.  Initially,
sector-specific interventions - oil and gas sector, and tourism - were considered. The broader oil and gas sector
was studied but a determination was made that other broader initiatives in this area were better placed to add value
to this important sector. In other sectors, like tourism and fisheries, highly focused interventions were considered
but, following broad consultation and review, were rejected until additional policy development work had been put
in place. Instead, the technical review of these different options led to the conclusion that more generic work on
the broader enabling environment would produce higher net retums and lessen the risk of a misallocation of
resources to a specific economic sub-sector. The initial technical review of the best use of the TA on1 the business
regulatory environment, and noting the intervention is intended to run part-time over the life of the project,
suggests that a non-prescriptive approach is best. That is, the TA may be best applied dealing with issues of a
technical and policy nature as they emerge, whether through general need or cross-sectoral conflict of interest.
A survey was prepared and used to analyze past, current and possible market rehabilitation work. The survey was
sent to all 13 UNTAET District Administration offices and to the main agencies/donors working in the field of
market rehabilitation including USAID/OTI, IOM, JICA and ADRA. The collated results of this survey, which
essentially became a cross-referencing exercise between district-based recipients and the funding/implementing
agencies, showed that there was relatively even need for market rehabilitation work across the territory. Oni the
basis of these results the market rehabilitation component, which was originally identified in October 2000 SEP 11
pre-appraisal, was refined and proposed for inclusion in SEP 11.
There has also been extensive stakeholder review, throughout the districts and sub-districts of East Timor, on the
extent and nature of demand for BDS. This review, coupled with assessment of continuing demand for SME
finance, sought to determine the type, intensity, breadth and weighting of training and BDS needs. It was through
this review, at the national and district levels, that the BDS design was formalized.
Significant attention was given to the various technical questions surrounding the potential sustainability of the
project. In considering sustainability issues, the need for capacity building of public sector PSD skills was raised.
The design calls for civil servants to be targeted as recipients of PSD training.
- 21 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
[DA is the trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET). SEP  I is funded out of TFET. UNTAET will be the
rcsponsible authority to sign the grant agreement with the IDA on SEP 11.
4.2 Project management:
CGD is the implementation agency for the SME line of credit and for all disbursements. The current staff of CGD
has been ascertained to be sufficiently qualified. Additional staff and facilities required to implement the project
have been agreed and are part of CGD's proposal.
The PIU for SEP 11 will be placed under the Ministry for Economy and Development. The PIU will manage
procurement under the project.  Full agreement on the staffing and structure of the PIU between IDA and
government is required to establish grant effectiveness.
4.3 Procuremeint issues:
A review of the procurement capability was carried out by a Bank-certified procurement specialist. There is no
CPAR  in  existence for East Timor.   All procurement are guided  by  UNTAET's Regulation  No.
UNTAET!REG/2000/10 issued 6 March 2000. To supplement the provisions of the Regulations, UNTAET has
developed a "Public Procurement Manual for Civil Administration in East Timor" (PPM). There are a number of
areas of divergence in this regulation from the standard Bank procurement conditions, the most noteworthy of the
variations are: (1) any Goods up to $200,000, Works up to $350,000 and Services up to S75,000 can be procured
on a National Basis; (2) International Tender only when in excess of $1,000,000 (Cl, 5.8); and (3) Conditions
applying to restrictive tendering (Cl, 5.2). There is, however, an overriding caveat in the Regulation addressing
procurement using funds from foreign donors stating that in the event of conflict with the procurement regulations
of the Donor, the conditions of the Donor will prevail. (Clause 2.2): "To the extent that the present Regulation
conflicts with the procurement rUles of a donor funding agency with which UNTAET has agreed to comply, the
requirements of those rules shall supply."
A.n assessment was conducted of the procurement personnel active within SEP 1. The staff were not familiar with
Bank regulations (and hence deviations); to date, contracts prepared by the personnel have been in accordance with
UNTAET conditions. The Bank corrected the variances on packets being prepared, and is aware of an ongoing
requirement to closely review all contracts to ensure that Bank conditions are explicit in the bid documents.
In contrast to SEP 1, the PIU for SEP 11 will have considerably increased procurement and project implementation
requirements. Therefore, a new PIU, revised in structure and responsibility, is needed. The PIU structure will
inclUde a Project Management Consultant team (PIUC) to manage the day-to-day activities of the new project. The
PIUC will report to the East Timorese PIU Director. The PIU will consist of a team of project management,
financial and procurement personnel, together with staff with other necessary skills required for the project. The
PIUC, in addition to being a vehicle for capacity building of East Timorese staff, will have the flexibility to hire
short-term expertise both from within the country, and internationally, as required, for specific activities under the
project.
4.4 Finialncial managemetnt issues:
A financial management assessment was carried out by a Bank-certified financial management specialist. The
assessment reviewed the operations of CGD, the SEP I implementing agency, as well as the capacity of the SEP I
PIU. The assessment of CGD concluded that the accounting and financial management procedures employed by
CGD are acceptable to IDA and in compliance with the requirements of OP/BP 10.02. The assessment of the SEP
I PIU concluded that a new PIU will have to be established by government to manage the large component for
- 22 -



non-lending activities under the project. The assessment determined the absence of a financial management
capacity in the PIU. Also, because the non-lending component of SEP I is small and to date not fully implemented,
the SEP I PIU also has not established the accounting function. Agreement has been reached with Government
that the PIU to be established for SEP JI will be supported by an acceptable contractor who will assist the PIU in
project coordination, procurement and financial management.  Establishment of a project accounting system
acceptable to IDA will be included as part of the terms of reference of the contractor. Establishment of the
accounting system will be a condition of disbursement for the non-lending component of the project.
5. Environmental:                     Envirolnmlienital Category: B (Partial Assessmeent)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (includinig
consultationi and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerginlg fiom this analysis.
It is possible to draw heavily on the experience of SEP I in forecasting the likely environmental issues in SEP 11.
The most likely adverse environmental impact will be caused by the granting of SEP It loan funds to potentially
environmentally adverse businesses, for example, a metal-works.  On a case-by-case basis an independent
environmental consultant will be contracted to review the proposed investment. To date, there has not been such a
case during the course of implementation of SEP 1.
In the normal course of events, the implementing agency, if processing a loan for a projcct likely to cause
environmental damage, would notify the PIU which would then engage the environmental consultant. Both the
PIU and CGD need to exercise good sense in determining if any disbursement of SEP 11 funlds might have an
adverse environmental impact and, erring on the side of caution, should refer any doubts to IDA.
Impact on human health and safety is an issue of relevance to SEP 11. The PIU should review closely any
application for SEP 11 funds from a business which might pose visible or excessive risk to its employees or
associates.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate'?
An EMP is not considered necessary under the scope of this project. However, a separate allocation of $10000 has
been made available in the PIU component budget to fund environmental reviews as required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects. timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
Should any environmental review be rendered necessary under SEP 11 operations, the review will be conducted
independently and its results fully disclosed to all relevant stakeholders.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at tlhe stage of (a) environmental screeniing and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviroinment management plan'? Describc mechanisms
of consultation that were used ald whichi groups were consulted?
Guidance on action taken in the event of the need for an environmental review will be contained in the Project
Manual to be prepared by the lending entity. CGD, the PIU, UNTAET, the business owner, and all other relevant
stakeholders will be consulted during the environmental impact assessment process.
5.5 Wlhat mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
enviroiunent'? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of tlle EMP?
The implementing agency and the PIU will be tasked to monitor the investments being made Lising SEP 11 loan
funds. The Project Manual will guide their actions in regard to potential adverse environmental impact. No
specific indicators covering environmental impacts are warranted or proposed.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Key social issues include: the provision of loans to women; delivery of the loan program beyond Dili and district
- 23 -



capitals to the sub-district and rural levels; delivery of BDS effectively to those districts without BDCs (9 of 13)
using a mixture of delivery methods; ensuring loans are made purely for reasons of merit; sustainable community
empowerment through successful replication by the private sector of the BDS by the end of the project's life; fair
access to services and training; outplacement of project staff at the end of the project's life; clear public
promulgation. to ensure equity, of the project's purpose and scope.
The project, by extension of its sustainable job creation objective, has a strong impact on various social
development areas, including social cohesion. The return to economic activity by workers with sustainable jobs is
expected to boost social cohesion, lessen the chances of social unrest, and stimulate private sector activity, thereby
helping to restore provision of goods and services and support the transition to self-government during FY
2001-2002 and beyond.
The project's business training component is also expected to register a strong positive impact on the social sector.
Busin1ess training is designed to empower small business people, entrepreneurs and farmers to allow greater
self-determination through the development of skills which will enable the successful start-up of new businesses or
improvement of existing businesses.
Gender is an important cross-cutting issue and is of critical relevance to SEP 11. SEP I has so far proven able to
deliver loans to a large number of women, well beyond the expectations of SEP I's initial forecasts. SEP 11
shnilarly aims to offer women maximum access to lending as well as creating a tailored training course, "Women
in Business."
A fuirther implicit objective of the project is to help restore a healthy credit and investment culture. In the lead up
to the 1999 referendum there was a politically-motivated tacit agreement amongst some borrowers not to repay
loans to some Indonesian banks by some debtors. While this is not thought to have induced an endemic pattern,
SEP 11 will seek to redress this potential deficiency in the credit culture. In addition, agreement has been reached
through stakeholder consultation to promulgate publicly the names of any SEP borrowers that do not repay their
loans.
The project faces several potential social sector risks. As shown during the early implementation of SEP 1, the
disqualification of loan applications can cause disquiet, despite considerable forewarning that not all applicants
will be successful. Therefore, especially careful effort must be made in communicating to potential borrowers
regarding the terms, conditions and general nature of the lending program, and the fact that only those
applications supported by viable business plans will be approved.
Another potential cause of social unrest is the fact that 9 of the 13 district capitals will not have a BDC, although
this possibility was canvassed under the purview of SEP I. A strong infonnation campaign regarding this will be
important. Other districts should be informed how services will otherwise be delivered to them.
6.2 Participatory Approaclh: How are key stakeholders participating in the project'?
Stakeholders were extensively consulted during SEP 11 appraisal, both in the outlying districts and in the capital.
SEP II appraisal benefited from the fact that stakeholders were familiar with the intended import of the project
because of their close involvement in the preparation of SEP 1. Stakeholders were consulted during SEP It
appraisal about all aspects of the project but in particular regarding the terms and conditions of the lending
program, its processing arrangements, the establishment of the BDCs, market rehabilitation and the tailoring of the
businiess training. Business leaders were also consulted regarding assistance to specific industry sectors with the
most competitive potential although the project subsequently decided not to include such an intervention at this
stage.
6.3 How does the project involve consultation-s or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
Consultation with NGOs and civil society was a routine matter during SEP I implementation and SEP 11 appraisal
and such consultation will continue to retain high priority during SEP 11 implementation. Donor coordination has
- 24 -



been an important part of appraisal and will remain central to future implementation and supervision. NGOs will
be contracted under the project to assist in delivery of BDS in districts without BDCs and also in sub-district areas.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project has no explicit social development objectives. However, continuous contact is maintained with various
business groups, district offices, donors and civil society organizations to help ensure adequate coordination and to
hamess all possible operating synergies.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in termls of social development outcomes?
No specific mechanism to monitor social development outcomes is proposed.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                        Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                 0 Yes (D No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                         0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                          0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                        0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                         o Ycs _   No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                   * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                    o Yes * No
oProjects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)           Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*              0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguaid policies.
Environmental Assessment
A mechanism was established under SEP 1, and will be continued under SEP II, to institute an environmental
impact assessment in the event that any part of the project, in particular the lending program, might cause an
adverse environmental impact.
Under the SME line of credit, the environmental risk is low due to the small loan size (generally less than
$50,000). A negative list of activities has been established for the line of credit. In addition, other safeguards
apply: public transport vehicles (buses and trucks) would have to meet standard emission limits and should comply
with safety standards; and, new or renovated buildings should have adequate provisions for sanitation and
wastewater disposal. The CGD staff would refer to the PIU any project proposals worthy of financing but regarded
as having a potentially negative environmental impact; the PIU would then engage an environmental consultant to
assist with the necessary review, mitigation and monitoring measures.
For loans over $50,000, a straightforward case-by-case review procedure will be established. Prior to the issuance
of a World Bank "no objection," EASES will provide environmental screening services for applications greater
than $50,000. The Project Manual will contain environmental principles to guide implementation.
Involuntary Resettlement
Under the Project. there will be neither use of nor construction on any land where there is a potential case of
involuntary resettlement or disputed ownership.
- 25 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
The project aims to generate a sustainable impact via all of its lending, capacity-building and market rehabilitation
components. At the micro-level, the line of credit is designed to provide finance to viable private businesses which
will continue to operate well beyond the immediate life of the project. At the macro-level, the lending is designed
to help kick-start the overall private sector, and to foster private sector replication of SME lending. The project's
other components such as private sector capacity building are all designed to produce sustainable long-tern
benefits, even though the project itself is only scheduled to run for 28 months. A central tenet tlhroughout the
delivery of the BDS component is the aim of promoting private sector replication of thie BDS. The support to the
business regulatory environment is designed to produce a long-term enabling framework with long run benefits.
The market rehabilitation component's employment generation will be more short tern in nature but the benefits of
improved market facilities will provide sustained benefits in terms of improving access to markets and attracting
more traders. Sustainability is also addressed individually in each component description.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical asstumptions found in the fourth columln of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Policy enviromnent enables private sector        M          Coordination with UNTAET and East Timorese
to respond to project offerings                             policy-makers
Continuation of pro-private sector policies      N          Coordination with UNTAET regarding
during transition from UNTAET to East                       institution building and transition arrangements
Timorese administration
Macroeconomic framework conducive to             S         Work of IMF/World Bank to build capacity in
start-up and promotion of key industry                      economic policy-making
sectors
Adequate disbursement and procuremnent           S          Adequate training and guidance to counterparts
counterpart capacity                                       regarding procedures
Training skillfuilly delivered                   M          Quality training needs assessment and delivery
via well-chosen trainers
Improved infrastructure and supply and           S          Work with business associations and chambers
distribution channels                                       of commerce in suppolt of market linkages
Prevention of distortive conditions such as     M           Awareness training and institution building and
corruption at ports and customs                             law enforcement
Successftil creation of and support to          M           Based on consultative process, provision of
district-level business associations                        adequate training and mentoring
Satisfactory access to appropriate              N           Via direct and regular liaison with the UN's
buildings or construction sites                             Land and Property Coimnission at Dili and
district levels
Adequate training of credit staff by             N          Supervision of implementing agency, pursuant
implementing agency                                         to agreement incorporating requirement for
trained credit staff
Support from district and sub-district          N           Via regular district visits and via directive from
level administration                                        Dili
Consumer willingness to support and              N          By creating public awareness and advertising
demand credit and other banking services                    available products and services
Legal and macroeconomic enviromnent              S          Early steps by UNTAET to enable
induces provision of additional services by                 commencement of banking operations, within a
- 26 -



financial organizations                                     appropriate legal framework, such as already
promulgated banking law
Ability of project to enforce                    S          Via constant consultation with implementing
implementation agreement for provision of                   agency, use of enforceable contract, and liaison
such services                                               with borrowing agency
Legal and social enviromnent and                 H          Advanced forewarning of use of public notices
techniques to promote and enforce                          to advertise names of non-repaying borrowers,
repayment of loans                                          and lobbying for inclusion of legal provisions
establishing penalties and provisions for
non-repayment
From Components to Outputs
Physical and procedural arrangements in         M           Strong commntmication with implementing
place to deliver lending program                            agency, exploitation of lessons learned under
SEP I, and supervision of preparation of staff
manual and arrangements for district visits and
customer service
Good project management                         M           Support to PIU, appropriate staffing
Ability to hire appropriate consultants for     M           Successful identification and careful vetting of
TA components                                              trainers and environmental consultants
Adequate disbursement and procLurement           S          Training and guidance to PIU
ability to fund construction and operation
of BDCs
Ability to supervise consultants                 N          Where necessary, devolution of responsibility to
PIU, and close involvement of Task Manager
Overall Risk Rating                              M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
As was discovered in SEP 1, there is the possibility of nepotism - or perception of nepotism - in the line of credit.
In particular, there is the risk of controversy related to the implementing bank staff not maintaining ann's length
distance from borrowers/potential borrowers under the project. There were several instances of this during SEP I
which were adequately and quickly dealt with. For this reason, however, SEP 11 will separate out the function of
lending and consideration of loan applications from information dissemination and project proposal preparation.
Staff hired under the project as trainers and BDC staff will be hired under fixed term contract. The temporary
nature of their work must be made explicitly clear to all staff from the outset. All staff, who will accrue
considerable new skills under the project, will be given out-placement assistance toward the end of the project's
life.
The reasons for the increase in interest rate from 10% under SEP I to 14% under SEP 11 will need to be clearly
- 27 -



explained to potential borrowers as well as other interested stakeholders to avoid any untoward negative reaction.
The increase needs to be explained based on its purpose of improving future sustainability of independent US
dollar SrvIE lending in East Timor given that such lending is unlikely to occur independcntly in the short- to
medium-term at levels less than 14%.
There may be some disquiet in districts where a BDC will not be built following the canvassing of this possibility
under the auspices of SEP 1. Accordingly, the nine districts without BDCs should be fLlly apprised of the
alternative servicing arrangements that will be put in place to deliver services. Further, the project's design calls
for the four BDC buildings to cease operations at the end of the project's life and this plan must be made clear to all
stakeholders.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following conditions must be met for the Grant to be effective:
A.      Establishment of a new Project Implementation Unit with a staffing plan and budget, acceptable to IDA;
B.     Completion of a financial management action plan for the Project, acceptable to IDA;
C.     Completion of a manual for the SME Line of Credit, acceptable to IDA;
D.     Completion of a Project Implementation Plan, acceptable to IDA; and,
E.      Ratification of a Credit Implementation Agreement between East Timor and CGD, acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement Condition
Payments for expenditures under the Market Rehabilitation component will be made only when the Market
Rehabilitation Project Manual, acceptable to IDA, has been adopted in accordance with the Grant Agreement and
until the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, acceptable to IDA. has been adopted by East
Timor.
Project Implementation Conditions for East Timor
A.      East Timor shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the Project, a Project
Implementation Unit responsible for the coordination and monitoring of Project activities. At all time the PIU
shall be provided with adequate resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient ntimbers,
including a Head; a Project Adviser; a Finance Specialist; a Business Development Specialist; and a Procurement
Specialist.
B.     In carrying out PSD Capacity-building, East Timor shall cause the operator of the Business Development
Centers to establish before March 3 1, 2002, a fee schedule, acceptable to IDA, for the provision of serviccs. Such
fees are to be tised solely to cover operational expenditures of the Business Development Centers.
C.      East Timor shall carry out PSD Capacity-building in accordancc with a training program acceptable to
IDA.
D.      In carrying out Market Rehabilitation, East Timor shall adopt and, thereafter, apply in the implementation
of, the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual, acceptable to IDA, which shall include the description of:
(i) criteria for the selection of Market Rehabilitation projects and the terms and conditions of grants;
(ii) procurement procedures;
(iii) the environmental criteria applicable to Market Rehabilitation project design including environmental impact
mitigation,
(iv) implementation arrangements;
(v) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a Market Rehabilitation project,
(vi) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures, and
(vii) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework.
- 28 -



E.     In carrying out Market Rehabilitation, East Timor also shall ensure that:
(i)    each proposed Market Rehabilitation project shall be a public marketplace facilities rehabilitation project
which is technically, financially, environmentally and socially viable, and economically justified by the number of
people benefiting from it;
(ii)    the estimated cost of a proposed Market Rehabilitation project shall not exceed S25,000;
(iii)    a Market Rehabilitation project agreement shall be entered into between the Head of the Project
Implementation Unit and the East Timorese grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in the Market Rehabilitation
Project Manual; and,
(iv)    prior to the carrying out of works under a Market Rehabilitation project, a technical review by the Deputy
District Administrator, or the Deputy's designee, shall have been completed of such Market Rehabilitation project
and shall have confirmed the following:
(a) the criteria described in E(i) have been complied with;
(b) appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that would minimize any acquisition
of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of affected persons have been considered in the design of the
Market Rehabilitation project in accordance with the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual;
(c) the requirements of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework have been complied with,
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation arrangements have been
completed and are satisfactory to the affected persons as set forth under the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework;
(d) a Market Rehabilitation project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan for the
Market Rehabilitation project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Market
Rehabilitation Project Manual; and
(e) a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Market Rehabilitation project has been
prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to IDA and has been included in the Market Rehabilitation
project agreement, which shall include assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective
community and the identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
F.     In carrying out Market Rehabilitation, East Timor shall:
(i)    take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of persons and to avoid the
displacement of said persons;
(ii)   where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is unavoidable, ensure that before
carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to Affected Persons,
compensation and rehabilitation measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy
Framework; and
(iii)   in the event that there are two hundred or more affected persons:
(a) prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
and furnish such plan to IDA for approval; and
(b) prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all affected persons shall have been compensated in
accordance with the provisions of the plan.
G.      East Timor shall:
(i)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with the indicators set forth in the Grant Agreement, the implementation and achievement of the
objectives;
(ii)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and furmish to IDA, on or about October 1, 2002, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to the above
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure efficient Project implementation and the achievement
of Project objectives; and
(iii)   review with IDA, by November 1, 2002, or such later date as IDA shall request, the report referred to the
above paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and
IDA's views on the matter.
- 29 -



Project Implementation Conditions for CGD
A.     CGD shall adopt and, thereafter, apply in the implementation of SME Line of Credit, the CGD Project
Manual, acceptable to East Timor and IDA, which shall include the description of: (i) the criteria for the selection
of SME project and the terms and conditions of Loans set forth in the Grant Agreement; (ii) the environmental
criteria applicable to SME project design including environmental impact mitigation, (iii) implementation
arrangements; and (iv) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth
in the Grant Agreement.
B.     CGD shall make loans which shall be funded up to 90% out of the proceeds of the Grant made available
by East Timor to CGD, and the remainder fumnded out of CGD's own funds.
C.     In making loans, CGD may retain for its own use the front-end fee and the interest paid on loans, and the
repaid portion of the loan funded out of CGD's own funds.
D.     Except as East Timor and IDA shall otherwise agree, CGD shall ensure that at least US $2.00 million of
the proceeds of the Grant is used for purposes of loans to agribusiness enterprises.
E.     With the prior agreement of East Timor and IDA, CGD may make loans to other financial institutions,
including micro-finance organizations, for on-lending under terms and conditions to be approved by East Timor
and IDA.
F.     Except as East Timor and IDA shall otherwise agree, proceeds of repayments of Loans shall be relent on
the same terms and conditions as set forth in the Grant Agreement.
G.     CGD shall take all measures necessary to ensure repayments under Loans; and, whenever repayments fall
below 80% of outstanding repayments in any one calendar month: (i) prepare an action plan to improve loan
repayments, acceptable to East Timor and IDA; and (ii) at the request of IDA, not make any new loans tntil such
action plan has been implemented.
H.     CGD shall:
(i)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA, the implementation of the SME Line of Credit and the achievement
of the objectives thereof;
(ii)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to East Timor and IDA, and furmish to East Timor and IDA,
on or about October 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities perfonyed
pursuant to the above paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out the SME Line of Credit during the
period preceding the report and setting out recommendations to ensure efficient implementation and achievement
of the objectives; and
(iii)   review with East Timor and IDA, by November 1, 2002, or such later dates as IDA shall request, the
respective reports referred to in the above paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of SME Line of Credit, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said reports and East Timor and IDA's views.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
- 30 -



quality.
n 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
! 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconmmended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Desiree Gree                              Brefort Javed Hanid        Klaus Rohland
Team Lead r                       Sector Manager/Director             Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
I. Provision of training,    * Macroeconomic growth    * Macroeconomic reports    * Continuous
access to credit and business  * Improving private sector  from UNTAET, World          improvements in law
support services to small       economic conditions        Bank and IMF;               and order
business and entrepreneurs    * Increased levels of new  * ADB reports on state of    * Emplacement of better
which will "support rapid       investment                 banking and                 business enabling
private sector recovery"      * Increases in number of     microfinance conditions     frameworks
registered businesses;  * Reports on economic       * Improving foreign
improved availability of   conditions at the district  investment regulatory
services                   and sub-district levels    climate, including
* increased proportion of    * Business surveys of      regulations relating to
businesses workers in      economic activity          land title and
industrial/service sectors   * Institution of private  transactions
of the economy             sector-led business      * Improving economic
culture                    policy-making capacity
2. The establishment of a     * Increases in credit      * UNTAET and ADB           * Commencement of ADB
microfinance bank and           availability               reports on microfinance     and other microfinance
rehabilitation of credit unions,   * Establishment of      advancements including      projects
especially those providing      sub-district and rural     establishment of         * Re-establishment of
service to rural areas          level financial            systems, public take-up     credit unions at the
operations                rates, repayment rates      sub-district and rural
* Creation of East Timor    * Supervision mission       levels
microfinance bank          reports                  * Supportive policy and
administrative
environment
3. Poverty reduction         * New job creation and      * UNTAET, WFP, FAO         * Conducive climatic
old job preservation       and NGO assessments        conditions for
* Reduction in previously    on poverty rates            agriculture
assessed poverty levels  * Local level assessments    * Mitigated urbanization
* Improvements in food       on food security and     * Well managed
security                   other improvements in      repatriation of refugees
welfare and human
development
4. Community development,    * Poverty reduction         * Social sector and        * Continued public
social safety net, strengthened    * Increase in-agricultural  agriculture sector      support for public works
agriculture sector and          output and productivity    reports                     employment-generation
improved social cohesion     * Minimized social unrest                                 projects and
development of
agricultural sector and
practices
- 32 -



Key Performance       l                          1
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
The main objectives of the    * Number of loans           * Implementing agency      * Efficient screening of
Small Enterprises Project 11    approved                    data                       loan applications
(SEP 11) are to generate      * Value of loans approved    * Surveys of supported    * Institutional support for
employment, accelerate          (a) as percentage of total  entities                    project
economic growth, and             available funds          * UNTAET/East Timor        * Improving business
improve SME competitiveness     (b) as percentage of total  administration and          enabling environment
through providing an SME         ftinds approved to         NGO data                 * Stable and improving
line of credit, capacity         women                    * Supervision and             macroeconomic
building focused on private   * Value of disbursements      evaluation mission          conditions
sector development, and         (a) as percentage of total  reports                  * Continued low levels of
rehabilitation of market         available funds          * Increasing income and       rent-seeking within
infrastructure.                 (b) as percentage of total  wealth levels               domestic administration
funds approved           * Increases in govemment   * Sufficiently capable
* Number of new jobs         tax receipts                implementing agency
directly created         * Implementing agency      * Law and order enabling
(a) as percentage of new   data                        access to rural areas
jobs for women           * PMU data                  * Infrastructure enabling
* Average loan size        * UNTAET data                 sub-district and rural
* Number of loans          * Agriculture project and     access
rescheduled                NGO data                 * Effective donor
* Repayment rate           * Improved productivity       coordination, especially
* Portfolio at risk by age    and competitiveness in     between World Bank
(1, 30, 60, 90, 90+ days)  agriculture and other       and ADB, but also ILO
* Number of Business          certain key industries     and UNDP
Development Services
delivered
* Number of trainers
trained
* Number of training
recipients
* Number of new private
sector BDS providers
* Number of supported
business regulatory
initiatives
* Number of trained
public sector officials
* Number of markets
rehabilitated
* Number of market
management groups
trained
- 33 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Creation of sustainable new   * Number of new jobs       * UNTAET data              * Policy environment
jobs in the most competitive  * Durability of new jobs   * Supervision mission         enables private sector to
enterprises and industry        created                    findings                    respond to project
sectors                                                  * IMF employment              offerings
figures                 * Continuation of
pro-private sector
policies during
transition from
UNTAET to East
Timorese administration
Identification of and support  * Out-performance of      * Business survey data     * Macroeconomic
to those enterprises and        identified enterprises   * FIAS data on               framework conducive to
industries with the greatest    and industry sectors       investment                  start-up and promotion
potential to develop          * Attraction of new          improvements                of key industry sectors
comparative advantage           domestic and foreign     * Supervision mission      * Adequate disbursement
investment supporting      findings                   and procurement
the enhancement of      * Chamber of commerce         counterpart capacity
comparative advantage      assessments              * Alleviation of critical
constraints
Tailored business training to  * Delivery of training    * Business training        * Training needs correctly
small and medium-sized          based on findings of       delivery program reports    diagnosed
businesses, entrepreneurs and   consultative needs       * Training evaluation      * Training skillfully
farmers                         assessment                 feedback                    delivered
* Train-the-trainer and
training of BDC staff
courses
Improved ability of small     * Support to businesses    * Accounts of              * Improved infrastructure
businesses to procure input     with pricing,              procurement support         and supply and
goods and equipment via         procurement and            from implementing           distribution channels
project-supported market        information access via     agency, chambers of      * Prevention of distortive
linkages                        web-based systems          commerce and business       conditions such as
associations and PIU       corruption at ports and
customs
Establishment of Business     * Construction and         * BDC reports on           * Successful creation of
Development Centers             commencement of            operations                  and support to
providing business support      operations of BDCs       * PIU reports                 district-level business
services to small business at  * Use of BDCs to provide    * UNTAET Land and           associations
the district level and          training in IT skills and  Property Commission       * Satisfactory access to
downwards                       familiarization and,       reports                     appropriate buildings or
subsequently,            * Supervision mission        construction sites
telecommunications         findings                 * Adequate procurement
services                                              and disbursement
capacity of counterparts
- 34-



Delivery of loans to district,  * Loan applications        * Implementing agency,       * Adequate training of
sub-district and rural level}    reviewed, processed,         PIU data and                credit staff by
approved and funds          UNTAET/East Timor           implementing agency
disbursed                   administration district   * Access to transport
* Visits to sub-districts     reports                   * Support from district
and rural areas made                                    and sub-district level
regularly in order to                                   administration
manage loans and
repayments
Development of financial       * Improved processing       * Implementing agency        * Consumer willingness to
services via support to          and loan management          reports                     support and demand
implementing financial           techniques                * Assessments from             credit and other banking
institution                    * Management of banking        chambers of commerce        services
information systems         and business              * Legal and
* Development of ability      associations                 macroeconomic
to take collateral       * IMF reporting                environment induces
* Development of other      * Supervision mission          provision of additional
services such as            findings                    services by financial
inter-district letters of  * Client surveys             organizations
credit
* Development credit
information-sharing
system between lenders
Access of banking operations   * District, sub-district and    * Supervision mission    * Ability of project to
at the rural level               rural level visits by        findings                    enforce implementation
implementing agency      * PIU and implementing         agreement for provision
credit staff and PIU        agency reports              of such services
* Establishment of
permanent centers as
necessary
Restoration of efficient credit    * Improved consumer     * Implementing agency        * Legal and social
culture                          understanding of credit      data                        environment and
practices and products   * Credit sector reports        techniques to promote
* Loan performance          * Supervision mission          and enforce repayment
* Support to establish a       findings                    of loans
credit
information-sharing
system among lenders
- 35 -



| Key Performance       lll
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub7components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. SME Line of Credit     $4.44m                       * Monthly reports from     * Physical and procedural
implementing agency,      arrangements in place to
CGD                       deliver lending program
* Monthly reports from    * Good project
PIU                       management
2. PSD Capacity-building    S2.28m                     * Monthly reports from     * Ability to hire
implementing agency       appropriate consultants
* Monthly reports from       for TA components
PIU
3. Market Rehabilitation  $1.0m                        * Monthly reports from     * Adequate disbursement
PIU                       and procurement ability
* Monthly reports from      to fund construction and
BDC management and        operation of BDCs
network
4. PIU Technical Assistance   $0.31m                   * Reports on training      * Ability to supervise
delivery and evaluation   consultants
analysis
S8.03m
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.44 million
SME Line of Credit
To meet continued outstanding demand for SME loans, and noting that no other independent SME lending facility
is yet available, a further $4.44 million line of credit will be offered on commercial terms under SEP II. The SEP
11 line of credit will draw extensively upon lessons learned during SEP 1. Accordingly, the line of credit will be
similar in style and function to that in SEP I but will incorporate adjustments to the delivery method, targeting,
interest rate and management processes.
The Grant will finance S4.00 million of the $4.44 million SME line of credit. The Grant contribution of $4.00
million represents 90% of the total credit line. The remaining 10 percent of the credit line, $0.44 million, will be
contributed by Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD), the financial intermediary and project entity for the SME Line of
Credit component. CGD was formerly known as Banco Nacional Ultramarino or BNU. This represents their
contribution to a 10 percent risk-sharing arrangement as part of the line of credit.
The SEP II line of credit will provide increased focus on the agriculture sector and agri-business opportunities, and
in support of this $2.00 million of the total loan funds will be earmarked for agri-business endeavors. Apart from
this earmarked amount, the line of credit will not seek to target particular agri-business activities (e.g. equipment
for canning or bottling operations, fish and meat processing, roasting and packaging operations for coffee targeted
to the export market, livestock trading, com oil production, copra processing). In addition to the agri-business
sector, viable loan applications from other productive industries such as small-scale carpentry shops, mechanical
centers or manufacturing facilities also will be supported. The SEP II line of credit will discourage financing of
smaller service sector businesses (i.e. kiosks, taxis, restaurants), especially those deemed more susceptible to the
future negative demand shock expected with the coming reduction in the size of the international staff presence in
East Timor.  A  notable exception to this would be businesses servicing the prospective tourism  sector.
Consideration may be given to extension of credit to smaller financial institutions, such as microfinance
organizations wanting to develop their own lending programs for the lower range of SME lending (say $500 -
$ 1000 loans), especially with the aim of horizontal expansion of operations into outlying districts and sub-districts.
Ineligible business activities -- forming the "negative list" of the project manual -- would include purchase of land;
trade of drugs; sale of weapons; and, activities with a high negative environmental impact.
Following a comprehensive appraisal of the financial institutions in East Timor, it has been agreed to reappoint
Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD), a Portuguese state-owned commercial bank, as the project entity for SEP 11.
(The appraisal of the candidate financial institutions has been separately documented.) In brief, CGD was
determined to be the most appropriate intermediary candidate for the following reasons. First, CGD has built up
valuable experience during SEP I in delivering SME lending in East Timor, especially in the outlying districts.
CGD management has agreed to establish a permanent staff presence at the district capitals of Dili, Baucau,
Maliana, Oecussi. The staff will hold regularly scheduled office hours in the SEP Business Development Centers,
make disbursements, and track and enforce repayments. The CGD district staff also will service the remaining
districts, as well as the sub-district levels. This is expected to have a strong positive effect on district loan
management and repayment rates. The second reason to reappoint CGD is that ANZ, the other full service bank in
East Timor, decided that it was not prepared to administer the line of credit at this time. Third, the resident
microfinance institutions, whose operations remain strictly microcredit-related, were fully appraised and deemed to
be unsuited at this time to deliver a $4.44 million SME line of credit.
In addition, CGD has committed to assume 10 percent of the risk capital of the line of credit. For example, for
every $100 lent under the project, $90 would be from SEP funds and $10 from CGD. Repayments, too, would be
allocated according to the same 90:10 ratio. Under SEP 1, CGD had none of its own capital at risk. This was an
unavoidable arrangement in SEP I in the aftermath of the devastation following the 1999 popular consultation.
- 37 -



However, noting the improved economic and business climate, the steady progress toward transition, improved
information, and the high level of repayment to date under SEP I (>82 percent to date), it is assessed as reasonable
and, moreover, advantageous for a portion of lending risk now to be assumed by CGD. Risk-sharing by CGD will
help improve the loan analysis process, enhance loan management and performance, and help shore up the credit
culture. CGD's assumption of a small portion of the risk also will transmit a strong signaling effect to the market
that the level of risk involved in lending to SMEs, including those outside of Dili, has fallen by at least the same
amount as the level of lending risk to be assumed by CGD in SEP 11. Although under SEP I the arrangement with
CGD sought to create incentives to maximize portfolio performance, the risk-sharing arrangement will promote
greater efforts at due diligence and thus ensure a higher residual of the portfolio to revert to the futLre govemment
from the repaid loan funds.
Like SEP 1, the SEP 11 line of credit will operate on a revolving basis. Once loan monies are repaid they become
eligible again for re-lending. Following the close of the project and the final repayment cycle, the repaid loan
funds revert to the future government. One option is for the repaid project funds (estimated at 80 percent of the
original value of the line of credit - S3.2 million) to be injected into the paid-up capital of the Microfinance
Development Bank planned to be established by the ADB, rather than allocating it to consolidated government
revenue. The funds would then be demarcated as a separate lending window for SMEs, thus helping to ensure the
sustainable impact of the SEP II SME lending intervention. Another means of enhancing sustainability is the
training and experience in SME lending being accrued by CGD facilitators as well as by CGD as an organization.
In addition, the capacity-building component of the project (see below) will skill East Timorese in making loan
applications of a standard acceptable to SME lenders (as distinct from microfinance providers).
As in SEP 1, the SEP [I maximum loan term will remain at 36 months with an initial grace period of tip to three
months, in which case interest is capitalized. The repayment period should be as short as feasible and no loan
repayment should be due after December 31, 2004. The terms and conditions of loans, and services provided by
CGD will remain the same. With a view toward sustainability of SME lending in East Timor, the interest rate will
be increased to 14 percent per annum from the previous rate of 10 percent, reflecting a move away from the
suLbsidized rate and toward a more market rate. The only commercial entity on-lending its own funds in East
Timor, CGD, expects a return of approximately 18 percent on fully secured US dollar loans. (It should be noted
that SEP loans are not fully secured.) Given the high risk environment, it is calculated that another commercial
bank on-lending its own capital would seek a significant interest spread on top of LIBOR that would put interest
rates over 20 percent. The rate of 10 percent per annum under SEP 1, therefore, includes a substantial subsidy.
The 14 percent agreement is a concession to not place too harsh a burden on the borrower while moving toward a
market rate.  When SEP I and SEP II funds are transferred to the future government of East Timor, the
government may utilize the funds to undertake SME lending through a private entity. Therefore, it is important
that SEP 11 lend to commercial -- or close to commercial -- rates, ensuring that the future financial intermediary
(e.g. government) would inherit a viable business and is thus successful. It also would ensure that thc financial
intermediary inherit customers with a commercial credit culture to support commercial lending.
Increasing the rate also will make it possible for CGD operating costs to be covered by the revenues (fee plus
interest) alone. Under SEP 1, CGD receives the 1.5 percent fee, plus 9.5 percent of total repayments received
(principal + interest). CGD's retention of a portion of the capital base results in an incremental depletion of the
capital base. Unlike under SEP 1, no portion of the repayment of SEP capital would be used for payment of CGD,
thus creating a more self-sustaining scheme.
SEP II loans will normally be available in the range of $1,000 to S50,000. This represents an increase in the lower
limit of $500 instituted under SEP I. This increased lower limit is preferred in order not to crowd out burgeoning
microfinance lending programs, which are expected to become more readily available from 2001 onwards via
various donor and agency programs, and to improve the efficiency of the line of credit.  In exceptional
circumstances, loans in excess of $50,000 may be made after prior review by the Bank acting in consultation with
the South Pacific Project Facility (SPPF.)  In one other departure from the SEP I implementation model, the
actions required up to the point of loan application acceptance -- such as the public infonnation campaign and
provision of assistance with project proposal preparation by potential borrowers -- will be separated out from
CGD's credit application and lending function, and will be carried out by BDC Network staff (see below).
- 38 -



IDA, in coordination with Government, will conduct a review of the line of credit once $2.00 million of the $4.44
million is approved for lending by CGD. This is in addition to regular supervision missions by the Bank and other
monitoring and audit procedures by the PIU. Further, should the loan performance rate fall beneath 80 percent
then a review of the portfolio and procedures is triggered and is to be carried out jointly by CGD, government and
IDA with a view to determining a remedial solution. (It should be noted that the SEP I line of credit is through
about a third of its life and repayments exceed 82 percent.)
Project Component 2 - US$2.28 million
PSD Capacity-buildin2
The Grant will provide a total of $2.24 million to finance the following activities:
A. Business Development Services:
1. Consultant services for the operation and maintenance of the Business Development Center (BDC) network.
2. Consultant services to deliver Business Skills Training via the BDCs and other facilities.
3. Goods to futmish and equip the four Business Development Centers.
B. Civil Service Training:
1. Consultant services to deliver training on PSD issues to government staff members.
C. Business/Regulatory Environment
I.  Consultant services to provide technical assistance on the development of the business/regulatory
framnework.
A.      Business Development Services - $1.88 million
Consistent with the recommendations of the JAM and the TSS, and noting persistent and reasoned demand from
the East Timorese leadership, business and wider community, and other agencies and donors working in East
Timor, SEP II will finance a large commitment to the building of private sector capacity. The main objective of
BDS financed under the project is to generate employment and increase productivity and economic growth.
A principal underpinning of the Business Development Services (BDS) component is the line of credit. Specific
BDS will be targeted to both existing and potential SEP I and SEP II borrowers. For approved borrowers,
wide-ranging support will be offered to manage and develop the businesses, thus ensuring a higher level of loan
performance. Potential borrowers will be assisted in developing a sound and well-presented project proposal before
submission of a formal loan application to the implementing bank. (Under the first phase of SEP I lending, more
than S30m of loan requests were received, yet less than one-tenth of the applications were assessed as viable project
proposals.) In order to avoid some of the problems experienced during SEP I, provision of BDS is intended to
ameliorate the disappointment of the rejected applicants. Support to this group would include referral to other
sources of credit (e.g. microcredit), assistance in revision of the project plan, and suggestions for new business
ideas.
BDS is acutely required for much broader purposes: to build the capacity of the broader private sector community,
especially in the 12 districts outside of Dili; to provide services to private microfinance providers and borrowers
under other credit projects (including the credit tnions to be rehabilitated under the ADB project); and, to provide
training to business associations and market management groups. SEP II will provide for the contracting of the
services of a consulting firm to deliver the training component under SEP II. (Because the SEP 11 training
represents a continuation of training under SEP 1, it is expected that the same firm will deliver both the SEP I and
SEP 11 training component. This is pending successful delivery of the SEP I training component.) A central tenet
of the SEP II training component, as in SEP 1, is to make a strong investment in train-the-trainer programs which
will run over the life of the project.
SEP 11 will finance the delivery of BDS via a variety of platforms. SEP I allocated financing for the rehabilitation
of buildings obtained from govemment under a two-year "public use" lease to become Business Development
Centers (BDCs). While the rehabilitation work of the BDC sites is funded under SEP 1, a consulting firm will be
- 39 -



contracted under SEP II to provide management and coordination of the BDCs and the coordination office. The
four BDC sites -- Dili, Baucau, Oecussi and Bobonaro -- were chosen on the basis of a variety of factors including
need, location and potential utility, and will be tasked (with the exception of Oecussi) to deliver services to the
subordinate districts without dedicated BDCs. In support of the operations of the BDC network, a small separate
office to be known as the BDC coordination office will be attached to the Dili BDC.
The main task of the BDCs is to facilitate the delivery of BDS. Another principal function of the BDCs, through
training to interested parties and demonstration effects, is to encourage the private sector replication of their
services and facilities. The imposition of (in most cases, nominal) fees for services will be an important part of
BDS delivery. The main purpose of fees will be to secure user commitment, rather than cost recovery, and to help
pave the way for later private sector commercialization of BDS. The fee structure will be concluded by the BDC
consulting firm, and subject to review and approval by government and IDA.
Given the sustainability approach noted above, the principal measures of sustainability of the BDS offered under
this project will be the improvement in capacity (and achievement) of the main East Timorese private sector
participants and the level of ongoing private sector replication of BDS. A range of indicators will be raised to
evaluate and monitor BDS delivery and impact.
B.     Civil Service Training on PSD - $0.15 million
The specific objective of this component is to enhance the capabilities of the East Timorese civil service to analyze,
design, and implement strategies to support PSD in a developing country economy, and to understand the need for
policies and regulatory frameworks that advance PSD To accomplish this objective, and to ensure sustainability of
the training program, a consulting firm will be hired to train the core group of the East Timorese civil service on a
part-time basis over a 15-month period.
The training will be targeted primarily to middle level government officials from the ministries of economy and
finance; the central bank; and district administration offices. Trainees will be selected from among those who have
the greatest impact on the policy-making and change process. Trainees, to be identified by govemment, will be
selected from three groups: Ministry for Economy and Development (approximately. 10); other national and
district government offices (approximately 10); private sector participants (approximately 5). The training
program will encompass a range of basic to more complex PSD issues. These issues would be incorporated into
four distinct yet integrated modules:
Module I
Bzusiness environment: implications of sound business environment for private sector-led growth; mechanisms and
policies that provide incentives for private sector to improve and innovate, such as property rights, corporate
governance.
Small buisiness development: good practice policies to promote small and micro enterprise development.
Legal and institutional environment:  enabling  roles of efficient bureaucracy (e.g. business licensing),
legal/regulatory framework and rule of law, business associations/chamber of commerce; detrimental impact of
legal/regulatory uncertainty.
Module 2
Microeconomic principles: basic introduction to theories of supply and demand (including aggregate supply and
demand and general equilibrium); profit maximization/loss minimization; "perfect" competition versus market
distortions of monopoly and oligarchy; externalities and public versus private goods; incentives (game theory).
Macroeconomic principles: basic introduction to growth theory (with the take-away that PSD leads to growth),
higher per capita GDP, and lower poverty; theories of consumption, savings, and investment; intemational trade
and capital flows; central banking; labor markets and inflation.
Practical tools: basic tools (e.g. statistics, accounting, finance, management, Internet) and understanding of their
importance for PSD policy making.
Module 3
Financial sector: banking services that enable PSD.
- 40 -



Fiscal policy: impact on investment of domestic taxation.
Trade policy: impact on investment of import/export duties and other barriers.
Module 4
Privatization. advantages/disadvantages of private versus public ownership in different sectors; how to improve
the quality and quantity of services, while reducing the burden on constrained public finances and expanding
services to the poor.
Infrastructure. role of transportation and communications for PSD; the roles of competition and choice, regulatory
structures, mode of financing, and new technologies.
Business ethics and anti-corruption. fostering the spirit of enterprise and accountability, promoting faimess,
transparency and responsibility.
Other issues. quality management, labor and environmental regulations.
The training program design will be based on a wide range of teaching techniques, including videos, role playing,
negotiation exercises, videoconferencing, best practices and case studies. The training will be based on both PSD
theory and practice: during the classroom sessions, participants will be exposed to PSD theory during the morning
sessions; aftemoon sessions will be focused on case studies and practical applications. The overall training
program is designed to be delivered over a 15-month period. Each of the (three-month) modules will commence
with one to two weeks of classroom training. The training will combine face-to-face activities with one or two
videoconferences. Following the classroom training, each month a one-half day videoconference will be scheduled
to allow participants to discuss, with external experts, the lessons learned and challenges faced in implementing
the training tools. A consulting firm will be financed under the project to develop the training, design the modules
and contact/hire other experts, and prepare and provide the training materials to the trainees.
C.      Business Regulatory Environment - $0.25 million
A central impediment to the successful development of East Timor's private sector in the medium- to long-term is
the lack of a functioning business enabling environment. As East Timor takes on more and more of the precepts of
an independent country, it will need additional resources devoted to the emplacement of a modern, international
best-practice, and highly suitable private sector enabling framework. Given this, SEP 11 is including this
component to provide sharply targeted assistance to the development of the business enabling environment. Thus,
the work of this component is supportive of, and integrated with, the other aspects of this project, especially the
lending program and the skilling of the public sector PSD staff. This component also is intended to follow on from
the regulatory work done on the land and property administration in East Timor -- so important to PSD -- under
SEP 1.
To implement this component, a consulting firm will be tasked to deliver ongoing technical assistance to the
Ministry for Economy and Development on a part-time basis. And, in an effort to build capacity beyond the public
sector, the firm will be requested to sub-contract East Timorese lawyers as part of the team delivering the technical
assistance. The goal is to abet local domestic capacity to consider and advance appropriate legislation and
regulation, both from a technical legal point of view and especially from the point of view of practical policy
implications. The range of areas to be supported will be wide, should not be overly prescribed at the outset of SEP
II's project life, and will be somewhat subject to the discretion of the incumbent relevant economic minister.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.00 million
Market Rehabilitation
The Grant will provide a total of $1.00 million to find sub-grants to the 13 districts of East Timor for market
rehabilitation.
In addition to supporting the creation of sustainable jobs through the SEP 11 lending program, the enhancement of
the regulatory environment and BDS delivery, the appraisal work found strong demand and need for improved
marketplace facilities, both at the district and sub-district level.  Although some rehabilitative work on
marketplaces has already occurred, the vast majority of active produce and goods markets remain in a state of
- 41 -



either partial or total destruction or in a dilapidated condition due to lapsed maintenance. As a consequence,
farmers and traders have often resorted to selling their goods on crowded sidewalks of larger district capitals, or at
makeshift shelters surrounding the inoperative marketplaces. Such marketplace infrastructure is an important
economic and social focal-point for the population, benefiting a wide segment of the society. Marketplace
rehabilitation work will have multiple benefits: employment generation at the district and sub-district levels;
enhancement of valuable construction skills; and facilitation of improved trading conditions,
As mentioned above, a small amount of market rehabilitation work has already occurred in the districts although
several large projects have been implemented in Dili and Comoro.  In order to determine what market
rehabilitation work had been carried out or planned, as part of its pre-appraisal work IDA sent a survey to each
district office and to the principal agencies involved with market rehabilitation. (The collated results of this survey
are included in Annex 11). In short, the survey found relatively even demand for further market rehabilitation
work across all districts. Taking into account the survey's findings, this component will allocate funds of roughly
$1 million according to the relative populations of the 13 districts as follows: Dili - $167,000; Baucau - $120,000;
Ermera - $111,000; Bobonaro - $84,000; Viqueque - $80,000; Lautem - $68,000; Oecussi - $66,000; Ainaro -
$59,000; Liquica - $55,000; Kovalima - $54,000; Manufahi - $48,000; Manatuto - $45,000; and Aileu - $43,000.
The BDS component will complement this market rehabilitation work in that it will provide capacity building
training to market cooperatives to help them develop market management and maintenance plans.
Following the survey and other appraisal work, and to help ensure the best allocation of resources, it has been
determined to devolve responsibility for the implementation of this component to the district administrations
working Lnder guidance from  the PIU.  UNTAET/ETTA  district offices are to seek (especially from  the
sub-districts) expressions of interest from various community-based market management groups. In many cases,
rehabilitation work may only require a few thousand dollars. In other cases, larger marketplaces may require
greater amounts of work. It will be up to the district administrations, in consultation with local communities, to
prioritize the need for each proposed rehabilitation project. The community will assume responsibility, under
district administration supervision, to manage and implement the rehabilitation work and to sub-contract services
as necessary. This component is very much demand-driven and given the small works involved and in order to
help foster expeditious implementation, any funds not expended by the respective district administrations under
this component within six months of project effectiveness will be redirected to other districts with higher
demand/more expeditious implementation at the discretion of the PIU.
Based on guidelines provided by the PIU for operating these sub-grants, each district office shall seek proposals
from community-based market management groups for the rehabilitation of their markets. The PIU is expected to
issue a timeline for the implementation of this project and to develop a brief guidance document for all districts. In
many cases, districts have already prepared priority lists of needed work and so should be able to expedite their
applications. Once districts have agreed on their market rehabilitation work plan, this should be submitted to the
PIU who will then transfer that district's full allocation of funds. The district administrations will be required to
confirm to the PIU that marketplace rehabilitation works were carried out and that all project funds were used
appropriately. After the rehabilitation phase, the BDC Network will provide training in basic management
services to the individual market cooperatives that will then be responsible for managing and maintaining their
marketplaces.
Project Component 4 - US$0.31 million
PIU Technical Assistance
Under this component, the Grant will provide $0.26 million to finance the following activities:
A.      Consultant services to provide technical assistance to the Project Implementation Unit.
B.      Incremental operating costs for the Project Implementation Unit.
C.      Consultant services to provide for audits of the project.
D.      PIU training, including travel costs.
E.      Miscellaneous items for the PIU office.
- 42 -



A PIU will be established within the Ministry for Economy and Development to oversee SEP 11 implementation.
The PIU will manage contracts for consultant services; submit related payment requests to CGD; oversee
allocations for market rehabilitation; and produce monthly and other required reports on the project.  An East
Timorese government official has been appointed to the project as manager. The Grant will provide funding for
technical assistance, including the following consultants: Finance Specialist, Business Development Specialist,
Procurement Specialist. These three consultants, East Timorese nationals, will be aided by an international
consultant to provide project management consulting, financial and procurement services and maximum skills
transfer. The PIU will be located in the Fomento Building of Government. A further $10,000 has been set aside
to fund environmental reviews, as necessary, of proposed projects to be financed under the SME line of credit and
the market rehabilitation component. Government will contribute staff, equipment and infrastructure estimated to
cost $0.05 million.
- 43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Local          Foreign            Total
Project Cost By Component                          US $million      US $million      US $million
SME Line of Credit                                                       4.44             0.00             4.44
PSD Capacity-building                                                    0.23             1.76             1.99
Market Rehabilitation                                                    1.00             0.00             1.00
PIU Teclnical Assistance                                                 0.13             0.15             0.28
Total Baseline Cost                                                      5.80              1.91            7.71
Physical Contingencies                                                  0.00             0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                                                     0.15             0.17             0.32
Total Project Costs                       5.95             2.08             8.03
Total Financing Required                         5.95            2.08             8.03
ldcnltiiiablc taxcs and dutics arc (0.02 (lS$rn) anld thc total project cost. net oftaxcs, is 8.01 (LS$ml). Theri-eorlc. th plojCct cost shairing ratio is 93.66%4) of
o,.,1 prc-jcct cost net of taxes.
- 44 -



Annex 4
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
CGD
Caixa Geral de Depositos
SEP2
Index of Recovery                             At 31/12/2004
Index of Recovery           70%        80%        90%
Total SEP2 Investment                       4,400,000
Total SEP2 Repayments                                  2,340,021  2,904,939  3,526,766
Direct Costs                                              664,535    664,535    664,535
Indirect Costs                                            204,891    204,891    204,891
Total Costs                                             869,426   869,426   869,426
Income from 1.5% fee                                       98,256    102,886    107,515
Income from Interest                                      693,786    820,912    955,107
Bank Income                                             792,042   923,797  1,062,622
Difference between Total Costs & CGD Income              -77,384     54,371    193,196
Coverage of Total Costs                                   91.10%     106.25%    122.22%
Difference Between Direct Costs and CGD Income          127,507   259,262   398,087
Coverage of Direct Costs by Income                       119.19%    139.01%     159.90%
- 45 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Years Ending
December 30
Year1e    arar 2     Year3    Year4  | Year75 ear               Year7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           6.4        1.1        0.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                                             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          6.4        1.1        0.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              6.4        1.1        0.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   6.0        1.0       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.3        0.1       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     6.4         1.1       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
|Year1       Year2      Year3     Year4      Year5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          6.4        1.1        0.5       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs                                           0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs         6.4        1.1        0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             6.4         1.1       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  6.0        1.0        0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.3        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     6.4        1.1       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Procurement
The proposed Small Enterprises Project II (SEP II) is the second private sector development grant for East Timor.
The first Small Enterprises Project (SEP 1) is ongoing and has faced significant delays in implementation.
Therefore, in designing SEP 11, lessons learned and experience gained during implementation of SEP I have been
incorporated.
Profect Components
The project includes the following components: (a) line of credit for Small and Medium Enterprises (USS4.44
million); (b) capacity building for Private Sector Development (US$2.28 million); (c) grants for the rehabilitation
of markets (US$1.00 million) and (d) strengthening of SEP II Project Implementation Unit (PIU - US$0.31
million). The line of credit will be implemented through the Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos (CGD) on behalf of the
Government. The capacity building component for Private Sector Development will be implemented by the PIU.
Grants for market rehabilitation will be implemented by the District Administrations, with guidance from the PIU.
The PIU will be responsible for the overall monitoring and coordination of the proposed Project on behalf of the
Government, and providing progress reports and other relevant information to the Government and IDA.
Procurement Capacity Assessnzenzt
The procurement capacity of the SEP I PIU has been very weak and significant delays have been encountered
during project implementation.  Under SEP II, a separate PIU will be established, including a position of
Procurement Specialist. A National Procurement Specialist, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA, will fill this position. The National Procurement Specialist is likely to have limited exposure to
international procurement. Therefore, a short-term International Procurement/Project Specialist (PIU Advisor)
with experience in intemational and/or Bank procurement, will support the National Procurement Specialist. This
short-term (twelve person-months staggered support over the life of the Project) PIU Advisor will be funded under
the proposed Project and would act as a mentor to the National Procurement Specialist so as to enable him/her to
take over major procurement responsibilities. The establishment of the PIU, including appointmient of key staf
and the PIUAdvisor is a condition fior effectiveness of the proposed Grant.
Since the new PIU has not been established, an assessment of the capacity of the proposed PIU is inappropriate.
However, a short overall assessment of the procurement environment in East Timor has been carried out on the
basis of OCSPR memorandum dated August 11, 1998: Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Inmplement
Procurement: Setting of Prior Review Thresholds, and Procurement Supervision Plan. The assessment report is
separately available and addresses the legal aspects; procurement cycle management; organization and functions;
support and control systems; record keeping; staffing; general procurement environment; and general risk
assessment from a country perspective. The assessment has concluded that procurement capacity in the country is
very weak and, therefore, the overall risk assessment of the project is high. To mitigate the risks, emphasis has
been given under the project to proper staffing of the PIU and the recruitment of an international PIU Advisor,
fully conversant with the Bank's procurement policies and procedures. In FY02 the Bank will initiate a more
detailed Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).
The United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) has issued Regulation No.
UNTAET/REG/2000/10 On Public Procurement for Civil Administration in East Timor. This Regulation provides
the overall framework for public procurement. A "Public Procurement Manual for Civil Administration in East
Timor" has also been issued by UNTAET to amplify the provisions of the Regulation. Further, a Notification has
been issued on February 15, 2001 for the establishment of PIUs for implementing projects financed through Trust
Funds, with IDA as the Trustee.
- 47 -



In accordance with the Procurement Manual and the February 15, 2001 Notification, each PMU, established in
connection with a grant of more than US$5.0 million, can procure goods and services of US$100,000 or less
subject to the "certification and commitment of funds by the Financial Specialist of the PMU for such procurement;
the approval of the transaction, including the terms and conditions thereof, by the Head of the PMU, and the
execution by the Procurement Specialist of the PMU on behalf of the Transitional Administration". Contracts
above the limit have to be submitted to the Transition Contracts Committee (comprising representatives from the
Central Fiscal Authority; Office of Legal Affairs; Central Administrative Services, Fiscal Unit; and Central
Administrative Services, Supply Unit) for its consideration and approval. Internal controls have been established
for procurement, however, since procurement capacity is weak, the internal controls have not been fully effective.
Procurement capacity assessment has not been carried out for CGD, as it will be providing a line of credit and the
recipients of the loans will carry out their own procurement in accordance with established commercial practices.
Procurement Policies & Procedures
For procurement of goods and works, financed in part or whole from the Grant funds, the procedures outlined in
the Bank's Guidelines/for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised Janutary and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Consultants' services financed in part or in whole
from the Grant funds will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1977 (Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
While Regulation 2000/10 has taken into account the Model Law on Procuirement of Goocis, Construction and
Services, formulated by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, several of the provisions are
not consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, e.g., US Dollar is stated as the currency of payment,
whereas the Bank allows bidders to express their bids and receive payments in the currency of any member country
up to a maximum  of three foreign currencies.  The Regulation places emphasis on national sources for
procurement under US$1.0 million, while the Bank's preference is international competitive bidding, unless the
contract is unlikely to attract foreign competition. Under the Regulation the procurement entity may extend the bid
validity period, whereas under the Bank's Guidelines, the procurement entity may request extension of the bid
validity period, but bidders are not obligated to extend the date. However, the Regulation also states that if the
Regulation conflicts with the procurement rules of a donor or funding agency with which UNTAET has agreed to
comply, the requirement of those rules shall prevail. Therefore, consistent with the Regulations, all procurement
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures shall be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
For National Competitive Bidding (NCB) the procurement procedures shall be those set forth in UNTAET
Regulation No. 2000/10 of March 6, 2000 with the following clarifications required for compliance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.3 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines:
(a)    The procuring entity shall procure goods in accordance with Section 5.1 of the Regulation.  The
exceptions provided in Section 5 shall not be valid for NCB.
(b)    Section 9.1 shall be modified to provide for advertisement in the national press. Bidders shall have not
less than 30 days from the date of availability of bidding documents or advertisement in the press, whichever is
later, to prepare their bids.
(c)    Section 14.3 (g) shall be modified to read "the criteria to be used in evaluating proposals and their relative
weight, shall be expressed in monetary terms."
(d)    Under Section 15.6 the procuring entity may request extension of the bid validity period, but suppliers
shall not be required to extend such date, after bid submission.
(e)    Under Section 16 the bid security shall be set in such a way as to not unduly deter bidders from
-48 -



participating in the bidding process.
(f)    Section 18.4 shall not apply.
For selection of consuLtants, there is no conflict between the Bank's Consultants' Guidelines and the Regulations.
However, the Regulations does not require inclusion of the draft contract form in the Request for Proposals. To
meet the Bank's requirements, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals: Selection of Consulsitants (includes
Standard Forms Contract) - Julv 1997, r evised April 1998 and July 1999, shall be used while inviting proposals
for consultants' services.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurrement Methaods
Table A summarizes the project items, the related cost estimates and proposed methods of procurement. Amotnts
in parenthesis show the amounts financed by IDA. Table B summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods
and prior review.
Line of Credit (US$4,444 K): As noted above, the line of credit will be implemented through the CGD. Funds for
thc line of credit will be administered by CGD on behalf of the Government in accordance with a Subsidiary
Agreement to be entered between the two parties. For each loan, 90% would be provided from the Grant. while
CGD will contribute 10%. Loans provided to beneficiaries for Sub-projects would range between US$1,000 to
US$50,000. Under exceptional circumstances, loans in excess of US$50,000 may be made. Such large loans shall
be sLibject to prior review by IDA. Procurement would be carried out by the beneficiaries following established
commercial practices in accordance with para 3.12 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Since the sizes of the
individual loans are small, procurement through ICB is not envisaged.
Goods (US$338 K): Procurement of computers & accessories, video & audio-visual equipment, generators, office
furnishings and communications equipment are envisaged under the proposed Project.
*   Only the computers & accessories (US$209,000) shall be procured under ICB in two phases.
*   Fumiture (US$36,000) for BDCs will be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
*   Video & audio-visual equipment will be procured through international shopping (IS). The value of each such
contract shall not exceed US$25,000 and the aggregate amount shall not exceed US$35,000.
*   Office and communications equipment for BDCs will be procured through national shopping (NS). The value of
each such contract shall not exceed US$15,000 and the aggregate amount shall not exceed US$85,000.
Equipment identified for Shopping are readily available off-the-shelf and are of small value. International and
national shopping shall be carried out in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Award will be made after solicitation and evaluation of at least three written quotations from qualified
firms. In the case of international shopping, quotations will be sought from a minimum of three qualified suppliers
from at least two different countries.
Consuiltants' Services - Firmts (US$1,789 K): Five contract packages are envisaged under the proposed Project.
*   The contract for Business Development Services (US$1,059,000) shall be awarded through Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection Method (QCBS). Since QCBS uses a competitive process among short-listed finns that takes
account the quality of the proposals and the cost of services in the selection process, this method is considered
appropriate for this major contract.
*   Consultants for Business Skills Training (USS300,000) would be selected through Quality-Based Selection (QBS)
method. Since the assignment will have high downstream impact, this method was considered appropriate. Under
SEP 1, also consultants Business Skills Training are being selected through QBS method.
*   Consultants for Civil Service Training (USS150,000) and for assisting the East Timor government in setting up a
Business Regulatory Environment (US$250,000) would be selected through Fixed Budget Selection method in
- 49 -



accordance with para 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultants' Guidelines. Since the assignments are precisely defined,
fixed btidgets have been allocated for the assignments.
*   East Timor has not yet established an appropriate institution for auditing of project accounts. Therefore, IDA will
finance the services of auditors (US$30,000). Such auditors would be selected through Least-Cost Selection
method, as auditors typically carry out auditing tasks under well-defined terms of reference and professional
standards.
Conszultants' Services - Individuals (US$140 K): Individual consultants [short-term PIU Advisor, short-term
International Environment Specialist (if necessary), National Procurement Specialist, National Financial
Management Specialist and National Business Development Specialist] would be financed from the proceeds of the
Grant. For the functions envisaged, the experience of the individuals is paramount and no additional home office
professional support is required. Selection will be on the basis of the qualifications of the individuals for the
assignment and in accordance with Section V of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Grant for Market Rehabilitation (US$1,000 K): The proposed Project will provide sub-grants to the 13 districts of
East Timor for market rehabilitation. Allocations for each district ranges from US$43,000 to US$167,000 (details
are in Annex 2) and are roughly according to the relative populations. Implementation of this component would be
delegated to the district administration working under the guidance of the PIU. Based on guidelines provided by
the PIU for operating these sub-grants, each district office will seek Market Stib-project proposals from
community-based market management groups for rehabilitation of their markets. These proposals would be
reviewed and prioritized by the district administration, with the objective of utilizing the ftinds allocated to each
district in an optimal manner. Following this review, the recommendations of the district administrations will be
submitted to the PIU for final review and allocations. Once allocations of the sub-grants are made for Market
Sub-projects, the market management groups shall be responsible for utilizing the ftinds on the basis of their
proposals under the oversight of the District Administrators. In many cases, rehabilitation works may require only
a few thousand dollars, while some of the bigger market places may require larger amounts of works. Contracts for
the rehabilitation works valued at US$10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$35,000 for
each Market sub-project, may be procured under Community Participation in Procurement, in accordance with
para 3.15 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.  For very small rehabilitation works costing less than US$2,500
per contract up to an aggregate of US$10,000 for each Market Sub-project, the market management groups may
directly employ laborers and purchase the construction materials, at market price.  For rehabilitation works
contracts ranging between US$2,500 to US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$25,000 for each Market Sub-project,
the contracts may be awarded as lump-sum fixed price contracts on the basis of written quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors. If competition among three qualified domestic contractors is not possible, the
market management group may award the contract to a qualified firm based upon a comparison of written
quotations from two qualified domestic contractors, or award the contract directly to the sole qualified contractor or
directly employ laborers and purchase the construction materials. A written invitation providing, as a minimum, a
detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement, and relevant drawings will be provided to qualified bidders. When two or more competitive bids are
received, the award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder. All contracts above US 10,000 will be awarded
under NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. These requirements would be included in the Market Project Manual
for operating the grants. To ensure that the funds are used for the intended purposes, the District Development
Officers in each district would monitor the use of the funds. In addition, the three National Specialists within PIU
will carry out regular field visits to review and supervise the works on a sample basis. The PIU will prepare the
Market Project Manual and submit it to IDA for review and approval. Approval by IDA oJ the Market Project
Manual Jor operating the sueb-grants shall be a condition for disbursement under this component.
Training for PIU Staff (US$33 K): This amount has been allocated under the Grant for external and internal
training of PIU staff.
BDC Maintenance Costs (US$186 K): This amomnt has been allocated for the maintenance costs of the Business
Development Centers (BDCs). The BDCs will be rehabilitated under the ongoing SEP I. These funds would be
Litilized for minor civil works. The contracts for these civil works may be awarded as lump-sum fixed price
contracts on the basis of written quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors.  A written
- 50 -



invitation providing, as a minimum, a detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement, and relevant drawings will be provided to qualified bidders. When
two or more competitive bids are received, the award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
PIU Operating Costs (US$25 K): Reasonable expenditures incurred by the PIU would be financed from the
proceeds of the Grant. The costs eligible for financing include: office supplies, bank charges; Project auditing
costs; transportation for district travel; business communications; translation services; office supplies; and, three
project team retreats. This excludes staff salaries , which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the
Project.
Procurement and Selection Planning
Draft Procurement and Selection Plans have been prepared and are being reviewed by IDA in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph I of Appendix I to the respective Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and selection of all
consultants shall be undertaken in accordance with Plans approved by IDA.
Use of Standard Documents
For ICB procurement of goods, the use of Bank's Standard Bidding Documents: Procurement of Goods, January
1995 edition, revised March 2000 and January 2001 is mandatory. For NCB procurement of goods. these
standard documents shall be adapted by the PIU and submitted to IDA for review and approval. Once approved,
these documents shall be used by the PIU. For selection of consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals: Selection of Consultants (includes Standard Forms Contract) - July 1997, revised April 1998 and July1
1999, shall be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form: Procurement of Goods or Works - April 1996 and
Sample Form of Evaluation Report: Selection of Consultants - October 1999 shall be followed for submission of
evaluation reports to IDA.
Status of Procurement Preparation
Bidding documents or RFPs have not yet been prepared. Once the PIU is established and the PIU Advisor and
Procurement Specialist are recruited, these documents would be prepared and submitted to IDA for review. In the
meantime, draft TORs for the PIU Advisor, the BDC Network Management Consultant, the Civil Servants
Training Consultants, and the Business Regulatory Environment Consultants have been prepared.  The
Government has also prepared the draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) and has submitted it to IDA for
publication in the Development Business. The GPN will be published in the July 31 issue.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB           Other'         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                               0.00              0.05           0.12          0.00          0.17
(0.00)           (0.05)         (0.12)         (0.00)       (0.17)
2. Goods                               0.19              0.04           0.09           0.00         0.32
(0. 1 9)         (0.03)         (0.08)         (0.00)       (0.30)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00           1.97           0.00         1.97
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.97)         (0.00)       (1.97)
4. Loans to SMEs                       0.00              0.00           4.44           0.00         4.44
(0.00)           (0.00)         (4.00)         (0.00)       (4.00)
5. Grants for Market                   0.00              0.00           1.00           0.00         1.00
- 51 -



Rehabilitation                              (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.00)          (0.00)         (1.00)
6. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00              0.06            0.07           0.13
(0.00)             (0.00)            (0.06)          (0.00)         (0.06)
Total                                    0.19                0.09             7.68             0.07           8.03
i  _________________________               (0.19)              (0.08)            (7.23)          (0.00)         (7.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingecicies.
2I Tncludes loans provided by CGD, good to be procured through international and national shopping,
consultants' services, grants for market rehabilitation, and incremental operating and maintenance costs
related to managing the project.
- 52 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS      SFB     LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms                1.06    0.30     0.40    0.03      0.00     0.00    0.00      1.79
(1.06)   (0.30)   (0.40)  (0.03)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (1.79)
B. Individuals          0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.18    0.00      0.18
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.18)   (0.00)    (0. 1 8)
Total  1.06     0.30     0.40    0.03     0.00     0.18     0.00      1.97
( (1.06)   (0.30)   (0.40)  (0.03)   (0.00)   (0.18)  (0.00)    (1.97)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 53 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Given that the establishment of a new PIU whose capacity cannot be determined until implementation starts, that
overall procurement risk assessment is high, and that East Timor is currently operating in an inherited business
culture which may not be conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes, the prior review thresholds
adopted for SEP 11 will be lower than normal.
Goods: IDA will carry out prior review all contracts under ICB and NCB, and the first two contracts each under
IS and NS procedures. All other contracts, including works contacts awarded for market rehabilitation and BDC
maintenance, will be subject to selective post-review by IDA. Stich selective post-review of contracts below the
tlhresholds will be carried out for approximately up to twenty percent of the contracts awarded.
Services: IDA's prior review will be required for all services' contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more for firms. For individual consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more,
the quLalifications, experience, tenns of reference (TOR) and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furmislhed to IDA for its prior review. In addition, IDA's prior review will be required for TORs of all contracts
irrespective of contract price.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                      Contracts Subject to
Threshold                 Procurement                 Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$ thousands)                 Method                   (US$ millions)
1. Works                             10.0                        NCB                         0.05
2. Goods                             40.0                        ICB                         0.1 9
40.0                       NCB                          0.04
First two                      IS                         0.03
First two                     NS                          0.02
3. Services- Firms                   50.0                       QCBS                         0.83
50.0                       QBS                          0.30
50.0                        SFB                         0.40
4. Services -                        25.0                     Individuals                    0.08
Individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$1.94 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four- months (includes special
procuremenit super-vision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 54 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Grant would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs)
Withdrawal Applications will be supported by Statements of Expenditures for: (i) sub-loans; (ii) contracts for
individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts for consulting firms
estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent; (iv) contracts for goods estimated to cost lcss than US
$100,000 equivalent; (v) grants for market rehabilitation; and (vi) incremental operating costs.
Special Account
To facilitate Grant disbursement, two separate dollar Special Accounts would be established  linder terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. This would include appropriate protection against set off, seizure and attachments.
The Special Accounts would cover the IDA share of eligible expenditures. CGD shall maintain and operate the
Special Account for the line of credit component (Category I), whereas the PIU will maintain and operate the other
Special Account for the remaining components. The CGD Special Account would have an authorized allocation of
US$800,000. The PIU Special Account would have an authorized allocation of US$600,000. Applications to
replenish the Special Accounts should be submitted on a monthly basis or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20
percent of the initial deposits, whichever comes first.  The Special Accounts will be audited annually by
independent auditors under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements under the Market Rehabilitation component of the project will not be permitted until a project
manual for the Market Rehabilitation component, acceptable to IDA, has been adopted in accordance to Schedule 4
of the Grant Agreement and until the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, acceptable to IDA.
has been adopted by UNTAET.
Financial Management, Accounting and Reporting Arrangements.
Financial Management Assessment
A financial management assessment of the SEP I project was carried out by a Bank-certified
Financial Management Specialist. The objective of the assessment was to determine the effectiveness of the
financial management of the SEP I and agree on financial management arrangements for SEP 11, includinig any
improvements required to meet with the minimum requirements of OB/BP 10.02.
The implementation arrangements for SEP I were that Banco National Ultramarino (CGD) was to be
responsible for the line of credit component and the Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the
Govemment's  Division of Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism was to be responsible for non-lendinig
components of the Project and overall project coordination. A financial management funlctioni was also to be
established in the PMU.
PMU financial management function was never established and the non-lending components of SEP I
were not folly implemented. As a result, there is no financial management capacity to assess in the PMU. PMU
also played a weak role in overseeing the overall financial management of the Project due to lack of expertise.
Under SEP I, CGD was responsible for maintaining IDA Special Account, disbursement of sub-loans
financed under the line of credit and maintaining separate project accounts. CGD has a computerized loan
accounting system for recording sub-loan disbursements, interest and other charges and repayments by
sub-borrowers. IDA funded sub-loans are separately identified within the loan accounting system. CGD currently
produces reports detailing loan commitments, disbursement, repayment and other related management
information.
The annual financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2000 was prcpared by CGD and was
audited by Ernst & Young, independent auditors appointed by the Government. The draft audit report expressed a
- 55 -



qualified opinion due to internal control weaknesses observed by the auditors. These are listed in a draft
management letter and summarized below:
*   Provision for doubtful debts insufficient as not all loans were being spent for business purposes and business
conditions in a number of districts were uneconomic.
*   There is a significant time lag between when the loans are approved and when the loan disbursements are actually
made.
*   The financial statements do not include a "Statement of Significant Accounting Policies" note.
*   Security underlying loans may not be enforceable due lack of laws in East Timor.
*   Operating expenditure disbursed are not included in the grant agreement.
*   Several administrative deficiencies relating employee contracts and wage payments.
*   Detailed budgetary information by Project Activity not prepared.
The loan processing and accounting arrangements of SEP I are considered generally satisfactory and
several of the above issues are already being addressed by CGD. The financial management action plan agreed for
SEP 11 will address some of the above issues which are under CGD control.
Proposed Project Management Organization
SEP [I will be managed by a project implementation unit (PIU) to be established within the
Department of Economic Affairs within the Division of Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism. PIU will be
staffed with a Project Manager, Financial Specialist, Procurement Specialist and other staff. In addition, short-term
international consultants will support the PIU staff during the first year of project implementation. PIU will have
direct responsibility for the implementation of the PSD capacity building and Market Rehabilitation components of
the Project. It will also oversee the implementation of the SME line of credit component by CGD. This
arrangement will strengthen the ownership of the Project by ETTA and the PIU which was weak during SEP I and
led to several inadequacies in the internal control environment. The responsibilities of the PIU and CGD with
regard to the implementation of the SME line of credit clearly defined and documented in a project agreement
between PIU and CGD. A draft agreement acceptable to IDA will be agreed at negotiations and signing of'the
agreement will be a condition of grant effrctiveness.
Financial ManagementArrangemnents.
The overall financial management of the Project will be the responsibility of the PIU. In order to carry
out its responsibilities, PIU shall establish a Financial Management Unit (FMU) within the PIU and appoint a
Financial Management Specialist and a sufficient number of supporting staff to carry out the financial
management function. In addition, PIU shall recruit a consultant with intemational experience on terms of
reference acceptable to IDA to assist PIU to establish a financial management system and train staff. The
consultant shall be appointed for a period not less than one year and the appointment of thie consulltant will be a
condition of'grant effectiveness.
The responsibilities of the FMU will include management of the Special Account, authorization and
disbursement of funds for the non-lending components of the Project, preparation of periodic and annual project
financial statements, overseeing the implementation of the SME line of credit in accordance with the project
agreement with CGD and dealing with IDA on all project financial and disbursement issues. FMU's financial
management responsibilities will cover management of expenditures for the Business Development Centers,
rehabilitating of markets and technical assistance costs. As these would require both investment and operating
expenses, the FMU will be required to document the financial procedures and responsibilities in a Project Financial
Management Manual acceptable to IDA. The approval of tlhefinancial managemnent manual by IDA will be a
condition of 'grant disbursement.
The primary responsibility for the financial management of the SME line of credit will be the
responsibility of CGD. In order to address the concerns and recommendations made by the independent auditors,
CGD will be required to develop policies and procedures to improve the internal control environment. These
policies and procedures would include:
- 56 -



Clear guidelines and internal checks and balances to ensure that loan appraisals are carried out in
accordance with agreed lending criteria to minimize risk of financing non viable loans.
*          Loan disbursement procedures adequately safeguard against use of loan funds for non business
purposes.
*          Clear procedures to review  loan commitments and disbursement to avoid delays in loan
disbursements.
-          Clearly defined responsibilities for loan collection and management reporting of delayed payments
and/or defaults.
*          Measures to minimize risks from lack of adequate collateral.
Guidelines for planning, budgeting and reporting on SME related activities financed by IDA.
CGD will be required to submit an action plan acceptable to IDA to address the above issces as a condition of
effiectiveness.
CGD will be responsible for the management of the SA established for the SME component and all
accounting and financial reporting related to loan disbursement, repayment and revenue and expenditures relating
to loan operations. CGD will appoint sufficient staff to be responsible for loan processing, collection, accounting
and reporting with due regard to maintaining segregation of duties. CGD will be required to prepare periodic and
annual financial statements relating to the SME component and submit it to PIU for consolidation and reporting to
ETTA and IDA.
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The accounting and financial reporting of the project will be responsibility of the PIU. PIU will
establish separate project accounting system acceptable to IDA to record all financial transactions relating to
non-lending components of the Project. PIU shall ensure that financial statements relating to the SME component
is sent regularly in order that consolidated financial statements for the Project can be prepared. PIU will also be
responsible for preparing consolidated annual project financial statements for audit. An establishrment ofja project
accounting system acceptable to IDA will be condition ofgrant disbursement.
Audit.
An independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will be appointed by UNTAET to audit the accounts
within 6 montbs of the end of the fiscal year. The first audit will cover the period from grant effectiveness to
December 31, 2001. The auditor will be appointed on terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be
required to express separate opinions on the project financial statements, withdrawals based on statement of
expenditures and the operation of the SA.
Project Management Reports (PMR)
The simplified PMRs to be submitted to IDA shall include at a minimum, the following documents:
Report I-A Project Uses and Sources of Funds
Report 1-B Uses of Funds by Project Activity
Report 2 A Sub-Loan Performance Indicator Report.
Report 2 B Output Monitoring Report - Non-Lending
Report 3-A Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
Report 3-B Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultant Services)
Report 3-C Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
Report 3-D Contract Expenditure Report (Consultant Services)
The PIU will submit these reports to IDA on a quarterly basis within 45 days of the quarter end starting the first
quarter following project first disbursement. Reports IA and 2A for the lending component will be prepared by
CGD and submitted to PIU for inclusion in the quarterly reports to IDA. Additional output monitoring reports will
be developed, if appropriate, during implementation.
- 57 -



Action Plan for Financial Management
Issue/Problem in SEP              Remedial Action for SEP II      Responsible   Due Date
Party
1. Project Organization: weak PIU    Establish a new PIU and appoint  UNTAET     By Project
adversely affected SEP            international consultant                       effectiveness
implementation
2. Lack of defined roles between    Enter into a credit implementation  UNTAET/    By Project
PMU and CGD affected SEP        agreemnent between PIU and CGD   CGD           effectiveness
implemnentation
3. Internal control weaknesses at    CGD action plan acceptable to  CGD        By Project
CGD reported by auditor         IDA to address audit issues.                   effectiveness
4. Systems and procedures for   Prepare Project Financial       UNTAET         By Project
financial management not        Management Manual and                          disbursement
established for PMU             establish accounting system
5. Delayed arrangement for      Appoint external auditor        UNTAET         3 months prior to
independent auditing under SEP                                                 close of fiscal
year
6. Lack of regular project      Prepare agreed Project          UNTAET         First month
management reports from         Management Reports                             following
UNTAET                                                                   .    effectiveness
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
1. Loans to SMEs                             4.00               90% of loan amount disbursed
2. Sub-grants for Market Rehabilitation      1.00            100% of Sub-grant amount disbursed
3. Goods for BDCs                            0.35           100% of foreign expenditLres, 100% of
local expenditLres (ex-factoly costs), and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
4. Civil Works for BDCs                      0.15                          100%
5. PIU Operating Costs, including            0.05                          100%
Audits
6. Consultants' Services and Training        1.60                          100%
7. Unallocated (except for Categories 1      0.35
&2)
Total                                        7.50
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            9
First Bank mission (identification)              09/20/2000                    10/08/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      01/23/2001                   01/23/2001
Negotiations                                     06/15/2001                   07/30/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/15/2001                    10/01/2001
Prepared by:
Desiree Green (World Bank Team Leader), Craig Wilson, Nurul Alain
Preparation assistance:
UNTAET, Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Desiree Green                      Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Craig Wilson                       Economist
Loup Brefort                       Senior Manager, Private Sector Development Unit
Karin Nordlander                   Lead Cotmsel
Numil Alam                         Senior Procurement Specialist
Dominic Phung                      Senior Disbursement Officer
Wijaya Wickrema                    Senior Financial Management Specialist
Stuart Bell                        Senior Private Sector Development Specialist
Katie S. Shaw                      Program Assistant
Irina Astrakhan                    SME Specialist
Thyra Riley                        Lead Financial Sector Specialist
Lily Hale                          Senior Financial Operations Officer
Robert Scouller                    Project Specialist
Christian Mulamula                 Young Professional
Marilene Montemayor                Program Assistant
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
I)     Project Implementation Plan.
2)     SEP Project Manual: Caixa Geral de Dep6sitos Administration of Line of Credit.
3)     SEP Project Manual: Operation of Business Development Centers.
4)     SEP Project Manual: Market Rehabilitation and Maintenance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoires for SEP 1: July 5. 2000; October 30, 2000; February 26, 2001: and, June 30, 2001.
C. Other
Documents in the project file include:
I )    Appraisal of Financial Entities in East Timor [Banco Nacional Ultramarino (nlow Caixa Geral de
Dep6sitos), Opportunity International. Timor Aid]
2)     Correspondence with ANZ Bank
3)     Correspondence with UNTAET
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P072461        2001 East Timor Capacity Building                         0.00       0.00       0.50        0.00       0.00       0.40       0.00       0.00
P072356        2001 TP-SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT                      0.00       0.00        8.50       0 00       0.00       7.50       0.00       0.00
P070533        2000 PROJECT                                              0.00       0.00        6.80       0.00       0.00       2.89       2.87       0.00
P070294        2000 AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT                   0,00       0.00       12.70       0.00       0.00      10.61       4.80       0.00
P070283        2000 TP-Health Sector Rehab. & Dev. Project               0.00       0.00       4.85        0.00       0 00       1.25       4.25       0.00
P070268        2000 TP- Small Enterprises Project Phase I                0.00       0.00      13.90        0.00       0 00       5.10       0.00       0.00
P069762        2000 TP-Emergency School Readiness Project                0.00       0.00      21.00        0.00       0 00       1 20       2.75       0.00
TP-COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
Total:        0.00        0.00      68.25     0.00        0.00       28.95       14.67       0.00
EAST TIMOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                     Disbursed
IFC                                          IFC
FY Approval                Company                                    Loan    Equity        Quasi       Partic      Loan    Equity         Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                   0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitnent
FY Approval               Company                                        Loan        Equity         Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
EAST TIMOR: Second Small Enterprises Project
Since there is no Country at a Glance available, below is background infomiation on East lTimor.
Overview
East Timor consists of the eastern part of the island of Timor, which is part of the Lesser Sunda chain of islands in
the eastem part of the Indonesian archipelago, and also includes the small island of Jaco on its eastern tip, the
larger island of Atauro to the north, and the enclave of Oecussi which is on the West Timor mainland. East Timor
was a Portuguese trading post and colony for almost 500 years until it was annexed by Indonesia in 1975/76 after
Portugal withdrew in 1974 following political change in Lisbon.
The Indonesian annexation was never popularly accepted in East Timor or abroad. There was fighting between
opposing East Timorese factions and a persistent military and political resistance movement by various East
Timorese groups which was never successfully quelled by Jakarta. Following incessant pressure over a long
period, in January 1999 Indonesian President Habibie approved the holding of a referendum on autonomy to be
held in August 1999. The vote rejected the proposed autonomy package thus foreshadowing independence. There
was resultant widespread destruction and violence wrought by military forces opposed to this change.  An
international peacekeeping force led by Australia restored peace following its arrival on 20 September 1999. The
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) was established in October 1999 and a UN
military force assumed peacekeeping responsibilities from  February 2000.  An intemational relief and
reconstruction effort is underway, led by the United Nations, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
Transition to self-rule is tentatively scheduled for late 2001 or early 2002. The UN mandate provides that
Indonesian law holds until new laws are promulgated by the UN or legislated by a new East Timorese govemment.
The Economy
Although the economy of East Timor was growing strongly up to the time of the 1999 popular ballot, the effects of
the post-referendum violence reduced annual GDP by around 40 percent. High unemployment and high and
variable inflation followed. By November 2000, the macroeconomic situation had stabilized. GDP growth
forecasts by the IMF for 2001 and 2002 are 15 percent per annum. UNTAET has since estimated GDP growth
during FY 2000-2001 to have reached 50 percent. Inflation was high but not accurately measured during FY
1999-2000. UNTAET price index estimates have recorded deflation of 5.5 percent in the I I months to May in FY
2000-2001. High but not overwhelming levels of underemployment continue although actual true unemployment
seems to be quite low. Strong market and wage distortions are emerging, largely due to the demand shock
generated by the large international presence. Long-term private sector investment is lagging although there has
been considerable short-term investment servicing the needs of the intemational agencies.  Economic policy
formulation capacity is weak. Sound fiscal management pre-conditions have been instituted. The US dollar has
been adopted as the national currency, and although its usage is not widespread outside of the capital UNTAET is
currently seeking to introduce more stringent requirements to promote the use of the US dollar. The beginnings of
a tax system are in place (income, wage and sales tax, excise and customs duties). Most government revenue is
received through donor financial support. Tax revenues are increasing, but slowly. Production of Timor Gap gas
will enrich East Timor to an as yet undetermined extent but official revenue flows are most likely to be highly
significant. The credit sector is especially under-serviced and undeveloped. The current account deficit is
exceedingly poor (forecast to reach 55 percent of GDP in early 2001), largely due to imports of reconstruction
goods and services.
85 percent of the approximately 800,000 people in East Timor work in agriculture-related occupations. Coffee is
the largest cash crop and export product.  Annual exports of coffee were worth around $25m before the
referendum, but combining the effects of the destruction of agricultural and other infrastructure and declining
world coffee prices, exports were only valued at around $5m in the year to March 2001.
- 62 -



The Role of the Private Sector
A vibrant private sector, coincident with a productive agriculture sector, has been repeatedly identified as the key
precursor of a viable independent East Timor. This was first identified by the UN/World Bank JAM in
October/November 1999. It was accepted as being an appropriate conclusion in the TSS of 3 November 2000
which wrote that, "as the stimulus provided by reconstruction expenditures inevitably declines continued growth
will be dependent upon private sector expansion..." and that "...private sector recovery... (is) key to the reduction of
poverty and social recovery." The IMF cautioned at the December 2000 Brussels donors' meeting that "we must
not lose sight of the broader objective of ensuring that the right environment is created to enable the private sector
to become the engine of growth" and that "only a favorable and sustained domestic supply response by the private
sector will permit East Timor to address effectively problems of unemployment and poverty while reducing, and
eventually phasing out, its reliance on foreign grants." The joint UN/World Bank report to the Brussels meeting
reported that "the absence of a successful private sector will... lead to political and social pressures."  These
sentiments were reiterated at the June 2001 Canberra donors' meeting.
Corollary
Given this background and identified need, SEP II's focus will be on private sector development.  Some
components offer a direct stimulus such as the employment generation accruing from market rehabilitation while
also providing longer term benefits such as improved market facilities. Other components focus more on capacity
building. The four BDCs, and the BDS offered through them and through other intermediaries, will produce a
sustainable positive impact on the capacity of the private sector. The lending component is expected to have a
strong multiplier effect on the money base and employment levels, as well as to help restore a self-functioning
credit system. Likewise, the capacity building for the desk-level public sector PSD officials is also expected to
build in additional sustainability.
- 63 -



Additional
Annex I I
Completed, Current and Planned Market Rehabilitation in East Timor*
Districts:           Ailca             Ailaro              Bteicaa          Bobonaro          Dili         Ennoca        Kovalima         Lautem           Liquica         Manioito   IMalsfahi              Oc-ussi          Viqacquc
Fall phvcical           Ni,               No                  No                No,             No             No            No              No           Largaly ycs    T,porparily            No              So-oc        No
Iarkct                                                                                                                                                                         ycs
rc,habilitatiol
work filly
coopiectd ?
District          Ba,sic           Paniallv            Ys. Iow-  olt        No             Fist stage     Basicallyro   District       No               Yes               Ycc. JiJte      No               Soore offir       No
iarkcrs         |pa-itteit i                             l-arker                           compictcd      work yet        oarket                                         2000, tit                         sc'cral
already         , repair by                            ractisated                          by ADRA        doic. TEPs  dotic                                              Ietkiig for                      dcctraltized
r,lhabiliala]d    Pont toal                            -56000                              (JICA)         has looked                                                      tOw sit,                         osorkots
Saib-district     Nil              Nit                 L'SAID Ias           No             Nil            No             No            No               Yes               Nit             Nit              A fcw             No
arrkcts                                             lttds tor
ircl,adv                                               sulb-distncts
rchabilitated    r
Maii apetteics   ADlA-LUNDP   Titmor Ait anrd    USAID                     USAID antd   ADRA             TEPs,          [OM  and      TEPs              UNHCR,           UNHC'R ad   USAID                 UNH('R, IRC,  Nil
s,ork ig  Ilirs   |                t SAID                                  Ostao                          LNDP           TEPs                           TEPs stud         ADRA,                            IOM,
visited,                                      Peace Wind       TEPs, ETSA                        UNTAET
ADRA
MNItte0y spp-tti                                       S 14.000            Nil             S1,000,000    Nil                          2?                 524,00           .,              Ni        I                        Nil
R1ihabilitatioti    ADRA plots    Ycs. for once of    Rcetcsstion  of       Relhab ofall  Secottd         All districts   ?            Thc distnct      Electricity atid  Lalcia          Th-rc is a       Ililits tor       Basic work oni
wirk pla,,ned    wsrk Dit           I thrcc            Bosicant district     istrict tnd    stagc         atnd sub-                     narket ticeds   walls for the     ltb-distrtct   phiat  itt       Ocsi lo d id      all sitb-
Liqltid-c        slt-dListrics t ark,t                   siti- district   waitttg for    districts                   a lot ofwork.   stalls it rhe     by U NI ICR.   rchtabilitatitg    PaLssahe           istricts
silislitdict    (Hatt-1,6licoi)                          iarkets       JICA             tcd work                   Sob-districts     oarkets          L acblilar by    distrie,        litricts
pla,tcd        feasibiitsy                                 also.                              TEPs             starket
study
%lolitY           s20.000                              S 13.000(USAID)   012,000           More-thait    Nil            .?             ?                S24,000           S13,O0iSt       S350,(01(        S13,000
allocatwd                                              S130,000            already         Sl,000,000
(ADRA)              spctnt tt
Malianta
nmarkct
M:trkc,t          I'ec thre-       District itark,t    Work ilt Veittilalc  All rchab      Maitagc-       Full work      Especially    Market           Additiontal      Thrce itthir    All wsrk         Allowit hltf of   All -ork
tcl,hbilit,tte" ititvitg           wl-tier :           1s it iI Vcomassc  sork it all   tt-tt of         rcqaired ii   the sub-       matnagemcnit    sork stich it5   sst-tiitrict tt-edcd               the tarkets       teedesd
stilts           s..lt-dtsrricts   sttintitoit        atih-districis       sub-           tnarket        all markcts    districts                       clectrificationm                                   teed failI
teed sstrk      isestist etc                             districts      operatioss                                                    wals - snd                                         rehaittlitattoti
attd stall                                                   sstitatior
Icases
Other market    Todil: ficiliis  SoItte baste          ltIitrt-cawtt of   Nil             Ilttr-market  ADRA             As abo-c    The large          Nil               UNHC'R to       As tibt-is       As ab-os          As aiose
s,ppor stork      tacdtd           .issisraite  tront    oarkct stalls                    tra-lspor.      pla.is wo-k                  district mnarket                   stllt it )aerly
plalitied                           ticerts                                                electricity    woth                         outside of                         2(1D I
S50,000 it                   capital                            L:dcii,
district
capital
C:ttttttii-ts     Wortk In Aile,,   Cottsidcrabie      Th old -aret it   Etipitasis        There are      Nil            Nil           A lot ofbasic    As those          Maiket           Wsirk           Nil               Market
klistrict tst stan   -tiarkererchab  Baticou ite,ds      oll             natty                                       works ticeded                      llctri,i tily   ,tvtplscd fle                       -orkers tally
March 2001       sork to do         work.                i-id,iatals    smaller                                                                         slttly tIVt Stitt  utd                             esigagcd
sttcht as      ,iarkets it                                                                    r.sitittitty     Fsttlsterlii
toilets etc    Dili area,                                                                                      sb- distriete
Total dollar-     520,0(1)         S)14.080            514,(tOt)           S,070           Sl,200,000    Nil             X20,000       7                 S24.000          ADRA qitit,,  Nil                 1                Nil
already spcttt                                                                                                                                                            cf 55C,(100
or idocatlcl-_
Total SEP11       SIt60,00          55)0,1100          )130,000            S70,000         S 185,000      S 100,000      $65.000       $100,000          $40,000          560,00()        570.()010        S50,000           570,000
dttlla,s
a Data collected v ia a stitvey dhi stibeltech itn November/Decembeo- 210(0 to all UNTAET District Offices and key agencies itivolverh iIt matket r-eliabilitatiots.
- 64 -



Additional
Annex 12
Business Development Center Network
Chart of BDC Organization, Objectives and Functions
BDC Network Coordination Center and
Dili BDC
National BDC Network Coordinator
Deputy Coordinator/Accountant
BDC Manager and Staff
BDC                    BDC                   BDC
Baucau                sobonaro               Oecussi
Business Offices: Aileu, Ainaro, Ermera, Kovalima, Lautem, Liquica, Manatuto,
BDC Staffing':                              BDC Objectives:                                BDC Functions:
BDC Manager                                -   to improve East Timorese business           Bosiness Development Services
Technical Consultanit                           capacity by providing a range of BDS       Information center
Secretary                                  -   to generate private sector-driven new       Training for small businesses:
Resident trainers                               employmilent througih a focus on new                -   basic businiess skills
ventures                                            -   women in business
BDC Technical Eguipment:                   -   to facilitate business activity and                  -   bisiniess and the
Mobile phone, television                        informatiois exchange by providing                       environmenit
Fax machiine, radio, projector                  basic communications facilities                     -   financial management
Photocopier. screenis                      -   to strengthsen local business               Businiess association support
Computer, generator                             associations aind cooperatives             Market cooperative traininig
Printer                                                                                    Communicatiolss facilities
Camera. VCR, scanner                                                                       Sector and industry promotion
Notes:
- BDC: Each BDC buildiig is allocated by UNTAET under a "public use" lease. Each building will be rehabilitated by SEP I specifically as
a platforn for delivery of BDS uinder SEP 11. Each builditig will be retumned to governmeit possession at the end of the life of SEP 11. Each
BDC will provide services to subordinate SEP 1111 Btisiness Offices anid, in particular, replication training for stibsequent private provision of
BDS in BDC aiid subordiniate districts.
- A Business Office will be established in those nine districts without a BDC. Each BDC will care for three or four noln-BDC districts. In
many cases it will be housed withiis the office of a resideint NGO and will consist of a small space, perhaps enough for two desks and an
interview room. A Businiess Office will provide a working space for visiting BDC staff and a liaison point for local business people. It will
also be used to provide traininig to third-party NGO representatives to deliver SEP 1/11 extension services.
- 65 -



Additional
Annex 13
Small Enterprises Project 11
Project Implementation UnK
Organizatbnal Chart
. . ...... ......
._ . ,...  . ..............
PIU Advisor
(Procurement)
(Project Management)
(Skils T,ansfer) 
Finance Spedialist                 Business                     Procurement          _          tlitmtWb   Aide
(Office Administration)              Specialist                     Specialist
(Financial Management)         (PSD Capacity-building)            (Contract Mgmt)
(Line of Credit)          (Market Rehabilitation)             (Procurement)
SHADED BOX = GOVERNMENT STAFF; OTHER BOXES = SEP-FINANCED CONSULTANTS
The project will finance the following:
FINANCE SPECIALIST (ET CONSULTANT): 26-month assignment Responsible for office administration (i.e. disbursement appgcations, bookkeeping);
PIU tasks under SME Une of Credit component (supervsion of BNU implementation, mnitornng, evatuation and reporting).
BUSINESS SPECIALIST (ET CONSULTANT): 26-month assignment Responsible for PIU tasks under PSD Capacity-building and Market Rehabilitation
components (suplervision ot implementabon, monitoring, evaluaton and reporting).
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST (ET CONSULTANT): 26-month assignment. Responsible for procurenent processing and contract management under
the proect.
PIU ADVISER (INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANT): 12 staff months, staggered over lie of the project. Responsible for providing management
consufting, financdal and procurement services and maximum skills transfer to East Timorese staff.
In addition, Translator(s) (CONSULTANT, PART-TIME) will be contracted on as-needed to translate documents to and from English, Bahasa Indonesian,
Portuguese.
ENVIRONMENT ADVISOR: To be on call to consult on environment issues.
- 66 -



IBRD 30626R
7, PA ChFIC            ISW12300o  ....                                             12A-00'                        12k300                        1271WR
_)OCEAN                                                                                          Strait of Wer
SULAWESI  '    ~    -   )  <           r                                                     4
8-! ff f4nu                    Ai Alor Island
INDONESIA                                     ( At  X  . Ir   ) INDONESIA) -,t2.
. EAST TIMOR A- N
*ov<ea  F..Fr_AiSo-"'X';; f-.:  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
A US5 T R A L I A                                                                                                                 --t
S a vuti   Sea e a                                                                                                                if
M.,
Qecss,S~ 2?                            L         aolS/
OeCUAL   M-
,      NiA.er  OS Slo'b ,~ |                 /  }            \>      / - 2 * 3s*f  :1  0 I   ;! ,i      T; i i  f lr    S e a
r\fe-                            _tlfn;W            -t        | / 0I1 o' oNn
_  (INDONESIA) \         --.K
,24'30    /       '                           It3;30, 0'00'
EAST TIMOR                                                                             EAST
0  5  10 15 20 25 30 KILOMETERS
0    S    10   15   20MILES                                             MAIN ROADS                      ELEVATIONS:
    AIRPORTS                            2000 METERS AND ABOVE
a SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES         1500 2000 MRTRRS
Th,  pw , -d ced lyh1 Msp D-, U, ol Th Wolds o-k                     hB   NATIONAL CAPITAL                    1000 1500METERS
The b-ud.,;,oosdoom:r  ndoyee   h mio  hw
., fhismpbo ip d. e-p-p,FTh. W-Id nk G-opM                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                 500- 000 METERS
F.,rpPance of soch bounderms PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                               0 500 METERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
JULY 2001



