Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF050153
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Second Small Enterprises Project)
between
 EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated October 29, 2001
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
RANT NUMBER TF050153           
 TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 2001, between EAST TIMOR, as administered by the 
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of 
the Trust Fund for East Timor.
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. IDA99-5 
of the Executive Directors of the Association, as amended by Resolutions No. 99-8/1 and No. 
IDA99-5/1, the Executive Directors established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist 
in the emergency reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the 
Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) establishing a United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for an initial period until January 
31, 2001, whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a structure as set out in part IV of the Report 
of the Secretary-General dated October 4, 1999, and whereas the mandate period for UNTAET 
was, pursuant to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1338 (2001) of January 31, 
2001, extended until January 31, 2002; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance from 
the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Caixa Geral de Depositos, S.A., 
(CGD) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to CGD part of the proceeds of the Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Trustee and CGD (the CGD Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements” of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000 (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, solely on account of and as a direct 
result of the physical implementation of the activities under the Project, had or would have their: 
(i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
Page  3
adversely affected; and “Affected Person” means individually all those who qualify as Affected 
Persons;
(b)
“BNU Timor” means BNU Timor-Caixa Geral de Depositos, S.A. Branch, a 
branch of CGD in East Timor and means the Project implementation entity for Part A of the 
Project for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
(c)
“Borrower” means an entity responsible for, or a joint venture of entities jointly 
and severally responsible for, the carrying out of a SME Sub-project under Part A of the Project;
(d)
“Business Development Center” means a center established by the Recipient in 
the cities of Baucau, Dili and Maliana, and in the district of Oecussi to provide business related 
technical services to small- and medium-sized enterprises;
(e)
“CGD Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Trustee and CGD 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the CGD Project Agreement;
(f)
 “CGD Project Manual” means the manual to assist CGD in the implementation 
of Part A of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Recipient and the Trustee;
(g)
 “Credit Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and CGD pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules to the Credit Implementation 
Agreement;
(h)
 “Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending 
June 30;
(i)
“Grantee” means a person or entity responsible for, and persons or a joint 
venture of entities jointly and severally responsible for, the carrying out of a Market 
Rehabilitation Sub-project under Part C of the Project;
(j)
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Framework 
adopted by the Recipient for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance to Affected Persons, as such Framework may be amended from time to time with the 
prior agreement of the Trustee;
(k)
“Loan” means a loan made by CGD to a Borrower for a SME Sub-project under 
Part A of the Project to be funded up to 90% out of the proceeds of the Grant made available by 
the Recipient to CGD, pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the CGD Project Agreement;
(l)
“Market Rehabilitation Project Manual” means the manual to assist the Project 
Implementation Unit in the implementation of Part C of the Project, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(m)
“Market Rehabilitation Sub-project” means a specific investment project carried 
out by a Grantee under Part C of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant;
Page  4
(n)
“Market Rehabilitation Sub-project Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and a Grantee for purposes of a Sub-grant;
(o)
“Project Implementation Unit” means the unit within the Recipient’s Division of 
Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism, or any successor thereto in charge of industry, 
responsible for the coordination and monitoring of Project activities and means the Project 
implementation entity for Parts B, C and D of the Project for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) 
and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; 
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to measure 
the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(r)
“SME Sub-project” means a specific small- or medium-sized enterprise 
investment project carried out by a Borrower under Part A of the Project and utilizing the 
proceeds of a Loan;
(s)
 “Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(t)
 “Statutes” means the statutes of CGD, dated August 20, 1993, and as amended 
on May 31, 2000; and 
(u)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the proceeds 
of the Grant to a Grantee for a Market Rehabilitation Sub-project under Part C of the Project 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount equal to seven 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($7,500,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this Agreement 
except to the extent it shall have received funds for this purpose pursuant to the Resolutions 
referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of a Loan under Part A of the 
Project or a Sub-grant under Part C of the Project, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for a SME Sub-project or a Market Rehabilitation Sub-project, 
respectively, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; and 
(ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  5
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts B and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of each of Part A and Parts B, C and D of 
the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the Trustee 
shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B, C and D of 
the Project through the Recipient’s Division of Industry, Mineral Resources and Tourism, or 
through any successor thereto responsible for industry, and shall cause CGD to carry out Part A 
of the Project through BNU Timor, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, environmental, financial and social practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall cause CGD to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
CGD Project Agreement all of the obligations of CGD therein set forth, shall, in accordance with 
the Project, take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CGD to perform its obligations 
under Part A of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except 
as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out Parts B, C 
and D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to 
Category 1 in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to CGD under a 
Credit Implementation Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and CGD, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Trustee.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Page  6
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to the 
Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan to ensure the continued achievement 
of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient and the Trustee hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 8.03, 8.04, 8.05, 8.06, 8.07 and 8.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by CGD pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the CGD Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Trustee, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Trustee, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Trustee may from time to time reasonably request.
Page  7
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Trustee for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than October 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Trustee, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
Page  8
furnish to the Trustee not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
CGD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CGD Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Grant Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CGD will be 
able to perform its obligations under the CGD Project Agreement.
(c)
The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of CGD or its ability 
to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the CGD Project Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CGD or for the suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement:
(a)
that the CGD Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CGD, and 
is legally binding upon CGD in accordance with its terms; 
(b)
that the Credit Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Recipient and CGD;
(c)
that an action plan for the financial management of the Project, acceptable to the 
Trustee, has been adopted; 
(d)
that the Project Implementation Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(e)
that the CGD Project Manual, acceptable to the Recipient and the Trustee, has 
Page  9
been issued.
Section 6.02. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Grant 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the Trustee dispatches to the Recipient 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective, the Trustee may postpone the 
dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section until such event or events shall 
have ceased to exist.
Section 6.03. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for 
the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United Nations 
Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o Cabinet Officer for Economic Affairs
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889463901
61-889463902
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  10
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
  INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
  Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dili, as of 
the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
      IN EAST TIMOR
By      
/s/
Dennis McNamara
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
       as Trustee for the Trust Fund for East Timor
By      
/s/
Sarah F. Cliffe
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  11
Category
Dollars)______
to be Financed
(1) Loans under Part A
4,000,000
90% of Loan amount 
of the Project
disbursed
(2)  Sub-grants under Part C
1,000,000
100% of Sub-grant
of the Project
amount disbursed
(3) Goods under Part B of the
350,000
100% of foreign 
Project (including local
expenditures, 100% of 
transportation to site)
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(4) Civil works under Part B.1 (d)
150,000
100%
      of the Project
(5) Incremental operating costs
60,000
100%
(6)
Consultants’
1,600,000
100%
services and training
under Parts B, C and D of
the Project
(7) Unallocated (except for
340,000
       Categories (1) and (2))
TOTAL
7,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of East Timor for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of East Timor; provided, however, that for purposes of this definition, the 
Dollar shall be deemed the currency of a country other than that of East Timor;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures other than foreign 
expenditures; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs”
 
means reasonable expenditures incurred 
by the Recipient for bank charges and Project auditing costs, and Project Implementation Unit 
communications and consumables, and staff travel and per diem, but excluding staff salaries 
(which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project).  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
under the Grant in respect of:
Page  12
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category 2 until (i) the Market 
Rehabilitation Project Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted in accordance with 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted by the Recipient. 
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Loans;  (b) Sub-grants; (c) goods under 
Category (3) costing less than $40,000 equivalent per contract; (d) works under Category (4) 
costing less than $10,000; (e) incremental operating costs; (f) training under Category (6); and (f) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each and 
contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $25,000 equivalent each all under 
such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the Grant 
Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the 
Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the 
Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts to accelerate economic 
growth through the generation of employment and the improvement of the competitiveness of 
small- and medium-sized enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:  Loans for Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises
Financing of specific investment projects through the provision of Loans to small- and 
medium-sized private enterprises.
Part B:  Private Sector Development Capacity Building 
1.
Business Development Services
(a)
Provision of technical services by Business Development Centers, to: (i) 
potential Loan applicants in the preparation of SME Sub-project proposals; (ii) Borrowers in the 
carrying out of SME Sub-projects; and (iii) rejected Loan applicants in the preparation of revised 
or new SME Sub-project proposals.
(b)
Carrying out of relevant training programs for business associations and 
market-based associations.
(c)
Carrying out of a train-the-trainer program in business skills and training 
Page  13
techniques for selected East Timorese trainers.
(d)
Carrying out of maintenance works and provision of furniture and equipment to 
Business Development Centers.
2.
Civil Servant Training on Private Sector Development
Carrying out of workshops and training in private sector development theory and practice 
for East Timorese civil servants of the Recipient’s Department of Economic Affairs.
3.
Business Regulatory Environment
Provision of technical assistance to the Recipient in the development of a business 
enabling environment, including preparation of drafts of proposed commercial legislation and 
policies. 
Part C:  Market Rehabilitation
Financing of the rehabilitation of selected marketplace facilities at the district and 
sub-district level through the provision of Sub-grants to Grantees.
Part D:  Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit in coordinating and 
monitoring the Project, through the provision of technical assistance.
* * *   
 The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Trustee in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Page  14
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $40,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Furniture estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $40,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or 
more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
International Shopping
Video and audio-visual equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $35,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Office equipment and communications equipment estimated to cost less than $15,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $85,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works required for Part B.1 (d) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
Page  15
contract successfully.
5.
Community Participation
Works required for Part C of the Project and estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $35,000 equivalent for each 
Market Rehabilitation Sub-project, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Trustee.
Part D
: Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$40,000 or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 of this Section, and the first two contracts for 
goods to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.3 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  16
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Trustee in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part B.1 (b) and (c) of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Project auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
Page  17
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Trustee for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 (a) and 2 (b) of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under Part C.2 of 
Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement shall be those set forth in the Regulation on Public 
Procurement for Civil Administration in East Timor (UNTAET Regulation No. 2000/10 of 
March 6, 2000) (the Regulation) with the following clarifications required for compliance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.3 of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” (the Guidelines) published by the Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999:
1.
The procuring entity shall procure goods in accordance with Section 5.1 of the 
Regulation. The exceptions provided in Section 5 shall not be valid for National Competitive 
Bidding procedures. 
2.
Section 9.1 shall be modified to provide for advertisement in the national press. Bidders 
shall have not less than 30 days from the date of availability of bidding documents or 
advertisement in the press, whichever is later, to prepare their bids.
3.
Section 14.3 (g) shall be modified to read “the criteria to be used in evaluating proposals 
and their relative weight, shall be expressed in monetary terms.”
Page  18
4.
Under Section 15.6 the procuring entity may request extension of the bid validity period, 
but suppliers shall not be required to extend such date, after bid submission.
5.
Under Section 16 the bid security shall be set in such a way as to not unduly deter 
bidders from participating in the bidding process. 
6.
Section 18.4 shall not apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Project Implementation Unit responsible for the coordination and monitoring of Project 
activities, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate resources and staffed by qualified 
and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, including:
(a)
a Head;
(b)
a Project advisor;
(c)
a finance specialist;
(d)
a business development specialist; and
(e)
a procurement specialist.
2.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project the Recipient shall cause the operator of the 
Business Development Centers to establish by not later than March 31, 2002, a fee schedule, 
acceptable to the Trustee, for the provision of services, such fees to be used solely to cover 
operational expenditures of the Business Development Centers.
3.
The Recipient shall carry out Part B.1 (b) and (c) and B.2 of the Project in accordance 
with a training program acceptable to the Trustee.
4.
In carrying out Part C of the Project the Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter, apply in the 
implementation of Part C of the Project, the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual, acceptable to 
the Trustee, which shall include the description of: (i) the criteria for the selection of Market 
Rehabilitation Sub-projects and the terms and conditions of Sub-grants set forth in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and standard procurement documentation, (iii) the environmental criteria applicable 
to Market Rehabilitation Sub-project design including environmental impact mitigation, (iv) 
implementation arrangements; (v) maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under a 
Market Rehabilitation Sub-project, (vi) reporting requirements, financial management procedures 
and audit procedures as set forth in Article IV of this Agreement, and (vii) the Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Policy Framework.
5.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that:
Page  19
(a)
each Market Rehabilitation Sub-project proposed under Part C of the Project 
shall be a public marketplace facilities rehabilitation project which is technically, financially, 
environmentally and socially viable, and economically justified by the number of people 
benefiting from it; 
(b)
the estimated cost of a proposed Market Rehabilitation Sub-project shall not be 
more than  $25,000; 
(c)
a Market Rehabilitation Sub-project Agreement shall be entered into between the 
Head of the Project Implementation Unit and the Grantee, on terms and conditions set forth in 
the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual; and
(d)
prior to the carrying out of works under a Market Rehabilitation Sub-project, a 
technical review by the Deputy District Administrator, or the Deputy’s designee, shall have been 
completed of such Market Rehabilitation Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:
(i)
the criteria described in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph have been 
complied with;
(ii)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Market Rehabilitation Sub-project in 
accordance with the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual;
(iii)
the requirements of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework have been complied with, and, if applicable, appropriate compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation arrangements have been completed and are satisfactory to 
the Affected Persons as set forth under the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework and paragraph 6 of this Schedule;
(iv)
a Market Rehabilitation Sub-project Agreement has been entered into 
and an implementation plan for the Market Rehabilitation Sub-project has been prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of the Market Rehabilitation Project Manual; and
(v)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Market 
Rehabilitation Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the 
Trustee and has been included in the Market Rehabilitation Sub-project Agreement, 
which shall include assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective 
community and the identification of available sources of financing to carry out such 
programs.
6.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of persons and 
Page  20
to avoid the displacement of said persons;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 
unavoidable, ensure that the Recipient shall, before carrying out the works which would result in 
such acquisition or displacement, make available to Affected Persons, compensation and 
rehabilitation measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework; and
(c)
in the event that there are two hundred or more Affected Persons:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such plan to the Trustee for 
approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected Persons shall 
have been compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
7.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to the 
Trustee, on or about  October 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by November 1, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators 
INDICATOR
Mid-term
Completion 
Date
Number of new jobs directly created
>800
>1,600
Number of new loans approved
>120
>200
Average value of new loans approved
$23,000
$23,000
Loan performance rate
>95%
>90%
Number of new enterprises created
>100
>160
Page  21
Number of female loan recipients
>10%
>10%
Percentage of new jobs filled by women
>20%
>20%
Number of different Business Development Services 
delivered
>20
>25
Number of trainers trained and/or employed under the 
Project
>25
>30
Number of entrepreneurs and small business people trained 
under the Project
>1,000
>2,000
Number of new/improved private sector providers of 
business development services
>10
>15
Number of business regulatory initiatives supported by 
relevant technical assistance
>5
>10
Number of markets rehabilitated under the Project
>40
>40
Number of public sector officials handling private sector 
development policy trained under the Project
>25
>40
Page  22
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part A of the Project and Categories 
(2) through (6) set forth in said table in respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $800,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project (CGD Special Account) and an amount 
equivalent to $700,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts B, C and D thereof (PIU 
Special Account), to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
Page  23
request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  24
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Trustee 
shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Trustee into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule 
shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
