                                Document of
                              The World Bank

                                                     Report No: ICR0000566




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (MULT-50153)




                                  ON A

                                  GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.5 MILLION


                                 TO THE

                   DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                  FOR A

                     SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT




                                June 8, 2008




EASFP
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            FISCAL YEAR 2007/08

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
BDC      Business Development Center
BDS      Business Development Services
BGDP     Business Government Dialogue Promotion
BNU      Banco Nacional Ultramarino
BRE      Business Regulatory Environment
CTF      Country Trust Fund
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ETC      Extended Term Consultant
EOZ      Economic Opportunity Zone
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FETL     Business Forum Timor-Leste
GTZ-IS   German Agency for Development Co-operation ­ International Services
IADE     Institute of Entrepreneurship Development Support
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced People
IEPA     Investment and Export Promotion Agency (became TITL)
ILO      International Labor Organization
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LICUS    Low Income Country Under Stress
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDE      Ministry of Development and Environment (became MED)
MED      Ministry of Economy and Development
MMC      Market Management Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PREM     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
PSD      Private Sector Development
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SEP I    Small Enterprises Project
SEP II   Second Small Enterprises Project
SEZ      Special Economic Zone
SME      Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises
STAGE    Skills Training for Gainful Employment
TA       Technical Assistance
TFET     Trust Fund for East Timor
TITL     Trade Invest Timor-Leste
TTL      Task Team Leader (of the World Bank)
UNTAET   United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor

       Vice President: James Adams
    Country Director: Nigel Roberts
      Sector Director: Vikram Nehru
     Sector Manager: Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
Project Team Leader: Enrique Aldaz-Carroll
   ICR Team Leader: Enrique Aldaz-Carroll

                                         TIMOR-LESTE
                   SECOND SMALL ENTERPRISES PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 35
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on IDA's Draft ICR.......... 39
 Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 42
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
 Annex 8. Explanation of Performance Ratings ............................................................ 44
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Second Small
Country:                Timor-Leste            Project Name:
                                                                      Enterprises Project
Project ID:             P072654                L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-50153
ICR Date:               07/06/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      RECIPIENT: EAST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      TIMOR
Original Total
                        USD 7.5M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 7.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
PIU
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/17/2001     Effectiveness:                          03/27/2002
Appraisal:             01/23/2001     Restructuring(s):                       06/22/2004
Approval:              09/28/2001     Mid-term Review:     05/23/2005         05/23/2005
                                      Closing:             06/30/2004         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Moderately
                                                                      Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   5                55
General industry and trade sector                                  15                30
Micro- and SME finance                                             67
Other domestic and international trade                             13                15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary         Primary
Other financial and private sector development                    Primary         Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                Secondary        Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                               Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Nigel Roberts                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Tunc Tahsin Uyanik                  Javed Hamid
Project Team Leader:       Enrique Aldaz-Carroll               Desiree Green
ICR Team Leader:           Enrique Aldaz-Carroll
ICR Primary Author:        Annabella Skof
                           Enrique Aldaz-Carroll



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objectives of the project were to generate employment, accelerate economic
growth, and improve SME competitiveness, through providing an SME line of credit,



                                                 ii

capacity building focused on Private Sector Development (PSD), and rehabilitation of
market infrastructure.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The main objectives of the project are to generate employment, accelerate economic
growth, improve SME competitiveness, build capacity with the focus on Private Sector
Development, and rehabilitate market infrastructure.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval            Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Local employment created by BDC supported businesses, new FDI and market
                place construction
Value                                                         920
quantitative or 0                        1,600 jobs           annualized     5,890 projected

Qualitative)                                                  jobs           annualized jobs

Date achieved 09/28/2001                 09/29/2001           06/22/2004     12/31/2007

Comments        Target (actual) values:

(incl. %        Employment created by BDC support 400 (428)

achievement)    Employment created by new FDI: 400 (5,111 projected)
                Employment created by Market Place construction 120 (351)
Indicator 2 :   Number of entrepreneurs and small business people trained by the BDCs
Value
quantitative or 0                        2,000                1,000          3,931
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                 09/29/2001           06/22/2004     08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Number of public sector officials receiving PSD policy training
Value
quantitative or 0                        40                   60             65
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                 09/29/2001           06/22/2004     05/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %        changed for the second group of trainees, see text.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Number of Enterprises receiving BDC support that have increased their capital or
                staff
Value
quantitative or 0                        N/A                  140            90
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                 09/29/2001           06/22/2004     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %



                                              iii

achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Number of markets rehabilitated or constructed
Value
quantitative or 0                         40                 71          70
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                  09/29/2001         06/01/2006   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Value of new inward FDI investment realized
Value
quantitative or 0                         N/A                $2 million   $128 million

Qualitative)                                                              projected

Date achieved 09/28/2001                  09/29/2001         06/22/2004   06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Number of business regulatory initiative supported by TA
Value
quantitative or 0                         10                 8           10
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                  09/29/2001         06/22/2004   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   Number of business forums completed
Value
quantitative or 0                         N/A                4            4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                  09/29/2001         06/22/2004   06/08/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :   Number of trainers trained
Value
quantitative or 0                         30                 33          55
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                  09/29/2001         06/22/2004   08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 :  Female and youth percentages of trainees and of employment. Percentage of
                women in Market Management Committees
                                                             Female       Female trainees
Value                                                        trainees 40% 45%
quantitative or N/A                       N/A                Female       Female
Qualitative)                                                 employment   employment 50%
                                                             40%          Female MMC share



                                              iv

                                                          Female MMC 45.5%
                                                          share 50%      Youth trainees 60%
                                                          Youth trainees Youth employment
                                                          60%            48%
                                                          Youth
                                                          employment
                                                          60%
Date achieved 09/28/2001                09/29/2001        06/22/2004     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Trainee and employment data are based on a non-random sample.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                            approval         Revised      Completion or
                                           documents)     Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  N/A
Value
(quantitative  N/A                      N/A               N/A           N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/28/2001                09/29/2001        06/22/2004     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                        IP              Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/28/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.50
  3     11/27/2002        Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    1.50
  4     05/29/2003        Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    1.50
  5     10/30/2003        Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    1.59
  6     10/31/2003        Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    1.59
  7     02/11/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.15
  8     06/21/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.41
  9     12/01/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     2.37
  10    06/09/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     3.23
  11    12/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                     3.81
  12    06/19/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory                     4.98
  13    06/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 6.27
  14    11/01/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 6.70




                                            v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                   Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                     The line of credit was not

  06/22/2004        N       S      S          1.41   started due to the high number
                                                     of non-performing loans under
                                                     SEP I




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal (January, 2001)

Until the restoration of independence in May 2002, the United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) was administering the country.

Private and Financial Sector. At the time of Appraisal, economic growth was estimated
at 15% in 2001-2002 (IMF), and forecasted at 5% to 15% in 2002-2003 (UNTAET). In
2000, underemployment and unemployment was about 80%, while 85% of the population
was occupied to some extent with agriculture. Long-term private sector investments were
limited, while savings were at a reasonable level. A formal credit system was not yet
functioning beyond nascent microfinance programs, a microfinance project supported by
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the line of credit under the IDA-assisted first Small
Enterprises Project (SEP I) and the Australia New Zealand Bank (ANZ) had started
operations in Dili. Despite rehabilitation efforts, many essential services were unavailable
and infrastructure remained debilitated. These factors constrained private sector activity
and the development of rural areas.

Private sector development was low to non-existent. Business services were not available
and business regulations were in the draft stage. Government staff were unaware of
private sector issues and there was no formal private/public dialogue. There was no
government agency to guide and assist foreign investment.

Bank's Rationale for Involvement. The main rationale for Bank involvement was the
need to develop a vibrant private sector and a productive agriculture sector, as key
precursors of a viable independent Timor-Leste. Adequate banking and credit facilities in
the near-term depended on support provided in SEP I and proposed in SEP II. While
microfinance was being supported by ADB, SMEs would rely on SEP II's lending. The
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), approved in November 2000, had emphasized the
promotion of private sector recovery and called for "an exceptional package of support
for training and credit" for Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SME), especially to
rural areas.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Project development objective:

The main objectives of the project as described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
were to generate employment, accelerate economic growth, and improve SME
competitiveness, through providing an SME line of credit, capacity building focused on
Private Sector Development (PSD), and rehabilitation of market [place] infrastructure.
The PDO was expressed in the legal documents in a much abbreviated, high level and
self-evident form: "to accelerate economic growth", with a set of 14 indicators.



                                              1

Key performance indicators (from 2001 Grant Agreement):

 Indicator                                                                                     Target

 1. Number of new jobs directly created                                                         >1,600
 2. Number of new loans approved*                                                                >200
 3. Average value of new loans approved*                                                       $23,000
 4. Loan performance rate*                                                                      >90%
 5. Number of new enterprises created*                                                           >160
 6. Number of female loan recipients*                                                           >10%
 7. Percentage of new jobs filled by women                                                      >20%
 8. Number of different Business Development Services delivered*                                 >25
 9. Number of trainers trained and/or employed                                                   >30
 10. Number of entrepreneurs and small business people trained                                  >2,000
 11. Number of new/improved private sector providers of business                                 >15
     development services
 12. Number of business regulatory initiatives supported by relevant                             >10
     technical assistance
 13. Number of markets rehabilitated                                                             >40
 14. Number of public sector officials handling private sector                                   >40
     development policy trained
*The asterisked indicators were no longer applicable after the line of credit was dropped ­ see below.

The PDO and key indicators show that the main benefits were to come from direct
private investment through the line of credit, which would stimulate employment and
economic growth. A high multiplier effect on the country's economy was expected.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

By late 2003 it had become clear that the line of credit component could not be activated
due to the high number of non-performing loans under SEP I (a cross condition). In any
case, the Bank had concluded that the rationale for the SEP II credit line, unsatisfied
SME demand for credit, no longer applied given other available funds. The PDO in the
legal document did not have to be formally changed, despite the cancellation of the line
of credit, since it was so abbreviated. However, the objectives were in effect expanded to
include PSD capacity building and rehabilitation of market infrastructure, as reflected in
the last ISR (in the PAD these last two objectives were means of achieving the original
PDO, but now became secondary objectives in their own right). With restructuring in
mid-2004 the project's main focus moved from private sector investment to institutional
development, mainly capacity and system development to support future investment and
growth, with public investment in market places continuing.

So for practical purposes the revised objectives of the project became to:


                                                    2

                (i) generate employment;
                (ii) accelerate economic growth;
                (iii) improve SME competitiveness;
                (iv) build PSD capacity; and
                (v) rehabilitate market infrastructure.

The construction of new markets (which was added at restructuring) was not explicitly
captured by the extended PDO.

The key indicators were changed markedly at restructuring. Five indicators linked to the
line of credit and one other were dropped (as noted in the table above). Eleven indicators
for expanded or new components were added, raising the total to 18 (Amending Grant
Agreement of June 22, 2004). The revised indicators have been regrouped to match the
objectives (as set out in 3.2 below, to avoid repetition): (i) Job Creation (including
temporary construction jobs), (ii) Private Sector Development through institution
building, and (iii) Market Place Development. The output rather than outcome emphasis
of the original indicators remained.

The employment indicators were designed to show jobs created by SEP II through
business training, public works and FDI. Other indicators reflected social concerns ­
female and youth training, and female Market Management Committee (MMC)
membership. These indicators have a clear output/outcome linkage. However, other
indicators have weak output/outcome linkages, such as the number of markets
rehabilitated or constructed, the number of business regulatory initiatives, or the number
of forums held.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Development of the private sector by SEP II was designed as in SEP I to benefit a large
cross-section of the community, but beyond the urban communities and district centers
where SEP I was focused. SMEs and micro-enterprises were the beneficiaries of the
credit line and Business Development Services (BDS), and public and private staff were
to benefit from training. The beneficiaries of the market rehabilitation component were
widespread, including the general public using the markets. Women and youth were to
benefit from targeted services and training.

1.5 Original Components

1. SME Line of Credit - $4.0m. The line of credit was to offer loans ranging from
$1,000 to $50,000 on commercial terms to SMEs, with $2.0 million earmarked for agri-
business.

2. PSD Capacity-building - $2.24m

    A. Business Development Services - $1.84m. Services targeted to both existing and
        potential SEP I and SEP II borrowers, and more generally in districts around Dili,




                                              3

        with a consulting firm providing training. Four Business Development Centers
        (BDCs) established under SEP I and II were to provide the services.

    B. Civil Servant Training ­ $0.15m. Training in PSD theory and practice for 15­30
        civil servants.

    C. Business/Regulatory Environment - $ 0.25m. Development of a business
        enabling environment through consulting services to the Department of Economic
        Affairs.

3. Market Rehabilitation - $1.0m. Grants to the 13 districts of Timor-Leste for market
    rehabilitation, based on proposals from community-based market management
    groups, and with capacity building training for market cooperatives under the BDS
    component.

4. PIU Technical Assistance - $0.26m. Consultant services, training, audit services and
    incremental operating costs.

1.6 Revised Components

Despite the loss of the key credit activity, the revised project embraced a wider set of
activities towards creating institutions and increasing capacity in support of expansion of
private sector business. At restructuring, the following were the IDA allocations and new
activities to use the $4.0 million of credit funds no longer required (original IDA amounts
in parenthesis and additional activities are underlined).

1. Private Sector Development - $3.315m. ($2.24m)

    A. Business Development Services ­ $2.44m. ($1.84m)                      Five  Business
        Development Centers (BDCs) established under SEP I and II to provide services
        targeted to both existing and potential SEP I and SEP II borrowers, and more
        generally in districts around Dili, with a consulting firm providing training.
        (Addition of a fifth Business Development Center located in Maubisse.)

    B. Business/Regulatory Environment - $0.55m. ($0.25m) Development of a
        business enabling environment and improving the legal and regulatory
        environment for business, through consulting services to the Department of
        Economic Affairs.

    C. Business-Government Dialogue Promotion ­ $0.175. To foster better and more
        regular consultation on the business environment between the private and public
        sectors.

    D. Civil Service Training - $0.15. ($0.15m) Training in PSD theory and practice for
        15­30 civil servants.


2. Market Place Development - $1.69m. ($1.0m) Grants to the 13 districts of Timor-
    Leste for market rehabilitation, base on proposals from community-based market



                                               4

    management groups, and with capacity building training for market cooperatives
    under the BDS component. Construction of new markets and market infrastructure
    where appropriate, based on demand from the districts.

3. Investment and Export Promotion Agency and Economic Opportunity Zone -
    $0.98

    A. Investment and Export Promotion Agency - $0.8. To create an Investment and
         Export Promotion Agency (IEPA), later renamed TradeInvest Timor-Leste
         (TITL).

    B. Economic Opportunity Zone Preparation- $0.18. Technical assistance to begin
         feasibility work on creating an economic opportunity zone.

4. Project Implementation Unit - $1.2m. ($0.26) Consultant services, training, audit
services and incremental operating costs. Increased funding to implement the expanded
activities.

1.7 Other significant changes

The credit closing date was extended twice by a total of 42 months, in the second
instance mostly due to delays in the market place and business dialogue components.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

SEP II had similar implementation problems to SEP I, partly due to avoidable design
flaws in not adequately taking into account lessons learned from SEP I and other
operations. The lessons included limited implementation capacity, procedural and
training deficiencies, and considerable sub-loan disbursement delays. Specific design
weaknesses were:

    (i) insufficient knowledge of the local financial market and projected credit demand
         and supply;

    (ii) given SEP I's credit line problems at the time, weak justification for allocating as
         much as half of the funds to a further credit line;

    (iii) inadequate preparation of the business environment component resulted in under
         funding;

    (iv) preparation of the market component omitted a needs assessment to establish
         rehabilitation priorities and costs;

    (v) implementation capability was known to be low but was not strengthened
         adequately in the PIU design; and




                                              5

    (vi) the project indicators, the Project Implementation Plan and M&E plan focused on
          outputs rather than outcomes, giving implementation management a quantitative
          rather than qualitative emphasis.

The credit component was designed without thorough study of the financial market in
Timor-Leste. Linking activation of SEP II's credit line to satisfactory performance of
SEP I credit was logical, but the severity of SEP I's credit problems were underestimated
or not understood well enough. It was risky to allocate over half of project funds to credit
despite poor experience with such operations and the risk that the credit component
would not be activated. (A missed signal on the depth of the problem may have been the
difficulty of coming to an agreement with a financial institution to implement the SEP II
line of credit.)

Insufficient resources were provided - especially for three components: Business
Regulatory         Environment,           Business-Government              Dialogue        and     Market        Place
Development. Costs were underestimated for the Business Regulatory Environment
component given the high cost of international lawyers and consultants and the time-
consuming process of drafting, discussing, revising and promulgating legal texts. The
market place development component targeted 74 markets, but the funds allocated
allowed investments of only $130,000 per market, whereas some key markets in the
major urban areas needed significantly more investment. This problem can be traced back
to the lack of a needs assessment during preparation, but which was not clearly addressed
by the Bank's Mid-term Review (MTR) and not sufficiently followed up afterwards.

The weak capacity of the PIU and of management were not clearly identified and
corrected.1 Since the PIU was not expected to have the capacity to supervise all activities,
it was implicitly assumed, inappropriately, that this would be done by the Bank's Task
Team. Consultants and firms were provided to implement various components, but not
TA to build capacity in the PIU, which had only three regular staff members. Initially
only $260,000 was earmarked for the PIU's work. Also, it was not recognized that the
Government did not have capability to review output by international consultants
working on business environment matters.

Stakeholders were involved during the design and appraisal period of SEP II. The design
of the market development component also included community participation processes
which were expected to be followed on important decisions such as which markets to
rehabilitate (and later on, the location of new markets).2 However, design of the business


1PIU management consisted of a Director, who was the respective Minister of Economy and Development of each
Government, and a Project Manager. The Manager was to take care of the day to day running of the project and the
Director was to take key decisions. In practice some Ministers were very involved weakening the Manager's position
and slowing down decision making due to their busy agendas.

2The absence of needs assessments prior to market rehabilitation and construction, allowed political influence to play
an undue role in at least four of the smaller markets (for instance, the Vemasse market was built more than 10 km away
from the center of the village against advice of the PIU and remains unused). The Task Team issued an objection to the
construction of one of the large markets because the decision on its location had been taken without consulting the
community.



                                                             6

regulatory environment component was not adequately participatory, and the eventual
participatory process to determine work priorities was not foreseen.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review quality-at-entry, but the above
points indicate that the project began with some troublesome design flaws and known but
unmitigated risks.

2.2 Implementation

(i) Factors outside the control of the government or implementing agencies

SEP II was implemented during difficult times of unsettled country circumstances, with
weak or negative economic growth. The poor performance of SEP I's credit portfolio had
decisive negative impacts on SEP II's implementation performance and outcome.

There were socio-political upheavals in most years when the security situation
constrained implementation in some districts. Attempts were made to undermine project
contracts and impede construction.3 Supplies of standard building materials such as
roofing iron and cement were intermittent for the whole period. The disturbances of 2006
caused special problems, with the economy undermined, and Government paralyzed­
although the PIU handled the crisis well. The private sector suffered especially when
normal economic activity all but ceased during the peak of the crisis from May to
October 2006.

Over the six-year project period (September, 2001 to December, 2007) economic growth
averaged only 0.5% per annum and varied widely, with explosive growth during the
UNTAET years (1999-2002) but then three years of negative growth during the project's
critical middle years.

By the end of 2003, 21 months after SEP II became effective, the credit component had
to be dropped because SEP I's credit operation had not met the agreed target for
activating the second credit line (80 percent performing loans). Also the Task Team had
concluded (prematurely) that adequate alternative funds were available to SMEs from
other sources. Implementation was further affected by the lengthy efforts by the
Government and BNU to solve the SEP I credit problem, which diverted needed support
early on from lagging SEP II components.

(ii) Factors subject to government control

Government had some control over the following factors which affected implementation:

     (a) wavering commitment to the project's objectives with changes of government;




3Timor-Leste has been ranked 178th in the world for contract enforcement (Doing Business, 2008). PIU staff were
obliged on many occasions to use moral suasion to make progress on works as formal contract enforcement remains
problematic throughout the country.




                                                         7

     (b) weak government and PIU implementation capacity which was only partially
          corrected during implementation;
     (c) dropping the credit component led to SME expansion being constrained by lack of
          access to available alternative sources of credit;
     (d) restructuring increased recognized implementation capacity problems;
     (e) weak public/private consultation; and
     (f) political pressures undermining project priorities.

In addition, the Borrower's mid-term review attributed initial delays to lack of clear
direction from the PIU; shortages of PIU staff, transport and office equipment; and lack
of a permanent Task Team member in the Dili office. The budget for the PIU was
increased after restructuring and a part time consultant position in Dili was created since
the beginning of 2005.

The first constitutional Government's commitment to the Business-Government Dialogue
Promotion was weak but the Task Team's efforts kept the component active. Subsequent
Governments were highly committed to this component leading to positive results.

The Business Regulatory Environment and Economic Opportunity Zone components
were hampered by the Government's limited capacity to review the output of
international consultants, so feedback was delayed or absent. Similarly, follow-up on the
Government's side on the recommendations agreed in National Forums was weak. After
restructuring, a full time consultant was hired and worked closely with the PIU, the then
Ministry of Development and Environment4, and the Ministry of Justice, to manage
public consultations.

Some activities were used for political ends or were subject to political pressure,
particularly market location and the dialogue forums. The markets component originally
was to rehabilitate 60 markets, with 14 new markets added at restructuring. While the
rehabilitation needs of well-used markets was clear-cut, choosing new market places, in
the absence of technical needs assessments, allowed political influence to play an undue
role. The locations of at least four of the smaller markets were chosen on the basis of
political rather than economic grounds.5 Under the Business-Government Dialogue
Promotion component, several regional forums were held, but these were used for
political campaigning rather than for public-private dialogue, so were replaced with
National Forums.

It was apparent later that restructuring misjudged the extent to which the banks would
serve SMEs, replacing IDA funding. There was poor understanding of local banking
constraints: inadequate infrastructure, property title uncertainties, and the lack of a
securities law. While micro-credit needs and larger enterprises are served, SME credit



4Now the Ministry for Economy and Development.
5 Vemasse market was built, against PIU advice, more than 10 km away from the village and remains unused. The
construction of a market at Gleno was cancelled after the Task Team found that the location was isolated, with no
transportation available, and had been selected without community consultation.



                                                          8

remains a critical constraint. Experience with BDC trainees shows that SMEs and
aspiring entrepreneurs lack credit collateral (in the absence of land and property titles and
a legal framework) to satisfy commercial bank requirements.

The restructuring of the Project exacerbated implementation problems since, although the
line of credit was dropped, the number of components and subcomponents increased
from five to eight, of which only three were to be sub-contracted. Thus the selection of
new and dissimilar components required broader skills than the PIU had available. The
PIU's role was significantly increased and the increased market places to be rehabilitated
and constructed required hiring a team of engineers to design and monitor works.


(iii) Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

The weaknesses of the PIU, both management and staff, continued throughout
implementation. Some delays were caused by the PIU's slowness in hiring necessary
staff and in training them. As early as June 2002, financial management and procurement
problems emerged, which took until late 2004 to resolve after international financial and
procurement advisors were hired in early 2003. But other PIU capacity problems
continued to cause delays and led to the second extension of the closing date in 2006 to
allow the completion of several components.

However, the PIU handled periods of social unrest well. The PIU office was protected
from looting and implementation soon resumed. PIU staff continued working despite
personal risks when peace was only marginally restored, and well before the majority of
Government staff returned to work.

The performance of PIU management was generally poor. A salary premium did not
attract better qualified staff. Personnel issues plagued PIU operations. Morale, attendance,
work ethic and timekeeping varied amongst staff, diverting managers from
implementation tasks. Personnel policies were not in place to allow resolution of staff
performance problems. Although the PIU structure was stipulated in the PAD, unclear
reporting lines limited communication within the PIU and weakened the authority of the
Project Manager. High turnover of (six) Project Directors, with different management
styles, increased problems. Proper supervision of the range of activities was beyond the
capacity of the PIU, as the PAD had feared but not ameliorated. The planned alternative,
close supervision by the Task Team, could not fully substitute for PIU weakness. Early
procurement and financial management problems improved with TA appointments in
early 2003. The Market Construction and Rehabilitation Manual, produced by the PIU
and reviewed by IDA, was hardly used since the PIU did not have relevant skills. The
Bank's restructuring memo notes that "a lesson of experience from the early
implementation of SEP II was that the PIU was not adequately equipped or staffed to do
even the relatively limited scope of work initially intended."

The PIU's decision, contrary to plans, not to contract a firm for designing and supervising
works on all large markets posed a significant challenge to the PIU. It was decided
instead to integrate an extended engineering team into the PIU to take over planning,
designing and supervision of all works. However, supervision of construction sights was


                                               9

difficult with all staff based in Dili, as the widely dispersed sites required much traveling.
Procurement in the case of large markets proved cumbersome and slow, creating further
delays. The Task Team hired an engineering expert who reviewed designs and provided
technical advice to the PIU engineers, which improved results.

The PIU's working style added to problems. Instructions were usually given orally so
follow-up was difficult. Poor reporting reduced sharing of experience and management
effectiveness. The Project Manager lacked the necessary authority to effectively manage
staff, and staffing decisions did not always reflect performance. Team discussions were
not held regularly so team building and a common sense of purpose was not achieved
(team meetings ended after civil disturbances began in April-May 2006). IDA's aide
memoirs were not distributed by PIU Management to, or the specifics generally discussed
with, national staff of the PIU, who had to follow up on agreements.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and evaluation was weak and made little contribution to improving project
results. The collection of data was made more difficult by the social unrest since May
2006.

Monitoring of project indicators should provide clear information on the status of
implementation at any time to provide feedback to management (and staff) on progress
towards meeting objectives. Management can then make changes where needed to keep
implementation on track towards achieving the PDO. Unfortunately the PIU did not have
the capacity to monitor all the dispersed and different activities, and the chosen indicators
focused more on outputs than on outcomes. This gave the PIU a quantitative focus, while
neglecting qualitative outcomes. (The focus on outputs was deep seated: the Project
Implementation Plan specified that "the PIU will also be responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of the outputs of SEP II" (page 6), and does not mention any M&E tasks
regarding outcomes.)      6  The indicators were chosen in 2001 and were modified
substantially at restructuring in 2004 (as detailed above). The government reported after
completion that it would have welcomed greater flexibility in the use of indicators; more
discussion and training on how to use the indicators; and assistance to refocus M&E on
outcomes rather than outputs.

The PIU hired an M&E specialist, but unfortunately his skills proved to be limited and
M&E work was restricted to the market component. PIU staff were not trained on M&E
(reminders from the Bank that PIU staff were to receive training were mostly ineffective).




6An example of the quantitative emphasis is that targeting of trainees was not sufficiently
selective, with training of large numbers of people getting priority.



                                                10

Baseline surveys were not specified initially, which constrained progress tracking and
results assessment. In particular, despite Bank urging, the PIU did not conduct baseline
surveys before rehabilitating or building large markets. This omission made it difficult to
assess the impact of these works on market efficiency and estimate benefits. Job creation
and business expansion through BDC training could not be rigorously estimated either
since the BDCs did not properly follow up on the outcome of the training provided.
Instead 130 non-randomly selected trained people were interviewed, and the job creation
and business expansion figures were extrapolated, with attribution issues obscuring the
project's impact.

IDA staff assisted to try to strengthen the PIU's M&E capacity and supported PIU staff in
M&E design and utilization. While GTZ-IS managed the BDCs, M&E was delivering
some results in this component. The IDA social development specialist improved M&E
practices for the market component, in particular in the MMCs. The Task Team made an
assessment of the quality of training and its impact in March 2006 and made
recommendations (primarily to link entrepreneurial training with credit). The Task Team
also designed at that time Rapid Market Usage Assessments and built the PIU's capacity
to conduct these assessment by itself. These assessments were conducted during three
supervision missions jointly by the Task Team and the PIU and contain quantitative and
qualitative information. Market usage assessments were continued in a more limited
fashion by the M&E specialist.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Resettlement: No market rehabilitation (or later, construction of new markets) was to be
undertaken with involuntary resettlement or if land ownership was disputed. However, no
provision was made for the voluntary and temporary resettlement during rehabilitation
work of kiosks and vendors, but the PIU wrote provisions for this into the Market
Construction and Rehabilitation Manual.

The Task Team monitored through the PIU whether there were any cases of permanent
resettlement. None were identified by the PIU. However, in November 2006 it was
found that the rehabilitation of the Lospalos market involved temporary resettlement, for
which the community had already made its own plans. The start of rehabilitation work
was postponed while IDA engaged a social development specialist to help the PIU
develop an adequate resettlement plan. Subsequently the PIU included resettlement plans
where necessary in market proposals.

Environment: The project was classified category "B" because of the potentially adverse
environmental impact of some of the businesses that might be supported. A negative list
was established for the line of credit, for which an independent environmental review was
required before funding. With the PIU responsible for monitoring, environmental
compliance was not specially monitored, and the issue became redundant when the credit
line was dropped.




                                             11

Environmental management plans (EMP) were required for the new markets added at
restructuring, but no special monitoring of compliance was provided. Thus in late 2006 it
was a QAG team that found that there were no EMPs for the new markets places
constructed by the project. An environmental specialist joined the supervision team and
assisted the PIU in drafting environmental standards for all large markets, either
rehabilitated or new ones. Some retrofitting was required. However, the project was slow
to respond and it was some months, after the Bank briefly suspended approval of new
market proposals, before there was agreement on reaching compliance. Since April 2007
the PIU has invested considerable effort in retrofitting and ensuring that agreed
environmental standards were met for all large new markets.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Strong efforts have been made to ensure project benefits continue, but there are some
remaining uncertainties. On request, the Task Team provided the Minister of
Development with its views on continuing activities by component, and on the issues
arising (these were included in the June 2007 Aide Memoir).

1. Private Sector Development

    Business Development Services: In the absence of sufficient training fee income and
    private sector interest (in the struggling economy), the BDCs were incorporated in
    2006 into IADE, the domestic investment agency under the Ministry of Economy and
    Development. Adequate funding of BDC operations is included in the budget. The
    ILO continues to work with the BDCs and provides about 10% of IADE's budget.
    Plans are being made to extend the range of training offered and options for the
    longer term positioning of BDCs are under consideration.

    Although the outcome of the training during most of the project was below
    expectations (as trainees had problems accessing credit for business purposes or
    difficulty finding jobs in a slow economy), training outcomes improved towards the
    end of the component (January-April 2006) with the implementation of ILO's
    STAGE training and the linking by ILO of trainees in the BDCs with micro-financing
    institutions.

    Business Regulatory Environment: The sustainability of reforms and laws
    introduced under SEP II was of such concern that a new legal advisor was provided
    during the last year of the project to review drafts and assist public consultation.
    Despite six of the regulatory initiatives being drafted and promulgated under SEP II,
    much remains to be done (see Annex 2). Government is committed, including to the
    planned revision of investment laws, possibly with IFC assistance. Business
    regulation will be a feature of the future business-government dialogue (see below).

    Business-Government Dialogue Promotion: With Bank assistance, the PIU
    restructured this component to ensure follow-up on the decisions of B-GDP forums.




                                              12

  Following discussions with the Task Team, IFC proposed a follow-up project which
  has recently been approved, thus extending this encouraging activity.

  Civil Service Training: After the first round, this training was incorporated into the
   curricula of the BDCs. Civil service training has been discontinued since the BDCs'
   handover to IADE. Considering the BDCs' low capacity, it seems unlikely that such
   civil service training will be resumed.

2. Market Place Development:

   Market place development is experiencing a pause. The Minister of Economy and
   Development under the new Government decided to establish a Rural Development
   Unit (RDU) which was to take over market place development. This unit was
   transferred to the PIU office in November 2007. However, the budget for 2008 does
   not include development spending for MED given higher priorities such as the
   relocation of Internally Displaced Persons.

   Market maintenance and MMC operations are not assured as user fee collection
   proved impractical in recent economic circumstances. The alternative of government
   funding could be provided through district administrations. Also, MMCs must have
   authority to enforce market rules and follow-up training or BDC refresher courses are
   needed to maintain MMC staff skills. These points have been discussed with
   Government.

3. Investment and Export Promotion Agency and Economic Opportunity Zone

   Investment and Export Promotion Agency: TITL was transferred to the
   Government in August 2007, reporting to the Prime Minister. But under the new
   Government, it was moved to the MED with the intention of merging it with the
   domestic investment section. While this may strengthen both types of investment
   promotion services, it bears risks for TITL. Salary differences are a potential problem.
   Furthermore, TITL's capacity has been reduced by staff losses, down from seven to
   four. Another recognized near term issue is that with a limited budget allocation in
   2008, it is unlikely that TITL can expand or acquire needed technical assistance.

   Economic Opportunity Zone Preparation: The feasibility study to establish a
   Special Economic Zone has been discussed with Government officials on several
   occasions and has been distributed widely to stakeholders. The study was presented to
   the Council of Ministers in November 2007, but no action has yet been taken.

4. Project Implementation Unit

   MED's Rural Development Unit is to replace the PIU, with some PIU staff
   transferring to MED. A potential obstacle could be that the PIU's salaries are
   considerably higher than equivalent civil service salaries. This could affect continuity




                                            13

    of staffing, which is crucial to transferring knowledge to the RDU, especially in the
    procurement, finance and engineering units.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

An explanation of the rating criteria can be found in Annex 10, as requested by the
Government.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) of generating employment,
accelerating economic growth and improving SME competitiveness were highly relevant
to country priorities and Bank assistance strategy at approval and have remained so in
terms of the Government's National Development Plan and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (2006). The two secondary objectives of building PSD capacity and
rehabilitating market infrastructure also remain relevant. However, if viewed as an
objective rather than a means (or input), the relevance of the main design feature of the
original project, the line of credit for SMEs, is debatable. In the absence at that time of a
detailed assessment of SME accessibility to funds for expansion and the demand for such
funds, the component's relevance cannot now be judged. But that discussion became
moot once the credit line was dropped.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

SEP II successfully laid the institutional foundation for further private sector
development. However, it would be overly optimistic to believe that a small project like
SEP II would be able to kick-start the whole private sector in a post-conflict country with
low implementation capacity, and an almost non-existent private sector. Despite these
limitations, the project had some important results, through improved private sector
development capacity, strengthening and building institutions, and employment
generation. The following details support these conclusions.

The first two parts of the PDO (job creation and economic growth) were set more at the
sectoral level than the project level, thereby creating attribution problems with respect to
results and impacts, while no indicators were devised for measuring the third part (SME
competitiveness). Contributions to economic growth, the ultimate objective, are difficult
to isolate in the absence of the direct impact on SME expansion through the abandoned
credit line. Moreover, there are complicating factors, since during implementation the
country experienced negative or low growth and went through socio-political upheavals.
But the project continued to be implemented and substantial results were reported. For
the two objectives promoted at restructuring (PSD capacity and markets), qualitative
judgments can be made using outputs. Thus, since an assessment of achievements
directly against PDOs is not realistic, the achievement of those output targets chosen as
key indicators must suffice.


                                             14

As set out in the following table, of the 18 indicators, 14 were met (78%, of which two
are projected to be met given the strong trend of existing data, and two were close). Five
targets as asterisked were exceeded by multiples. Four indicators were not met, but two
came close (these four were essentially secondary objectives). Expectations for private
provision of business training proved premature.7 See Annex 2 for detailed discussion of
outputs.

Revised Key Indicators and Achievements

                                                       Indicators                     Revised     Final
Project Outputs/Outcomes                        (Original target, if any)             Target     Results   Target met


Job Creation

1. Local employment created by         Number of jobs created ­ annualized              400        428#       Yes
BDC-supported businesses

2. Local employment generated from Number of jobs created ­ annualized                  400       5,111      Yes*
new FDI                                                                                          projected

3. Market Place construction           Number of jobs created ­ annualized              120        351       Yes*

4. Female employment                   Percentage of total (>20%)                       40%       50%#        Yes

5. Youth employment (age 15 to 30) Percentage of total                                  60%       23%#        No


Private Sector Development

6. Develop capacity in the business    Number of entrepreneurs and small business      1,000      3,931      Yes*
community through SME training         people trained (>2,000)

7. Training of trainers                Number of trainers trained/employed (>30)         33         55       Yes*

8. Expand the number and capacity      Number of public sector officials receiving       60         65        Yes
of civil servants trained in PSD       PSD policy training (>40)

9. Increase in new FDI into the        Value of new inward FDI Investment               $2m       $128m      Yes*
country (non-oil and gas)              realized                                                  projected

10. Prepare legislation and decrees    Number of business regulatory initiatives         8          10        Yes
which promote expansion of business supported by TA (>10)
activities & enterprises

11. Create a mechanism to increase     Number of business forums completed (at 2         4           4        Yes
dialogue between business and          per year)
government




7It was expected that BDC operations would prove to be sufficiently commercial that private providers of
business training would soon emerge and Government could then withdraw. This expectation was not
realized, in large measure because trainees cannot currently afford training fees and sponsorship
arrangements have yet to develop.




                                                    15

12. Support for domestic enterprises Number of enterprises with increased capital  140          90#      No
                                      or staff

13. Private provision of business     Number of new private providers of           15            0       No
development services                  business development services (>15)

14. Services/training for females     Percentage of total                         40%          45%       Yes

15. Delivery of services/training to  Percentage of total                         60%          48%       No
youth (age 15 to 30)

Market Place Development

16. Construction of new market        Number of new markets constructed          14 (23)        22       Yes
places

17. Rehab. of existing market places Number of markets rehabilitated (>40)       60 (48)        48       Yes

18. Beneficiary participation and     Percent of women in MMCs                    50%         45.5%      Yes
gender balance in MMCs
* Targets are asterisked when exceeded by multiples
# Values based on non-random sample.
 The targets changed over time to the value inside brackets due to confusions on the difference between
the terms "rehabilitation" and "construction".



The second objective of accelerating economic growth cannot be directly assessed for
the project from available data. Although this is a broad and high level objective, it was
appropriate for a line of credit component for business investment, where achievements
could have been measured by the actual and projected economic and financial
performance of the enterprises supported (using a sample of typical enterprises in the
usual way). But measuring contributions to economic growth became impractical for less
direct investments after the credit line was cancelled. Nonetheless, the type of
investments made suggests that the project has made contributions to economic growth in
terms of generation of employment, increased SME competitiveness and market place
investments.

1) Generation of employment: Results against employment targets are impressive given
that the line of credit for SME expansion was cancelled. However, the translation into
outcomes of some of the employment indicators is difficult to quantify due to monitoring
weaknesses (see discussion in section 2.3 of FDI and training-related employment).

Employment generation was to be achieved through three channels:

(i) Local employment created by BDC-supported businesses by training entrepreneurs is
reported to have reached the target by the time of hand-over to IADE, based on a sample
of people trained, but the impact of the training is disappointing. The number of jobs
created is small relative to the large number of persons trained ­ four times the training
target. Reasons for this are that the training provided was initially too advanced for many
of the largely unscreened trainees, and had to be adjusted to a more basic level, and that




                                                   16

poor access to credit, which the revised Project could not address once the line of credit
had been dropped, restricted business initiatives.8

(ii) Local employment generated from new FDI looks promising if judged by the number
of jobs projected in proposals. Shortly after hand-over to the Government, TITL
estimated that 15,300 jobs would be created over three years (as of November 2006),
increasing to 31,000 by the end of June 2007. However, since TITL does not follow-up
on project results, actual employment generation through FDI is not known. Nevertheless,
it is realistic to assume that substantially more than the target of 400 annualized jobs have
been created.

(iii) Market Place construction created 1,090 short-term jobs, equivalent to 351 years of
full time jobs9 (as of October 31, 2007), almost three times the target of 120 jobs. There
was special emphasis on involving the local community in market construction through
community work.

2) The objective of increasing SME competitiveness was to be achieved through four
activities:

(i) Develop capacity in the business community through SME training (and training
of trainers). The training output targets were mostly met, with an impressive number of
almost 4,000 people trained (four times the target), and 55 trainers trained (cf. the target
of 33).10 Social objectives were also largely achieved: 45% of trainees were women and
48% were youth (targets were 40% and 60% respectively. The target of 15 private
providers of business development services proved unrealistic at this early stage of
business growth.

Business-oriented training provided by the project will have a long term positive impact
on the competitiveness of the national economy, but the impact will not be assessable in
the short term or easily separated from the effect of education and training generally.

A March 2006 review by the Task Team found that the BDCs have made impressive
progress in difficult circumstances during periods of social unrest, despite their
quantitative success not resulting in significant jobs. BDC-type institutions would not
have been established without SEP II support, would not have been established by the
private sector, and the skills of BDC staff are a base from which IADE can progress with
confidence.




8ILO's STAGE program later showed improved impact from entrepreneurial training when it is linked to
access to finance.

9In the case of small markets the duration of construction contracts is three months, while it is 5 months for
large markets.

10Not overlooking that trainees should have been chosen more selectively with respect to their suitability
for such training.


                                                    17

(ii) Develop capacity in government through SME training. Sixty-five civil servants
were trained on private sector development exceeding the target of 60. However, the
training of the last 42 civil servants was of low quality and likely to have had only
marginal impact.11

(iii) Increase foreign direct investment into the country. TITL estimated from
approved proposals that inward investment would total $128.2m as of November 2006,
and $201.2m by June 2007. These proposals compare with the very modest target of $2
million, but it is not known how much of the approved investments actually materialized
or can be directly attributed to the establishment of TITL, because TITL only measures
approvals, not realization. A detailed breakdown of approvals by firm is presented in
Appendix 4 of the November 2006 Aide Memoir. The sectors that have most attracted
foreign investors' interests are tourism, infrastructure, fishery, and agribusiness. Of the
56 proposals approved, ten are outside Dili. About half of the recent 22 proposals are new
investments, and the remaining are for expansion of existing investments. Australia is the
leading source of investment, followed by Singapore, Portugal, Indonesia, and Korea.

(iv) Improve the business environment through business regulatory initiatives and
business-government dialogue. Both targets were met: more than 8 business regulatory
initiatives were supported by technical assistance and 4 national business-government
forums took place. Though only six of the regulatory initiatives were implemented, both
components contributed to a more certain and simpler business regulatory environment.
Business registration was simplified, domestic and foreign investment laws were
reviewed, and there is increased awareness and willingness on Government's part to
consult on draft laws with the private sector and other stakeholders. For example, Timor-
Leste's starting a business ranking in Doing Business improved by 25 positions from
2006 to 2007, which can be partially attributed to project efforts to simplify business
registration (the topic of the 2nd National Forum). Further details are in Annex 2.

3) Improved market infrastructure. The market place component met the revised
targets in aggregate for market infrastructure (except for one market where disputes
halted work). The project flexibly addressed the problems created by destruction of
market places across the country. Sixty-nine markets were rehabilitated or constructed,
accounting for about half of the total number of markets rehabilitated or built in Timor-
Leste since 1999.12 While many already require expansion, these markets have restored
important social and business centers for a significant percentage of the population. The
economic impact of such improvements cannot be measured due to the lack of baseline
surveys. A reservation is that some of the markets may be poorly sited in relation to




11This was another example of the emphasis on quantity of outputs rather than quality of outcomes.
12 The revised targets were 14 new and 60 rehabilitated markets. These figures changed over time due to
confusions over the difference between the terms "rehabilitation" and "construction", and, in some cases,
markets to be rehabilitated were destroyed during unrest, or it was decided to change to another more
desirable location in the same town/village. Four market sub-projects were dropped by agreement for
various practical reasons.


                                                  18

commercial and social needs, for reasons already discussed (see 2.2) which may lower
their impact.

The outcome in terms of market usage is generally positive based on market assessments
carried out by the Task Team. Markets are busy, sometimes overflowing with vendors.
Vendors use provided market facilities and tend to be well organized, particularly in
permanent and major city markets. But, according to PIU information, there are four new
markets not being used (e.g., Loes and Vemasse markets, the latter being too remote).

Market Management Committees were established and trained for every market, with a
female participation rate in MMCs of 45.5%, close to the 50 per cent target. However,
public awareness and authority of MMCs has remained low in the majority of markets
visited by the Task Team.

3.3 Efficiency

Economic and financial analyses were not provided at appraisal and data were
insufficient to carry out such analysis at completion.   However, the project experience
does raise a number of efficiency concerns which suggest that the rush to approval (for
what was a development project, not a relief operation) came at the expense of later
problems and reduced impact:

    (i) The inadequate identification and preparation of the credit component led to
    delays affecting the whole project;
    (ii) The poor understanding or recognition of the great capacity weaknesses led to
    some ad hoc arrangements to achieve implementation;
    (iii) The Bank did not fully commit the supervision resources needed or to staff in
    Dili to support weak local capacity; and
    (iv) The Government and Bank failed to resolve the PIU problems which were the
    cause of many implementation delays.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on reported data it appears that SEP II generally met its employment targets and
contributed to increase private sector competitiveness by improving private sector
development capacity, contributing to business regulatory reform, facilitating foreign
direct investment, and improving trade infrastructure. However, M&E weaknesses cast
doubt on some of the indicators and enhance the problem of attribution of outcomes to
project activities. Taking the above limitations and positive aspects into consideration,
the project outcome assessment is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This qualified
assessment of the project's performance is somewhat mitigated by the overall good
outcomes in terms of institutional strengthening as discussed below.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts




                                            19

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project exceeded the employment target despite the credit line being dropped, and
thus contributed to reducing poverty. But the size of the job-related components and the
targeted number of jobs was small relative to the number of new entrants into the
economy every year. Over the longer run the institutional development and capacity
building achievements should lead to more job creation and hence poverty reduction.

SEP II was to enhance the role of women in private sector development. However, while
overall female participation in MMCs was 45%, participation in decision making is likely
to be much lower, based on Task Team enquiries. This is unfortunate since beneficiaries
of market places are predominantly women. Despite efforts by the PIU, female
participation in MMC training at the BDCs was extremely low, as women were usually
not allowed to leave their families for three-day training courses.

Marketplace rehabilitation/construction was a strong positive, visible message to
communities that the Government was committed to supporting community development.
Marketplaces are important social institutions in Timor-Leste and many were seriously
damaged or destroyed during 1999.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

SEP II's institutional contribution was substantial: its main success is its contribution to
long-term capacity and institutional development of the public and private sectors to
better manage improving private sector competitiveness and the investment climate.

First, it successfully established two crucial institutions for entrepreneurial training and
foreign investment facilitation: the Business Development Centers, and TradeInvest
Timor-Leste. The BDCs are receiving attention from the Government and donor
organizations to expand their activities.

Second, SEP II succeeded in changing Government and private sector attitudes towards a
more engaging and constructive relationship. The business-government dialogue opened
up by the annual forums is a major institutional achievement which will contribute to
further private sector expansion. In cooperation with a USAID private sector
development project, the project created an umbrella organization of small and scattered
business associations, the Business Forum Timor-Leste, which participates in the forums.
The development of working groups has built capacity for the private sector to engage in
a more constructive dialogue with the Government, rather than the previous approach
mainly by way of complaints. This was a major achievement, as quite recently
Government was skeptical but has since backed the strategy and requested continued
donor support.

Third, the training of 23 civil servants by GFA Management has been very well received,
with trainees responding positively on the benefits.




                                             20

Fourth, SEP II contributed to improving the regulatory environment and to increasing the
Government's willingness to consult the private sector on draft laws, although much
more needs to be done to provide a reliable and transparent business regulatory
environment.

Fifth, Market Management Committees have been well trained through SEP II,
significantly increasing their capacity to maintain and manage markets.        However,
assuming that the question of funding of the MMCs is resolved, as mentioned earlier this
training needs to be followed-up.

Finally, SEP II introduced standardized tender documents and bidding criteria to
domestic contractors, with the PIU in effect providing procurement training to the
contractors in their proper use. This increased local contractors' competitiveness on
future bids, as noted already by other Bank-assisted public works projects.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Acceptance of resettlement, when development so required, was an unexpected positive
feature of SEP II, especially for a country where formal land-ownership is unknown and
controversial. Since resettlement was common over the past 30 years, including
involuntary resettlement, when market place development required resettlement
communities were not surprised and were found to be already well organized and
prepared for it, so that it went well.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

While there were no formal beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops, the following
summarizes some key points from discussions with private sector beneficiary groups.

The Task Team met with private sector representatives who participated in the Business
Government Dialogue set up by SEP II. Overall, private sector representatives perceived
the outcome of this component as reasonably successful, with progress from forum to
forum, and as an important contribution to private sector development in establishing
dialogue with Government. The private sector representatives appreciated the need to
develop well-founded recommendations rather than just raise problems with Government.
Private sector representatives noted the need for proper follow-up on their work and that
the private sector has yet to organize to speak with one voice.

The business community expressed its hope that TITL and IADE be merged under the
Ministry of Economy and Development to provide equal treatment to domestic and
foreign investors, while the Bank sees streamlining procedures (through a "one-stop
shop") as of even higher priority.




                                             21

The Task Team also interviewed Market Management Committee members during its
market assessments. Overall, MMC members as well as vendors confirm that
construction works on the markets mark are an improvement. However, in many cases,
the scope of works undertaken was seen as not sufficient to satisfy the needs of all
communities. This shortcoming is recognized and was due to limited funding. MMC
members also complained that they were working on a voluntary basis, leading to lack of
motivation and inactive members. (Funding of MMCs, in order to ensure maintenance of
market facilities, has been discussed with Government staff.)


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is rated as Moderate given the currently low capacity
of the Government and the very limited financial resources of MED to fund development
programs, capital development, or to strengthen established institutions. (The exception is
the Dialogue Promotion and Regulatory Environment sub-components, which will be
further supported by IFC.)      On the positive side, it is expected that the successful
institutional development and capacity building efforts will over the long run lead to
more job creation and hence further poverty reduction.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Unsatisfactory given the failure
to identify implementation capacity problems and to provide for them, especially in the
PIU; not ameliorating the ineffective management and reporting structures which were
evident under SEP I; not carrying out or providing for a needs assessments for the line of
credit and setting unrealistic conditions for activation of this component; not providing
for baseline surveys, and a poorly designed M&E system.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            22

From the beginning, SEP II required heavy supervision by the Bank's Task Team
consuming significantly more time than normal.13 The Borrower's mid-term review
noted that strong support and continuous efforts from IDA have been necessary to bridge
differences with the Government and to reinforce the Government's commitment to the
project activities. Task Team interventions concerned especially helping to build PIU
capacity; bringing the private sector and a legal adviser into work on commercial
regulations; helping to focus and better organize the public/private dialogues so that
actionable proposals resulted, and regularly interacting with other donors on private
sector development.

Nevertheless, there were shortcomings in Bank supervision: (a) management problems
(high staff turnover - creating continuity problems, especially for the Borrower,                       a
constrained Bank budget necessitating frequent application to Trust Funds where
nationality requirements constrained who could be hired, and the lack of adequate in-
country representation); (b) performance indicators should have been upgraded; (c) after
restructuring, some progress ratings were inflated; (d) recognition was slow that BDC-
trained entrepreneurs needed credit (fortunately ILO assistance became available); (e)
PIU capacity problems should have been pursued more vigorously; and (f) delayed
awareness of environmental safeguards issues (although dispersed market sites allowed
only selective oversight).

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the Bank rated supervision over 2005/06 as
Moderately Unsatisfactory. The region objected to the rating given the low capacity of
Government, the restricted Bank budget and that with supervision assistance the two
main components performed satisfactorily.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite strong efforts
by the Task Team during implementation, design flaws at the beginning created
implementation problems which could not be fully overcome.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




13 As reported by the TTLs. The fact that staff weeks for supervision shown in Annex 4 are not especially
high may be attributed to weaknesses in the recording system (no staff weeks are reported in FY05, and
very low values are reported in FY03).




                                                   23

Overall, the four Governments experienced during implementation showed commitment
to project activities and to ensuring progress, but with different emphasis across
components. For example, support for the regulatory and dialogue components was weak
at times. As described in more detail in Annex 2, political considerations sometimes
undermined project priorities and staffing decisions were subjected to political pressures.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The PIU's low capacity to implement and supervise project activities could not be
completely overcome by TA or supervision inputs and assistance. Severe problems in
procurement and financial management in 2002 took the PIU too long to correct. In
addition, as discussed above, the PIU lacked the range of skills to match the demands of
project activities (initially it was just too small); it could not overcome resource shortages
for some components; personnel policy and management issues were not overcome; staff
training did not reach the level needed, and some management policies and practices
were not helpful.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

For the reasons stated above, the overall performance of the borrower was rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The project experience suggest some lessons that the Bank should especially consider for
operations in LICUS countries, as well as lessons specific to this type of project:

A. Lessons for LICUS operations:

       Design

       1.   A flexible design rather than a conventional blueprint design may be
       preferable, as circumstances are most likely to change during implementation
       (including where practical consideration of a "process approach" design).
       2.   A flexible design (or a process approach) mandates especially a carefully
       designed and effective M&E system to provide constant and early feedback
       towards identifying needed implementation adjustments.
       3.   Project design must include adequate inputs to overcome, from the outset,
       low national implementation and supervision capacity (relying on substituting
       "intensive Bank supervision" is risky and raises ownership issues).
       4.   Where institutional development includes the need for new legislation and
       regulations, arrangements must be in place to provide for independent qualified
       reviews of proposals coming out of public-private dialogue, and of draft
       legislation.


                                               24

       5.   Well functioning markets places are essential social and economic
       institutions for the peace and recovery process in fragile post-conflict countries,
       including community management and maintenance.

       World Bank Management

       6.   In-country Bank staff assigned to an operation should be standard practice
       when there are significant local capacity constraints.
       7.   Greater supervision needs in LICUS countries with low national
       implementation capacity should be recognized in supervision budgets.
       8.   When there are safeguard risks (probably more so in LICUS situations),
       an independent monitoring system must be in place if effective routine oversight
       by Bank supervision is impractical.

       Project Management

       9.   Establishment of a project management/implementation unit within the
       Government structure may be unavoidable, without over-concern for enclave
       issues.
       10. Project launch workshops should be standard practice where agencies
       and borrower staff are not familiar with Bank-assisted operations. Workshops
       should lead straight into targeted training of key staff, both to correct for skills
       weaknesses and in the standard Bank procedures that will be needed to implement
       the project.

B. General lessons:

       11. Choose a realistic, specific and relevant PDO to facilitate both effective
       M&E and results assessment. The PDO should be realistic at the project level,
       defined as an outcome, with indicators that provide clear linkage between the
       project inputs, outputs and outcomes.
       12. A public-private dialogue can be achieved with few project resources, but
       it requires intense involvement by the Task Team and broad participation is
       essential to avoid bias toward individual interest groups.
       13. Entrepreneurial training needs to be carefully targeted within a
       complete package promoting entrepreneurial opportunities (training by itself is
       not sufficient, as other factors influence business expansion, such as access to
       credit).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Government's ICR draft was written by an international consultant. His draft was
handed over by the Government to the Bank as the final version with few or no changes
made. The differences in perspective between the Government's feedback to IDA's draft
(where the Government presented reasons why the project merited a Satisfactory rating
for the achievement of the PDOs) and its own ICR (which rates the achievement of the




                                            25

PDOs as Unsatisfactory), poses questions about the extent to which the Government's
ICR actually reflects its views or the consultant's.

The Government's ICR follows two approaches to rate the project's outcome. The first
consists of rating each of the 9 components against their targets (6 are rated Moderately
satisfactory or higher, 2 are rated Unsatisfactory and one is rated Highly unsatisfactory -
no overall grade is given). The second approach rates project outcome as Moderately
unsatisfactory, based on the effect that outcomes had on the PDOs stated in the Grant
Agreement. The second approach results in a less favorable rating than the first because
capacity building, the main feature of the project after it was restructured, is strangely
enough not a PDO in the Grant Agreement (which was drafted by IDA). In contrast,
IDA's ICR follows the ICR Guidelines in taking the PDOs from the PAD - which include
capacity building.14 Hence the difference between the government's view of project
results and IDA's assessment is not as substantial a difference of opinion as it seems, but
is attributable in part to different approaches. See Annex 5 for details.


(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Development Alternatives International (DAI), which manages and implements the
private sector development project funded by USAID (DSP), commented on its
cooperation with SEP II, since DSP was reinvented in 2006/07. There was strong
collaboration with SEP II in the Dialogue and Business Regulatory Environment
components. But DSP faced similar design faults to SEP II with objectives being too
broad and unrealistic and is therefore focusing now on agri-business. DAI agrees that to
some extent SEP II contributed to laying the groundwork for future private sector
development, however, SEP II's impact is difficult to prove. In particular in the
components of dialogue and business regulatory environment, SEP II's duration was too
short to reap real outcomes, since such initiatives need longer time to mature in post-
conflict environments such as in Timor-Leste. DAI has had a similar experience with its
efforts in land law reform.




14The PDO in the Grant Agreement reads: "The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its
efforts to accelerate economic growth through the generation of employment and the improvement of the
competitiveness of small- and medium-sized enterprises." The PDO in the PAD reads: "The main
objectives of the Small Enterprises Project II (SEP II) are to generate employment, accelerate economic
growth, and improve SME competitiveness through providing an SME line of credit, capacity building
focused on Private Sector Development (PSD), and rehabilitation of market infrastructure".


                                                     26

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing




(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest
         Components           Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD      Percentage of

                                 millions)         millions)        Appraisal

SME LINE OF CREDIT                    4.00              0.00            0.00
PSD CAPACITY-BUILDING                 2.24              2.88          128.57
MARKET
REHABILITATION                        1.00              2.07          207.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                    0.26              1.80          692.31
INVESTMENT AND
EXPORT PROMOTION
AGENCY AND ECONOMIC                   0.00              0.67

OPPORTUNITY ZONE                                                        0.00
UNALLOCATED                           0.00              0.00          128.57



         Total Baseline Cost          7.50              7.42            98.93
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
          Total Project Costs         7.50              7.42            98.93
Project Preparation Fund
Front-end fee IBRD
  Total Financing Required




(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Late

        Source of Funds           Type of    Estimate     st Estimate Percentage
                                Cofinancing    (USD          (USD    of Appraisal
                                              millions)    millions)
Borrower                                   0.08          0.00        0.00
Special Financing                          7.50          7.42        98.93
Foreign Private Commercial
Sources (unidentified)                     0.44          0.00        0.00




                                        27

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. Private Sector Development

A. Business Development Services

The Business Development Centers (BDCs) were operated by GTZ International Services
(GTZ-IS) for 18 months as of November 2003. Administrative arrangements for the
operation of the BDCs were successfully established and continue generally unchanged.
The strength of the administrative arrangements was to give relative autonomy to each
BDC for day-to-day operations, subject to monthly and regular oversight from Dili. This
was adequate given that the level of existing business skills was lower outside Dili.
Training courses introduced by GTZ-IS are largely seen as inadequate since they are
computer-based and presume a higher level of education than is the case.

After the end of the GTZ-IS contract, the PIU supervised the continuation of training
delivery by the BDCs. During this time, ILO started its cooperation with the BDCs and
added a simpler course through its STAGE training scheme and a link to credit providers.
The transition from PIU funding and management to operation as a semi-autonomous
Government institution (IADE) was completed smoothly and successfully. Steady
improvements have been made in coordination with other training providers and trainees
are now being better linked to credit providers.

Overall, 3,931 persons (of which 45% female and 48% youth) and 55 trainers were
reported to be trained through training courses until hand-over to IADE on August 31,
2006, which is almost four times and 1.5 times the target, respectively. The high number
of youth trained could only be achieved by providing the training directly in secondary
schools, rather then by attracting youth to the BDCs. By the time of hand-over to IADE,
428 local annualized jobs have been estimated to be created through BDC-supported
businesses, 50% of which are female, and 23% youth, while 90 enterprises were
estimated to have increased staff or capital as a consequence of training. These figures
are rough estimates as they are based on a non-random sample. No new private providers
of business development services were established since people are unable to pay market
fees for such services.


B. Business Regulatory Environment

Bannock consulting firm was contracted from June 2003 to mid 2004 to implement this
sub-component. Thereafter, legal advisors were hired to continue technical assistance for
business regulatory initiatives.

The business regulatory initiatives supported by technical assistance exceeded the target
of 8. It is questionable if all ten can be defined as "business regulatory initiatives".
However, since the Grant Agreement lacks a definition of such initiatives, there is room



                                            28

for interpretation. These ten outputs are: Bankruptcy and Insolvency Law (1) which was
accompanied by a summary of Indonesia's laws concerning the business regulatory
environment, which remained unused until today and were not submitted to the Council
of Ministers. The first legal advisor revised the Foreign Investment Act (2) and the
Domestic Investment Act (3) and drafted the Decree Law on the Commercial Registry
Code (4), which were submitted to and approved by the Council of Ministers, and
promulgated by the Parliament. In addition, the advisor wrote memoranda regarding the
legislative policies for TradeInvest Timor-Leste (5) and IADE (6), while the Decree
Laws to the establishment of this agencies were drafted by other consultants outside SEP
II. The advisor was also asked to undertake work, such as the Organic Law for the
Ministry of Transport and Communication (7) and the accompanying regulations for the
Aviation Law (8). Given the unsatisfactory regulations for business registration under the
Commercial Registry Code, the second legal advisor hired by the PIU drafted an Interim
Business Registry Code suspending the Commercial Registry Code, as well as a Code
concerning formation of legal entities other than natural persons (9) to allow legal entities
to be recognized by the State as juridical persons. These two drafts are still awaiting
presentation to the Council of Ministers (which faces a backlog of submissions due to the
months spent reviewing urgent measures to address the internally displaced persons by
the recent crisis). This legal advisor also drafted a Decree Law on the establishment of
the by the PIU proposed Business Foundation (10), which, however, has not been taken
further by the Government.

As a result of the new Business Registration Code drafted under SEPII and approved by
the Council of Minister in December 2006, the time to start a business (as measured by
the Doing Business methodology) was cut by 10 days and required one procedure less.
The cost of registration as a percentage of income per capita fell 71 percentage points.
Timor-Leste's ranking in starting a business improved by 25 positions and the country
was highlighted as one of the reformers during 2007 by Doing Business 2008. As a result
of the negative feedback from the private sector in the 2nd national Forum, the Minister of
Development decided to further simplify business registration in August 2006 by
reducing the requirements of the Business Registration Unit. This is estimated (based on
information provided by the Business Registration Unit) to have cut the time to start a
business by 48 days, dropped 4 procedures, reduced the cost $200 and dropped the
$5,000 minimum capital requirement. To formalize these changes most of these
simplifications were included in the revised Business Registration Code drafted by the
SEPII lawyer late 2007, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers, but it has not
yet been reviewed.


C. Business-Government Dialogue Promotion

The implementation of this component only commenced in June 2004 due to the PIU's
delays in hiring an international consultant to facilitate the Business-Government
Dialogue. A total of eight regional forums were held in 2004 and 2005 with an average of
136 attendants (Dili, Viqueque, Suai, Manatuto, Baucau, Lospalos and Maliana). A
national information specialist was hired to assist the implementation and to produce a
monthly business newsletter underlining the forums. No newsletter has ever been


                                            29

published. After the first two national forums a national and an international consultant
were hired to support the implementation of this component. The target four National
Business Government Dialogue Forums were successfully held in Dili on June 23, 2005;
March 30-31, 2006; November 23-24, 2006; and June 8, 2007 with an average attendance
of 132 people.

The second Forum succeeded at convincing the government that the recently approved
Business Registry Code was excessively complex and of the need to simplify the
business registration process. The Minister of Development decided shortly thereafter to
simplify the steps that were required by the Ministry's Business Registration Unit.

It had been anticipated in the original design of the sub-component that the private sector
would have donor support for research and preparation of materials for each forum. This
was not forthcoming, FETL (Forum dos Empresarios de Timor-Leste), representing a
broad range of business associations, was formed in early 2006 with the support of the
USAID funded PSD project15, but lacked funds and skills to carry out research on key
aspects of the business environment.

Despite shortcomings, the work of the third forum was influential in producing an
undertaking by Government to set up a task force with the objective of institutionalizing
the tested business-Government dialogue process.

All forums were prepared by several working group meetings. Initially, there were two
multi-topic working groups producing long lists of recommendations or complaints. This
was restructured prior to the fourth forum to three issue-specific working groups who
were successful at producing analyses of the issues and drawing specific
recommendations. It was only by the fourth forum that working groups became
adequately focused and able to articulate needs effectively. The deliberations of the
working groups benefited strongly from the inputs of the national and international
business dialogue consultants from PIU. Typically, members of the working groups were
members of the Business Forum Timor-Leste.

At this time, the business forums have developed some capacity of the business sector to
articulate its needs and, as a result, Government is now better informed about the
business sector. However, there has been limited impact to date. The main contribution of
this SEPII sub-component is that it showed to the business sector and Government that
the business-Government dialogue process can work in Timor-Leste and that it is well
worth institutionalizing it. The process established by this sub-component must be
sustained for measurable impacts to become evident.

The activities supported by SEP II were instrumental in mobilizing IFC funding and
support for a two-year continuation of the business-Government dialogues where lessons




15The project was managed by Development Alternatives International.




                                               30

learned in the SEP II activities have been incorporated into the IFC-supported project.
There is broad support from both Government and the private sector for continuation of
the dialogue process.


D. Civil Service Training

GFA Management, a German consulting firm, was hired by the PIU to deliver a four-
module civil service training course between May 2003 and February 2004. 23 mid-level
civil servants (levels 4 and 5 - civil service range is from Levels 1 to 7) received training.
The courses were regarded as helpful and meaningful and were generally well received.

After the end of the GFA Management Contract, the BDCs took over civil servants
training and trained 42 civil servants by August 2006. It was expected that the training
materials produced by GFA Management would be used. Instead, the BDCs used the
course material for the train the trainer courses. Instead of the 4 week courses, these 42
civil servants received only 3-day training. These courses took place shortly before the
crisis in May 2006, therefore no follow-up could be done and any positive impact of this
last training is likely to be marginal. After handover to the Government, the BDCs have
not trained any other civil servants.


2. Market Place Development

Seventy of the 71 target markets were rehabilitated or constructed; accounting for about
half of the total number of markets rehabilitated or built in Timor-Leste since 1999.
While many can not accommodate all current traders and require expansion, these 70
markets have restored important social and business centers for a significant percentage
of the rural and national population of Timor-Leste.

The initial target agreed on was 74 markets (60 of which would be market rehabilitations
and 14 new market constructions). The target number of markets changed from 74 to 71
because one market was rehabilitated by another donor and two markets were cancelled
to free up resources to retrofit markets to satisfy environmental safeguards. The number
of markets to be rehabilitated and constructed also changed over time due to confusions
on the difference between the terms "rehabilitation" and "construction", and because
some markets to be rehabilitated were completely destroyed in violent upheavals, or it
was decided to change to another more desirable location in the same town/village.

The PIU formally started the rehabilitation of small markets through sub-grants
amounting to a maximum of $10,000 in July 2003. In the time-span of three years, 34
small markets were rehabilitated and 15 small markets newly constructed.

Works on large markets were delayed due to the government's decision not to contract a
firm to design the markets and supervise the works, but to expand the PIU's engineering
section to take over these tasks. Public works on large markets started in June 2005.
Seven large markets were newly built and 14 large markets were rehabilitated.


                                              31

Of the final target of 71 markets one market could not be completed due to problems with
the contractor and the community

72 Market Management Committees were formed (for all 70 markets as well as two other
markets, Taibessi and Gleno, which were later cancelled), of which 71 (exception:
Taibessi) did receive training from the BDCs. The female participation rate in the MMCs
at the closing of the project was 45.5%.


3. Investment and Export Promotion Agency and Economic Opportunity Zone

A. Investment and Export Promotion Agency

The Investment and Export Promotion Agency has been established and supported by
SEP II until August 31, 2006 when it was handed over to the Government reporting
directly to the Prime Minister. It was renamed TradeInvest Timor-Leste (TITL) and was
officially `launched' at the International Conference on Investment in Timor-Leste held
in Dili on 28-29 November 2005. TITL has focused on promotion and facilitation of FDI
in Timor-Leste, rather than export promotion, given the minimal production of non-oil
and gas exports in Timor-Leste.

The total number of approved FDI since the establishment of TITL under SEP II reached
57 in September 2007. The actual number of local employment generated through
realized FDI is not available. As of June 2007, the 56 approved applications indicated
expected total new employment of more than 31,000 over three years (annualized to be
over 10,000 new jobs per year) and inflows of USD 201 million over the same period,
which would very significantly exceed the targets of 400 jobs and USD 2 million inflows.
The sustainability of these numbers is not clear and realized numbers will likely be
different, especially for those investments involving large numbers of short term
construction jobs. Closer analysis of the applications and follow-up is required if TITL is
to know better the value of its services to the national economy. 56 approved investment
projects received Investment Certificates by TITL. The sectors that have most attracted
foreign investors' interests are tourism, infrastructure, fishery, and agribusiness. Of the
56 proposals approved, ten are outside Dili. Of 22 recent approvals, about half are for
expansion of existing enterprises and the other half for new enterprises.

By the end of the SEP II-support period, Government was expected to have passed
legislation to establish TITL as an autonomous agency and to provide full funding from
CFET for its operation. These two objectives were met. The establishment of TITL with
100% Government funding and the passage of related legislation was a success of SEPII.
This strong benefit was offset by weaknesses within TITL especially in regard to
facilitation/follow-up support for investors with investment certificates and promotion
(the TITL website is not fully operational).

Government Decree Law Number 7/2005 of July 25 2005 established TradeInvest Timor-
Leste (TITL). The Procedural Regulation for External Investment (Government Decree


                                             32

Number 6/2005) was promulgated the same day. According to Article 3 of Decree Law
Number 7/2005 TITL will:

    "promote, coordinate, facilitate, register and follow up on foreign investment and
    exports, as well as centralize the necessary administrative procedures for
    authorizing and registering foreign investments within the framework of laws,
    incentives and benefits provided in the Foreign Investment Law".

Article 4 of that Decree confirmed Government's commitment to sustaining the operation
of TITL:

    "The Government will attribute funds, through the regular Government budget, in
    the form of global budget, aimed at covering the expenses of establishment and
    operation of TradeInvest Timor-Leste".

SEP II funding for the internationally recruited CEO ended mid-February 2006. She
remained on post with support from USAID until the 2006 crisis. SEP II paid TITL staff
salaries until 31 August 2006. Up to that time all national contract staff were paid
significant salary premiums to ensure high quality work and commitment to their duties.
Not all staff employed before the end of August 2006 continued in TITL when they were
put on short-term contracts as national consultants to Government. As of June 2007 TITL
had four national professional staff, including the CEO. Budget problems limit longer
term planning as is needed by entities such as TITL.

Although the impact of TITL is not known and problems remain with staffing, housing
the agency, budget allocation and general management issues, the establishment of IEPA
and its later conversion into TITL as originally planned and the legal financial
commitment of GoTL to fund TITL operations is a strong positive result of SEP II.

B. Economic Opportunity Zone Preparation

The PIU contracted the firms PT. Moores Rowland Indonesia and Bentleys MRI Perth
Pty. in May 2005, after extensive delays, to implement the preparation of an economic
opportunity zone. A high-level Special Economic Zone Committee was established by
the PIU and met frequently to discuss the findings of the contractor. However, feedback
from them and the PIU was much lower than expected. As a first step the consultants
produced five information memoranda. In March 2006, the contractor presented the draft
interim report on the feasibility and characteristics of special economic zones as well as a
special economic zone infrastructure assessment field report on the location and
infrastructure requirements to the Government and to the SEZ committee. The interim
report included findings of an international survey of potential users/investors. In
November 2006, the contractor presented the final report to the SEZ committee. Due to
delays caused by national elections, the final report could only be presented to the
Council of Ministers on November 7, 2007 by the contractor.

The terms of reference of the contractor did not ask for an economic and social cost-
benefit analysis of special economic zones. Therefore, the final report only covers the


                                             33

characteristics and the feasibility of special economic zones in Timor-Leste. A decision
by the Council of Ministers on how to follow-up on the recommendations by the
contractor is pending.


4. Project Implementation Unit

The PIU's director was the respective Minister of Economy and Development of each
Government. Initially, only four national PIU staff were foreseen. With restructuring, the
PIU was considerably expanded. International consultants were hired for procurement,
finance and project advice, the supervision of construction works, the facilitation of the
Business Government Dialogue, the provision of technical assistance to business
regulatory initiatives, and the preparation of the recipient's ICR report. The PIU consisted
of a Project Manager, procurement, finance, engineering, dialogue facilitation, and BDC
coordination sections. In addition, there was an M&E specialist and a community
development specialist, as well as support staff. Training was rarely done through
participation in courses despite reminders from the Task Team, but rather in-service. All
national staff were employed as consultants and received considerably higher salaries
than civil servants in comparable positions. There is no evidence that this practice of
salary premiums resulted in the selection of superior individuals or in better work
performance. Performance evaluations did not take place, while contracts kept being
extended even if there were complaints about low staff performance. Overall, the
capacity of the PIU has remained low.




                                             34

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Due to a lack of data, SEP II's impact on economic growth cannot be quantified.
Similarly, SEP II's significance on economic growth cannot be calculated since other
important macro factors cannot be controlled for. The PAD stipulated that economic
growth was to be achieved through generation of employment and improvements of SME
competitiveness. The underlying assumption here was that loans provided through the
line of credit component would lead to direct private investments which would stimulate
the economy. However, since no loans were provided and the line of credit was cancelled,
this main channel was lost.

Other components in the original project structure, most notably entrepreneurial
training was intended to support investment creation through the line of credit and to
increase the demand for SME loans. The assumption for canceling the credit line was that
the newly established financial sector would better serve SMEs. However, soon after
restructuring it was recognized that SMEs and aspiring entrepreneurs, both the target
group of the BDCs, were still disadvantaged in terms of access to credit, since they do not
have collateral as larger enterprises do (in the absence of land and property regulations),
nor access to microfinance. Therefore, the BDCs by themselves could not assume the
function as a main driver of investment and employment creation. Nevertheless, training
did result in some starting or expansion of businesses (428 trainees got jobs and 90
enterprises increased capital or staff based on estimations from a non-random sample).
BDC training cannot be fully attributed to employment generation or business/capital
formation, and claims can be disputed. However, it can be assumed that entrepreneurial
training had a positive impact on SME competitiveness, employment generation and
direct private investments. It is expected that the economic rates of return of
entrepreneurial training through the BDCs are high, since the training intended to enable
business operators to better start, manage and expand their business, while training cost
per recipient is minimal. Nevertheless, the extent of the impact of BDC training remains
unknown. Furthermore, the impact on the economy is likely to be higher in the long term.

Public works, predominantly through SEP II's marketplace development component, has
had a short term impact on employment creation. 1,090 people have been employed from
about three to five months for construction works to rehabilitate or build markets.

The components of SEP II also aimed at improved efficiency in establishing and
operating businesses. The regulatory environment component aimed at creating a more
enabling environment, backstopped by training of civil servants to better support the
private sector, as well as by providing training to the private sector itself. SEP II made
important contributions to the business regulatory environment, through supporting the
establishing legislation for TITL and IADE, and through contributions to the investment
laws and to business registration. Nevertheless, much remains to be done, and Timor-
Leste continues to be one of the world's most difficult countries in terms of doing
business. SEP II is likely to have contributed to greater efficiency through time savings.
Efforts in improving business registration and TITL's facilitation for foreign investors



                                             35

have resulted in time savings in starting businesses in Timor-Leste. An increased number
of markets, in particular in remote rural areas have resulted in less time required by
traders to travel to markets.

SEP II's efforts in rehabilitating and building marketplace facilities has had an impact on
better conditions for small-scale merchants and traders. This undertaking brings
about important economic and social stimuli towards a more peaceful and productive
economy. However, the quantification of economic impacts on domestic trade is not
possible due to M&E weaknesses (lack of baseline data).




                                             36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

          Names                      Title              Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending



Supervision/ICR
Hormoz Aghdaey          Lead Financial Specialist      EASFP ICR Reviewer
Enrique Aldaz-Carroll   Economist                      EASPR TTL & ICR Lead

David Michael Chandler  Sr Financial Management Spec. EAPCO    Financial
                                                               Management
Bisma Husen             Procurement Spec.              EAPCO Procurement

James Orehmie Monday    Sr Environmental Engr.         EASRE   Environmental
                                                               Standards
                                                               Design and
Robert Scouller         Engineer Consultant            EASPR Construction
                                                               Standards
                                                               In-Country
Annabella Skof          Consultant                     EASPR Supervision, , ICR
                                                               report author


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                 No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                    5                       15.78
  FY02                                    4                       17.60
  FY03                                                             0.00
  FY04                                                             0.00
  FY05                                                             0.00
  FY06                                                             0.00
  FY07                                                             0.00

                       Total:             9                       33.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                             0.00
  FY02                                   10                       46.49


                                      37

FY03                5     15.65
FY04               15    117.08
FY05                      71.55
FY06               20     60.02
FY07               22     83.44
FY08               12

        Total:     74    394.23




                 38

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on IDA's Draft ICR

Two rating approaches are followed in the Government's ICR. The first approach rates the
outcome of the different project components. The second rates the project outcome based on the
PDOs of the Grant Agreement (GA).

The performance of the different project components is rated as follows:
    1. Business-Government dialogue promotion: Satisfactory.
    2. Investment and export promotion agency: Satisfactory.
    3. Business development services: Marginally* satisfactory.
    4. Business regulatory environment: Marginally* satisfactory.
    5. Market rehabilitation: Marginally* satisfactory.
    6. Economic opportunity zone: Marginally* satisfactory.
    7. Civil servant training: Unsatisfactory.
    8. PIU technical assistance: Unsatisfactory.
    9. SME line of credit: Highly unsatisfactory.

*In IDA's ICR Guidelines these ratings labels read "Moderately".

The objectives, design and implementation were rated Highly relevant, but the achievement of
the PDOs was rated Unsatisfactory.

The PDOs used for this evaluation differ from those of IDA's ICR. The PDOs are taken from the
Grant Agreement (GA) rather than the PAD and surprisingly the PDOs differ. The Government's
ICR rightly criticizes the GA's PDOs for not being specific enough and for not including
institutional capacity building. The PDOs in the PAD are more specific and include capacity
building, see footnote 15. The Government's ICR rates SEPII's achievement based solely on the
extent to which it created employment, accelerated economic growth and improved the
competitiveness of SMEs. The Government's ICR considers that outcome attribution issues, lack
of baselines and measurement problems prevent it from establishing with certainty that any of the
expected outcomes were achieved by the end of the project.

On the basis of this approach the government's ICR takes a less positive view of project results
than the IDA ICR above. Using this GA-based method, SEP II's overall outcome is rated
Moderately unsatisfactory in the government's ICR. SEP II outcomes had limited effect on
PDOs (narrowly defined as employment creation, income growth and the competitiveness of
SMEs). SEP II has contributed to the future growth of SMEs consistent with the PDOs by
supporting the development of a basic business training capacity, a new institution to facilitate
foreign direct investment and legislation that will help foster a better enabling environment for
SMEs. These latter outcomes will have discernible impacts only in the medium-term, and only if
these activities are properly supported and implemented by Government after SEP II.

SEPII's economic impact is not rated as relevant data is not available. The assessment would
have required a satisfactory baseline and adequate M&E of the SME operations that could
reasonably be claimed to have been established as a result of the project's activities. Building
capacity of public institutions in support of SMEs and market rehabilitation could only have
longer term impacts and after the originally expected 26 month implementation of SEP II.




                                                39

Impact on poverty, gender, social and institutional development is mostly limited. SEP II had
limited impact on poverty because it had a limited effect on employment, except the short-term
employment associated with construction contracts. Gender impacts likewise were limited.
Considerable effort was invested in ensuring that women were represented in almost equal
numbers with men on market management committees (MMCs). The effectiveness of their
membership is not known Institution building relevant to development of the SME sector can be
attributable to SEP II. These institution building outcomes should be sustainable.

Risk to development outcome of SEP II is rated Significant. The principal benefits from SEP II
will derive from the institutions established by the project. To be sustained, these young
institutions will require ongoing commitment to capacity building for staff concerned with the
business sector and direct budgetary support from Government. Adequate budget allocations may
not be forthcoming and loss of momentum may result, impacting adversely on sustainability.

IDA performance is rated Moderately satisfactory. At appraisal, IDA did not take adequate
account of the limited professional capacity of the implementing agency. Linking the proposed
line of credit for SEP II to satisfactory completion of the SEP I line of credit was a key constraint
on SEP II implementation and adequate risk mitigation measures for its failure were not prepared.
IDA contributed directly and significantly to SEP II in addition to the usual supervisory role.
However, greater attention could have been given to developing an effective partnership with the
PIU by building its capacity. The review missions appreciated the skills shortage problem in PIU
and successive review teams urged commitment of SEP II funds to appropriate training, but the
matter was not pursued vigorously by IDA and little training was actually completed.

Government and PIU performance is rated Moderately unsatisfactory. SEP II had six different
Project Directors with different management styles. Management was nominally the
responsibility of the Project Manager. However, in practice day-to-day management was
performed jointly by the Project Director and Project Manager. This weakened the latter's
authority and effectiveness. This situation was rectified by the last Project Director in mid-2007.
Although collaboration across several Ministries was required to design, review and implement
regulations, the government was not fully effective in ensuring this collaboration to the detriment
of SEP II outcomes. Moreover, the PIU was not provided initially with adequate professional
support to carry out tasks. As a result there were problems with procurement, financial
management and disbursement. Poor PIU management, including absence of a staff assessment
procedure, poor work planning and reporting and lack of staff accountability for work done, have
all contributed to inefficiency in implementation and poor outcomes. Key staff required training
to enable them to do their work as contracted. However, this was not done.


Government's main Comment on IDA's Draft ICR: (extract from Memorandum dated 28th of
December 2007 signed by the Minister of Economy and Development, H. E. Joao Gonçalves)

"At the end of the project the report acknowledges that there is a better business regulatory
environment, better awareness, a government-business dialogue process, new markets, new
business training facilities and two investment promotion organizations. It would appear
significant progress has been made toward addressing the major issues that existed at the start of
the project. The report even notes that the project made a contribution toward the dialogue on
resettlement, which was seen as positive.

Based on the evaluation of the agreed PDOs, the PIU office was quite successful and based on the
agreed indicators, the overall project succeeded. While the PDO indicators may have been



                                                 40

reported as being less appropriate than they could have for a project such as this, the report rightly
concludes that fault lie primarily in the project design. The PIU should not be penalized for poor
design or bad indicators or insufficient resources to accomplish the task at hand. The question for
discussion is not that whether or not the project succeeded, but what was the magnitude of the
benefits and what can we do to make the next project better.

Action for improvement: Report should record that the project succeeded in meeting its targets
and then comment on its successes and on any areas for improvement in future projects."




                                                 41

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                     42

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Implementation Completion Report of SEP II written by the Ministry of Economy and
Development of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste,




                                        43

Annex 8. Explanation of Performance Ratings

Source: extract from ICR Guidelines, Appendix A.




                                         44

45

MAP




       Map IBRD 33496




              46

