Document of
The World Bank
Report No.  15028-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 26, 1996
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1995)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00    = Rp 2,246
Rp I million = US$445
ACADEMIC YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAN                    National Board of Accreditation
BAPPENAS               National Development Planning Board
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
BST                    Basic Science Team
D-1                    One-year post-secondary diploma course
D-11                   Two-year post-secondary diploma course
D-11                  Three-year post-secondary diploma course
DGHE                   Directorate-General of Higher Education
DGPSE                  Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education
FKIP                   Faculty of education of a university
GOI                    Government of Indonesia
ICR                    Implementation completion report
IKIP                   Teacher training institute with education and other faculty departments
DIP                    Development budget
KANWIL                 MOEC provincial office
LPTK                   General term for teacher training institution
MENPAN                 State Ministry for Administrative Reform
MOEC                   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
NCB                    National competitive bidding
PIMPRO                 Office of the project director
PIU                    Project implementation unit
PPAR                   Project performance audit report
REPELITA               Five-Year Development Plan
S I                    Undergraduate degree program
S2                     Master's level graduate program
S3                     Doctorate level graduate program
SMA                    Senior secondary school
SMP                    Junior secondary school
SPG                    Former primary teacher training institute
SOE                    Statement of expenditure
STKIP                  Teacher training institute with education faculty department only
UT                     The Open University



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Implementing
Agency:                Directorate -General of Higher Education (DGHE)
Ministry of Education and Culture
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Amount:                US$60.4 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:        0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent):
GOI         IBRD           Total
Local         25.3          24.6          49.9
Foreign         1.4         35.8          37.2
Total         26.7          60.4          87.1
Economic Rate
of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 15028-IND
Map:                  IBRD 27463
Project Identification
Number:                ID-PA-4003



- 11 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY .............................................................i
1. SECONDARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT ............................I
A. Background ............................................................1I
B. Major Issues in Secondary Teacher Education ........................................................ 2
C. Government Policies on Teacher Education Development ......................................6
2. BANK  INVOLVEMENT AND  LESSONS LEARNED                                          ...............................................6
A. Previous Bank Involvement .............................................................6
B. Lessons Learned .............................................................7
C. Bank Strategy and  Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................................8
3. THE  PROJECT .............................................................9
A. Project Objectives ............................................................9
B. Project Components ............................................................9
C. Project Implementation ............................................................ 17
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................               ......................... 18
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT ... 20
A. Project Costs ............................................................ 20
B. Financing .......................:                                                                          22
C. Procurement ...................... 23
D. Disbursement ...................... 27
E. Accounts, Audits and Reports ......................                                                          28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in June/July
1995 comprising Man He You (Economist, Mission Leader), Alfonso F. de Guzman (Senior
Education Specialist), Chris Smith (Operations Officer), Carol Ball (Operations Analyst), and
Yanhong Zhang (Summer Intern). Mari Takahashi Parker (Education Specialist) assisted in data
analysis and report preparation. Cynthia Cristobal and Mercedes Bautista assisted in the production
of the report. Peer reviewers were Audrey Aarons, Elizabeth M. King, and William E. Rees.
Marianne Haug, Director, EA3, and Samuel Lieberman, Acting Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the
report.



Page
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................................                                                            28
A. Benefits .....................................................                                                               28
B. Risks .....................................................                                                                  29
6. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... 30
A.  Agreements Reached .....................................................  30
B. Recommendation .....................................................                                                         32
TABLES IN TEXT
4.1       Summary of  Project Costs by Component .....................................................                                 20
4.2       Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .............................................. 21
4.3    Financing Plan .....................................................                                                             23
4.4    Procurement Arrangements .....................................................                                                  26
ANNEXES
1.    Qualifications of Public Secondary  School Teachers, 1992-93 ....................................... 33
2.    Profile of Public IKIPs and STKIPs .....................................................                                        34
3.  Profile of Public FKIPs .....................................................                                                     36
4.    Profile of Private LPTKs, 1994 .....................................................                                            38
5.    Academic Qualifications of  LPTK  Teaching Staff, 1994 ............................................... 39
6.  Economic Analysis .....................................................                                                           40
7.    Bank  Group-Financed Education and Training Projects ................................................. 48
8.  Strengthening Linkages Between LPTKs and Secondary Schools ................................. 49
9.    Coordinating the Training, Recruitment, and Appointment of Teachers ......................... 53
10.  Technical Assistance Summary .....................................................                                               59
11.  Detailed Five-Year Implementation  Schedule .....................................................                                60
12. Project Components, Expenditure Accounts by Year,
Expenditure Accounts by Component .....................................................                                    72
13. Procurement Plan .....................................................                                                            75
14.  Estimated  Schedule of Disbursements .....................................................                                       76
15.  Monitoring and Evaluation .....................................................                                                  77
16. Supervision Plan .....................................................                                                            87
17.  Project Efficiency and  Sustainablity .....................................................                                      88
18.  Selected  Documents and Data Available in the Project File ............................................ 93
CHART
Project Management Organization Structure
MAP
IBRD 27463



1. SECONDARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
A. BACKGROUND
Project Context
1.1      Over the last 25 years, Indonesia has focused on increasing access to educational
opportunities. As a result, from 1969 to 1994, the participation rates in junior secondary edu-
cation (grades 7-9, SMP) increased from 15 percent to 54 percent, and in senior secondary
education (grades 10-12, SMA) from 9 percent to 34 percent. Currently, about 28,600 secon-
dary schools enroll about 11.3 million students, 56 percent boys and 44 percent girls. Most of
the junior secondary schools offer the general education curriculum; about one-third of the
senior secondary schools offer specialized curricula in home economics and in vocational-
technical education. Private schools enroll about one-third of all junior secondary students
and more than half of the senior secondary student population. About 1.6 million students
attend Islamic schools.
1.2       REPELITA VI (the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan, 1994-1999) stipulates
the following education strategies: (i) improving access and equity to education for every per-
son; (ii) strengthening linkages among educational inputs, processes, and products to ensure
relevance and quality; and (iii) budgeting more efficiently and making greater use of trained
staff. In pursuit of those strategies, the Government has started implementing an obligatory
nine years of basic education (i.e., six years of primary education and three years of SMP) as
well as programs to improve the quality of education. In addition to expanding enrollments in
existing schools, education would be delivered to difficult-to-reach areas through innovative
means. This includes organizing small schools (SMP keci!) in remote locations with fewer
teachers but flexible teaching assignments and transmitting secondary education lessons to
working people in widely dispersed locations through the various media of distance education
(SMP terbuka, "open SMP"). The coverage of secondary education, especially at the junior
level, is expected to expand significantly as a result. Qualified teachers will be in demand to
train the new generation of better skilled workers needed by the rapidly growing economy.
1.3      In quantitative terms, the teacher training system has the capacity to produce the
secondary school teachers to meet the needs of the expansion. However, the system as a
whole suffers from inefficiency, and the individual training institutions suffer from qual-
ity deficiencies--these limit the gains to society from an expanded secondary education
system. A project to improve teacher education would have significant benefits. First,
LPTKs would improve their efficiency by upgrading their program content, qualifications and
effectiveness of staff, facilities, and linkages with the schools they serve. Second, LPTKs will
then become more cost-effective as they use their resources more efficiently. Further, the
benefits of the improved institutions would extend to the new secondary school teachers
(about 25,000 yearly) who would be reached by the project, and the secondary school stu-
dents taught by those teachers (about two million yearly).



2            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
The Existing Teacher Training System
1.4      There are three types of public LPTKs: the institute with education and other
faculty departments (IKIP), the institute with an education faculty department only (STKIP),
and the education faculty affiliated with a university (FKIP). The institutions vary by owner-
ship (public, private), size, location, quality, and other characteristics (Annexes 2 and 3). The
31 public LPTKs, consist of 10 IKIPs and two STKIPs located in urban centers and 19 FKIPs
located in rural areas. Together these public institutions produced approximately 20,000
teacher in 1994 and are the largest providers of secondary school teachers. The public LPTKs
are superior to their private counterparts in facilities, funding and public perception. IKIP
Bandung, the nearest to Jakarta, has a large faculty and student body and is known as the
center for mathematics and science education. STKIP Singaraja in Bali is small but has close
links to local secondary schools. The 211 private LPTKs are of uneven quality and produced
24,000 graduates in 1994. Their graduates compete with the public LPTKs for teaching posi-
tions in public secondary schools (Annex 4).
1.5      LPTKs are considered an integral part of a higher education system which itself is
changing. A newly created Higher Education Strategy Commission is addressing key issues
such as low staff motivation and morale, inefficient utilization of existing resources, and sys-
temic rigidity. Four elements would constitute the cornerstones of the emerging reform: (i)
institutional autonomy, (ii) accountability, (iii) accreditation, and (iv) evaluation. Projects
following this "new paradigm" for higher education are being developed (some of them for
World Bank financing), which would affect both public and private LPTKs. Tertiary institu-
tions will become subject to accreditation based on a self-evaluation process, and competi-
tion for resources will gradually be introduced. A semiautonomous National Accreditation
Board (BAN) has been established, and the Higher Education Council, chaired by the Direc-
tor-General of Higher Education, will be established in 1996 to take charge of higher educa-
tion policy formulation and budget allocation.
B. MAJOR ISSUES IN SECONDARY TEACHER EDUCATION
Efficiency Issues
1.6      Overstaffing at LPTKs. Although the Government has embarked on a "zero
growth" policy in the public sector, the education sector has been spared, and 25,000 teaching
positions were approved for 1996, including 8,000 new positions. The Directorate-General of
Higher Education (DGHE) has generally maintained zero growth in LPTK staffing, canceling
programs of study where enrollments no longer warrant their existence. (On exception, new
faculty are recruited from among university graduates, to strengthen subject content knowl-
edge, especially in mathematics and science.) Nonetheless, certain public IKIPs are over-
staffed. When study programs have been eliminated for lack of student demand, the resulting
excess teaching staff, enjoying civil service status, are kept on the payroll to share teaching
loads with others or to do other academic work. This has resulted in a low student-teacher
average ratio of 9.9:1 for public LPTKs, a figure that masks wide variations, from 4:1 at
STKIP Gorontalo to 12:1 at IKIP Jakarta. Raising the ratio to 12:1, the current student-



Staff Appraisal Report                            3
teacher ratio at universities, would free up to 2,400 lecturers who would then have no teach-
ing assignment and would be available for reassignment.
1.7       Limited access to inservice training. The upgrading of teachers to SI level
through various inservice training programs, including those offered by the Open University
(Universitas Terbuka, UT), is in need of support. During the period of rapid expansion of sec-
ondary education in the 1970s and 1980s, diploma programs and crash courses were opened by the
Government in order to overcome teacher shortages. As a result, about three-quarters of the jun-
ior secondary and more than half of the senior secondary school teachers are underqualified
because the minimum qualification for secondary school teachers today is an SI (bachelor's)
degree (Annex 1). While LPTKs have been commissioned since 1992 to provide three-year post
secondary diploma (D-III) upgrading courses for junior secondary teachers, less is being done for
the upgrading of teacher qualification from D-III to SI. Various universities are now offering ex-
tension courses to allow for S I upgrading, which the teachers pay for themselves. Since these pro-
grams require fees and are campus-based (except for the bachelor-level students at UT) teachers
who work in outlying areas or who cannot afford the fees are unable to participate. In addition,
many of the self-instructional modules for the upgrading programs were produced quickly and not
field-tested, so there are doubts about quality and effectiveness. By this standard, a fair sized in-
service program will be required to upgrade these teachers under the new standards in order
not to lose the investments already made on these individuals.
Institutional Quality Issues
1.8       Underqualified faculty. LPTK faculty qualifications are generally low. To meet
the demands for teaching staff in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the LPTKs recruited new
faculty members directly from their own graduating classes with the Sl degree. As a result,
only 23 percent of the LPTK teaching staff have the S2 (master's) or S3 degree (doctorate),
and many lecturers have no classroom teaching experience in secondary schools. While fac-
ulty at U.S. teacher education institutions typically hold the S3 degree, the current Indonesian
objective is to achieve the S2 qualification for at least 50 percent of all faculty at tertiary level
institutions. Fellowship programs have already been put in place, and taking into account
those currently taking graduate studies, the proportion would increase to 37 percent (Annex
5).
1.9        The teacher educators themselves need help to improve their subject-specific
pedagogical knowledge and skills. Under the current LPTK curriculum, the subject-education
courses are too general and do not sufficiently address the question of how to teach specific
concepts and skills, and how to assess and provide feedback to students. The links among
LPTKs are weak, and LPTK links with international teacher education institutions are few.
1.10      Rigid preservice curriculum. The SI curriculum needs improvements in scope,
quality, and relevance to local teaching situations, especially at the junior secondary level.
Through the Basic Science Team (BST) composed of educators from the Bandung Institute of
Technology and IKIP Bandung, efforts began in 1989 to strengthen subject matter content
courses in mathematics and science teacher education programs. Similar efforts are needed
for the other subject areas. Further, LPTK students graduate with a major in the one subject
content area that they would teach in school; however, those SMPs with small enrollments



4            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
need teachers who can teach more than one subject (horizontal flexibility). In 1992, some
LPTKs have begun experimenting with a curriculum that would allow the graduates to teach
at both SMP and SMAs (vertical flexibility), an initiative that needs support. In the area of
pedagogy, the current courses are oriented toward the senior secondary students, ignoring the
pedagogy needs of early adolescents, which are different.
1.11     Facilities not up to standard. Equipment for the teaching of mathematics and
science subjects are inadequate. Measured against the minimum standard for equipment set
by the BST for teaching the mathematics and science curricula (para. 3.4), there is wide
variation among the institutions in the supply and quality of equipment as well as storage fa-
cilities, maintenance capacity, and general condition of laboratories. Because training and
guidance are inadequate, the available equipment are often underutilized and inappropriately
maintained.
1.12     Reference and other library books at LPTKs are out of date. Many of the titles
purchased under the Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101 -IND), completed in 1990,
are at least five years old. The writing and translating of key works in education to Bahasa
Indonesia is needed to give teacher educators and trainees, most of whom cannot read foreign
languages, a wider access to new materials. Moreover, teacher educators do not have access
to the textbooks, teachers' manuals, and curriculum guides currently used in secondary
schools, leaving them out of touch with the national curriculum as it is applied in the class-
room.
1.13     Faculty offices are crowded or lacking altogether. In many IKIPs, as many as 20
lecturers share a single room. There is insufficient space to provide them with their own desks
where they can prepare their lessons or counsel their students. There is rarely any space avail-
able for staff meetings or for group discussions with students. Such conditions work against
instilling professionalism among faculty, collegiality, and commitment to their home institu-
tion.
1.14     LPTKs uninformed of their "market." Research on effective schools show the
importance of a supportive and cooperative relationship between the teacher training institu-
tion and the schools it serves. Currently, Indonesian teacher education programs do not em-
phasize exchanges between schools and LPTKs. Often, teacher trainees are trained without a
concrete understanding of what happens in schools on a day-to-day basis. For example, train-
ees have very little guidance during teaching practicum, and little opportunity for spending
time observing or researching in schools. International studies have shown that essential
changes in the performance of student teachers occur from week 8 to week 10, a finding that
supports the need for a minimum of one semester for the student teaching experience. The
current training context is not conducive to producing proficient trainees who identify
strongly as teachers and have a solid, practical command of their profession.
1.15     Inadequate preparation of teacher candidates. The higher education entrance
examination scores indicate that a great number of the LPTK recruits have not mastered the
secondary school course content. It is well established that the entry-level characteristics of
students are critical to their future learning. LPTKs, however, rarely develop an understanding
of the entry characteristics of their students. In turn, many graduates are deficient in their subject



Staff ppraisal Report                              5
content competency. In order to improve the quality of the graduates, it is necessary that the
new students' performance be assessed and that guidance and training on learning strategies
and study habits be provided.
1.16      Career information systems need to be developed. Up to the mid-1980s, nearly all
of those who qualified in a secondary school teaching subject had a clear career path. Since
then, the absorptive capacity of secondary schools has declined. It is difficult to attract teach-
ers to the rural and remote areas. Teacher shortages still persist in some specia!ized subjects
(e.g., art and music) in provinces where the local LPTK does not run an appropriate training
program, and new recruits come from elsewhere. But in most of the subject areas, teaching
positions are filled (many graduates are said to be either unemployed or have nonteaching
employment). The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) delegates the recruitment of
teachers for the provinces to the respective Kanwils (provincial education authorities). The
appointments of public school teachers, who are national civil service employees, are proc-
essed centrally in Jakarta. Since they are not regularly linked to the Kanwil office, most
LPTKs do not have timely information on employment, cannot provide employment counsel-
ing to their students, and do not follow up on the placement of their graduates.
1.17      Weak educational research. LPTK lecturers undertake research mainly to up-
grade their qualifications or to gain credit points for promotion. In many institutions, little of
this research relates to secondary schools. This is also because teachers themselves are sel-
dom exposed to classroom research and have rarely thought about themselves as researchers.
1.18      Research to improve instruction is needed. In addition to a well-functioning as-
sessment system for diagnosing the characteristics of the entering SI students, LPTKs should
promote studies related to improving classroom teaching. Current LPTK research provides
little feedback for use by lecturers in improving teacher effectiveness or by practicing teach-
ers in improving their instruction. LPTKs are often criticized that courses fail to exemplify
good pedagogy and remain unchanged from year to year.
1.19      Sharing of experiences and scholarly exchanges is limited. Many LPTKs publish
a journal with articles from their own teaching staff, but these do not receive wide circulation
outside the institution. Establishing a national journal on teacher education, particularly with
a focus on teaching techniques and research on schools, would reach a wider audience and
would serve as a forum for issues in Indonesian teacher education.
1.20      Inadequate accreditation systems. Currently there is no external validation of the
exit quality of graduates of the public LPTKs or of the programs offered. Courses of study and
their corresponding tests are designed, and administered, by the lecturers themselves. Although
there are comprehensive exams and thesis exams for those students who write theses, these do not
cover all students. The diplomas awarded as a result of the aggregate of courses are recognized and
accepted as the qualification for entry into the ranks of civil service employment. Under the Sec-
ond Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101 -IND), a system of self-evaluation and peer valida-
tion was developed and piloted. Separately, under the ongoing Second Higher Education
Development Project (Loan 331 I-IND) a self-evaluation model is being developed which is
concerned with input, process, and product. The results of these two self-evaluation models
can be considered as the bases of self-improvement and future direction-setting by the insti-



6            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
tutions concerned. Both of these systems provide a model which could become part of the
new program under the BAN.
C. GOVERNMENT POLICIES ON TEACHER EDUCATION
1.21     The Government has made several important changes in teacher education poli-
cies in recent years. In 1989 a policy was established requiring all new primary school teach-
ers to be trained at the D-11 level (two-year postsecondary school) instead of the upper
secondary level as before. The Bank is currently assisting the implementation of this policy
through the Primary Teacher Development Project (Loan 3496-IND). The policy requires all
practicing primary school teachers (except those near retirement) to be upgraded to the D-11
level through distance or face-to-face education. In addition DGHE has phased out all di-
ploma courses for the preservice education of secondary school teachers (lower and upper),
so all new teachers at that level now need to have a SI degree. Practicing lower secondary
school teachers are now being officially upgraded to D-III level at the Government's expense.
So far there has been no regulation requiring current secondary school teachers to upgrade to
the SI level, although many have begun to upgrade using their own funds
2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1      Over the last 25 years, the Bank Group has been involved in financing 33 educa-
tion and training projects in Indonesia (US$2,072.5 million), among which 21 projects
(US$1,406.0 million) have been implemented through the MOEC, including four projects
with substantial teacher training content (Annex 7). Bank lending has assisted the Govern-
ment from the start-up stages of alleviating shortage of technical personnel, to an increased
emphasis on quality issues, and then to a wider sectoral emphasis on investment programs
and policy reforms in education.
2.2      The Fourth Education Project (Loan 1237-IND), 1976-84, assisted the technical
faculties of IKIPs Padang and Yogyakarta providing buildings, furniture, and equipment for
2,750 students and domestic and overseas degree and nondegree fellowships to 186 teaching
staff, to improve their pedagogical skills and the mastery of subject matter content. The First
Teacher Training Project (Loan 1433-IND), 1977-84, provided classrooms, educational
equipment and instruments, books, and learning centers; implemented the 1976 primary
teacher education (SPG) curriculum and developed courses for the upgrading of SPG teachers
and administrative staff; the 1979 LPTK curriculum was produced; various subject matter
programs (including Bahasa Indonesia, English, mathematics) were improved; and courses
for upgrading IKIP academic and administrative staff were conducted. In the Second Teacher
Training Project (Loan 2101-IND), 1982-90, equipment was supplied to various teacher
training programs in Jakarta,  Yogyakarta, and Malang; the accompanying fellowship



StaffAppraisal Report                            7
program trained six doctors, 124 masters, and 150 others who attended short courses; build-
ings, books, and educational equipment were provided to nine IKIPs and two FKIPs; 54
doctors, 111 masters were trained; and various programs for IKIPs were developed, including
a sandwich program for three graduate faculties, refresher programs, and short-term upgrad-
ing courses for lecturers and administrators. The Primary School Teacher Development Proj-
ect (Loan 3496-IND), ongoing since 1992, would produce well-trained primary school
teachers through the development of a tertiary-level diploma course. Placing graduates is
proving difficult because of the current zero-growth policy in hiring civil servants and the
continued hiring of unqualified teachers.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
2.3       The following lessons have been learned from preceding Bank-assisted teacher
training projects in Indonesia. The project performance audit report (PPAR) "Indonesia
Fourth Education Project" (Report No. 6312, 1986) and the implementation completion report
(ICR) noted the difficulty in managing multiple project implementation units (PlUs) and the
need to keep funding operation and maintenance after the end of the project. The PPAR
"Indonesia Fifth Education (First Teacher Training) Project" (Report No. 6315, 1986) noted
the lack of training in the use of equipment procured by the project, minimizing the potential
benefit of that investment. And the ICR "Indonesia Second Teacher Training Project" (Report
No. 10217, 1991) noted the lack of coordination among units of the MOEC charged with
implementing the project; inadequate staffing for project management; the lack of English-
language competency of the teaching staff, minimal usefulness of project-procured library
books and references; and the lack of systematic mechanism for the selection, monitoring,
reentry, and utilization of project fellowship awardees.
2.4       Other recent Bank-supported teacher training projects point to the following les-
sons: (i) the need for intensive Bank supervision in the early stages of implementation and a
suitable balance of skills on supervision missions; and (ii) the importance of expert advice to
the counterparts so that the local staff can gain from training opportunities
2.5       The above lessons have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project. The PIU for this project will be under the administrative supervision of the Govern-
ment's project unit for teacher education (PIMPRO), analogous to and supported by the PIU
for the ongoing Primary School Teacher Development Project (Loan 3496-IND), and would
have four senior education professionals assisting the Project Manager (para. 3.26). Coordi-
nation among project implementation subunits would be assured by the Project Development
Team of the office of the Project Manager, which would include representatives of the Direc-
torate-General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) and the Open University
(UT). Predeparture training, especially in the English language (para. 3.14), and training in
the use of equipment (para. 3.4) are integral parts of their respective components. Further, the
project would support the translation to Bahasa Indonesia of selected education books in in-
ternational languages (para. 3.5), to widen readership in the teacher education institutions.



8            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
C. BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
Bank Strategy
2.6      The proposed project supports the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indo-
nesia which was presented to the Board on March 21, 1995. In terms of education and train-
ing, the Bank's strategy calls for continuing to assist Indonesia in meeting its development
objectives through a lending program that would address critical issues in human resource
development, especially those related to educational quality. This means increasing expendi-
tures on education and better distribution of teachers, staff training, and learning materials. At
the same time, the strategy calls for adaptation of approaches as appropriate to the transition
underway in Indonesia. In education and training, this means focusing the assistance to re-
gional and provincial levels and engaging the participation of beneficiaries at those decentral-
ized locations.
2.7      The proposed project actively pursues both elements of the strategy. On the one
hand, it directly addresses the educational issues of the quality of teacher formation and the
efficiency of teacher deployment. On the other hand, by taking the individual teacher training
institution as the unit of development, the project diverts attention from the DGHE in Jakarta
to focus more sharply on the LPTKs which are dispersed at 31 locations in the wide archipel-
ago. As was attempted during project preparation, project implementation would be through
preparation efforts and proposals by the individual institutions (with the help of technicians
and managers from the center, as needed), most of which are in the provinces.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.8      The Bank's unique comparative advantage is its having assisted in the formula-
tion, implementation, and evaluation of education projects throughout the developing world
and in Indonesia for over two decades. The Bank is a trusted partner in education develop-
ment in Indonesia and is being called upon at this stage of the country's development to in-
tensify assistance in strategic initiatives in all levels of education. Lessons from ongoing
projects in basic education are being considered in preparing a series of secondary education
projects focused on expansion and quality improvements at provincial levels. The ongoing
project in primary school teacher education provides invaluable experience on coordinating
many governmental agencies to make teacher training responsive to the needs of teachers in
schools. And an ongoing project in university research provides the impetus for the prepara-
tion of a new project aimed at improving undergraduate education along the lines of the "new
paradigm" of higher education (para. 1.5).



StaffAppraisal Report                         9
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The primary objective of the proposed project is to enhance teaching-learning proc-
esses in secondary schools through the improvement of teacher education in 31 public
LPTKs. The project would support activities in these institutions that promote quality and
efficiency in the preservice and inservice programs (including curricular, resource and staff
development); build educational research capacity; and enhance effective management. Fur-
ther, the project would support activities to establish sustainable linkages between LPTKs and
secondary schools and to define a wider mandate, toward conversion to university status for
selected LPTKs.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.2      To achieve the above objectives, the project would have the following compo-
nents: (i) improving preservice and inservice teacher education; (ii) strengthening linkages to
secondary schools; (iii) raising the qualifications of teacher educators; (iv) building educa-
tional research capacity; and (v) preparing for a wider mandate. In addition, the project would
actively promote the participation of female educators and strengthen the project implementa-
tion capacity of DGHE.
Component 1: Improving Preservice and Inservice Teacher Education
(Base cost: US$30.6 million)
3.3      Curriculum improvement The SI curriculum would be further developed for
verticalflexibility (to allow students to shift between teaching in junior secondary and teach-
ing in senior secondary), horizontalflexibility (to enable graduates to teach more than one
subjects), and externalflexibility (to enable graduates to compete for employment outside the
education sector). Under this project, a team for English and another for the social sciences
(history, geography, economics, moral education) would be organized to further develop
flexibility in their respective subject areas. Comparable to the Bandung-based Basic Science
Team (BST), which was organized to improve the science and mathematics curricula, each
team would include a representative from the LPTK, the university, and the secondary school.
Representatives from the curriculum department of the MOEC's research and development
agency (Balitbang Dikbud) would also be involved as resource persons. A third team, for
subject-specific pedagogy, would be organized to recommend curriculum changes in peda-
gogy courses (general as well as subject-specific) for horizontal and vertical flexibility. This
team would have four members, to represent the pedagogy of language, mathematics, sci-
ences, and social sciences. The teams would be based at IKIPs known for their strong English
language, social science, and pedagogy programs, respectively. Based on the success of the
above teams, a fourth team, for Bahasa Indonesia, could be organized at project midtern,
following assessment of feasibility. The curriculum teams would call national meetings to
initiate the process; conduct the analysis and planning of curriculum development; visit SMPs
and SMAs to assess content and pedagogical competency needed to teach at those levels and
share the assessment with LPTKs; and organize for processing feedback, curriculum revision,



10          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
and implementation at LPTKs. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that not
later than July 1, 1996, the curriculum teams for English, social sciences, and subject-specific
pedagogy would be established; each such team would be established in an IKIP selected on
the basis of its strong English, social sciences or subject-specific pedagogy program, respec-
tively; and thereafter such teams would be maintained until the completion of the project
[para. 6.1 (a)].
3.4       Science equipment The BST (para.3.3), which would coordinate the implemen-
tation of this subcomponent, maintains a standard list of equipment which meets the curricu-
lar requirements in LPTK biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. Based on this list,
the 10 IKIPs and two STKIPs have checked their current laboratory stock and identified the
items needed, to bring their respective institutions up to standard. The BST would review
each request, assess the condition of storage facilities, and verify the availability of recurrent
budgets for the provision of maintenance and consumables. It would develop a final list with
the requesting institution to be recommended for procurement under the project. The BST
would also conduct for LPTK staff workshops in the use and maintenance of the equipment.
These workshops would help teacher education candidates develop maintenance skills that
help make their teaching efficient.
3.5       Secondary textbooks and education references. Two complete sets of current
SMP and SMA textbook series published by Balai Pustaka of the Government and by major pub-
lishers in the private sector would be provided to all 31 public LPTKs to provide both faculty and
students access to the textbooks and other curriculum materials that are currently being used in
schools. In addition, a set of about 100 titles consisting of the latest international references in
education and other books on subject content and teaching methods would be provided to the li-
braries of each of the LPTKs. The writing of about 25 titles and the translation of about 75 foreign
publications would also be supported. These titles would help lecturers to promote active learning
among their students through discussion, problem-solving, self-study, and homework. Proposals
for writing or translation would be solicited by the PIU which would organize a team to select the
awardees.
3.6       Student support services. A student support center would be established in each
LPTK to provide tutorial services and assistance on study skills development, to help entering
students gain the knowledge and skills necessary to be successful in their beginning-level
subject-matter courses. The LPTK would assign office space for the center which would have
a director and tutors, preferably faculty members during their off hours. The tutors would be
compensated accordingly, an incentive that would provide faculty members with an alterna-
tive to a second occupation and increase their time for interaction with students on campus.
3.7   Inservice education for secondary school teachers. To upgrade the qualification of
teachers, the majority of whom still have lower than S I qualifications, scholarships would be
awarded to applicants who show promise in contributing to school renewal, student teaching and
LPTK-school partnerships (Type 1); or are motivated but come from low-income families or re-
mote geographical areas (Type 2). Care would be taken to actively seek and include motivated
female teachers with leadership qualities for candidacy. Based on recent experience with D-III to
SI upgrading, the typical scholarship would cover about 20 academic credits over about two se-
mesters, full-time in residential courses (tatap muka) or about three semesters part-time or through



Staff Appraisal Report                          11
distance education offered at UT. A total of 18,000 scholarships would be awarded (14,000 to
SMP teachers, 4,000 to SMA teachers, or about 5 percent of teachers with D-III qualification),
with preference to Type I awards. The recipients would be chosen from nominations by individual
LPTKs through annual requests from the Kanwil; the number of recipients would be proportional
to the estimated number of teachers with D-111 qualification. Tutors for the distance education pro-
gram would be provided by LPTKs at the tutorial centers of UT. Short, on-campus face-to-face
and laboratory sessions would be arranged annually for about 600 distance education trainees who
live in remote locations.
3.8       Learning materials development. To support the upgrading programs, current
materials on subject-specific pedagogy developed for the face-to-face and distance education
programs of UT would be updated. The updating would consist of: (a) compiling feedback on the
effectiveness of the materials, revision of content consistent with improvements in the Sl
curriculum (para. 3.3), correcting errors; (b) editing for clarity of writing and presentation; (c)
trying out the revised materials in UT classrooms and revising the materials further on the basis of
users' comments and observations; (d) designing, typesetting, and illustrating the new edition; and
(e) printing the new edition. About 100 modules and accompanying guides for self-study, which
are used in regular classroom courses or for distance learning, would be updated under the project.
UT teams consisting of specialists in subject-specific pedagogy, SMP or SMA teachers, and
textbook or module development consultants would undertake the updating.
3.9       Offices and conference rooms. Modest study accommodation for lecturers and
small, departmental conference rooms would be provided to the IKIP or STKIP departments
exhibiting urgent need for space. The office area would average 6 sq. m. per staff. Individual
offices may be allocated to senior staff (guru besar, lektor kepala), shared offices to four or
more junior staff. The conference room area would average 12 sq. m. The review and revision
of space-use plans, including the partitioning of underutilized buildings, would be preferred
over new construction. The project would provide offices for up to 3,600 faculty members
(about 36 percent of the total teaching staff of the 12 target institutions), the estimated number
of faculty members who would need office space. Conference rooms would be provided
where space is available near the departmental office concerned.
Component 2: Strengthening Linkages to Secondary School
(Base cost: US$5.4 million)
3.10   Supporting school linkages. To strengthen teaching practicum and linkages to sec-
ondary schools, a five-member team composed of three representatives from LPTKs with
relatively good teaching pract: ims and two members from other LPTKs would be estab-
lished with assistance from th 'LU. The team, in consultation with Kanwils and secondary
school teachers, would draft suggestions for improving the content of the student teaching
experience and for providing incentives for schools, teachers, and LPTK staff. Such incen-
tives which include suggestions for improving student teaching experiences would be shared
in regional meetings with representatives of all LPTKs, Kanwils, and secondary school teach-
ers.
3.11   A small-grant system would be established to finance activities specifically focused
on improving student teaching and field experiences for teacher trainees, including selection



12          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
and training of supervising teachers, early introduction of field experiences prior to student
teaching, and evaluation and grading of student teachers. To be eligible for the small grants,
proponents must show that the LPTK and schools jointly developed the proposal. One of the
grants would support the design of an assessment system for student teachers. The final prod-
uct would be a handbook for implementing the student teaching practicum, to be implemented
under normal and sustainable conditions, without project funding. At negotiations, the Gov-
ernment provided assurances that not later than July 1, 1996, the LPTK teaching practicum
team would be established and thereafter maintained until the completion of the project; not
later than July 31, 1997, the draft handbook for the implementation of the student teaching
practicum would be furnished to the Bank for comments; and, promptly thereafter, the hand-
book taking into account the comments of the Bank would be finalized [para. 6.1(b)].
3.12. To improve efficiency in the training system, DGHE would also take measures that
would optimize LPTK staff assignment and deployment and at the same time enhance LPTK
linkage to schools. The following would be considered: (a) teachers who entered LPTKs
without previous secondary teaching experience would be assigned to secondary schools
(manily SMP) or to the inservice training programs (D-III and SI upgrading) conducted by
the UT, as teachers and tutors, respectively (or for equivalent field service), for an appropriate
period of time; and (b) those teaches who have had the necessary experience would be as-
signed to SMPs or to the UT program, also for an appropriate period, to renew their secon-
dary school or equivalent experience. Other options for deployment to the field are the fol-
lowing: assignment as tutors in the open SMP (SMP terbuka), assignment as trainors in the
various inservice training programs, and recognizing the field service with academic equiva-
lence, an incentive for LPTK faculty. The measures could involve the provision of appropri-
ate training. The project would support DGHE efforts through the provision of local technical
assistance and coverage of regular administrative costs. At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that not later than March 31, 1997, an action plan for the deployment of
about 2,400 excess LPTK faculty members to secondary schools and to UT would be pre-
pared and furnished to the Bank for comments; such plan would include: proposed incentives,
requirements that faculty members who have not had previous experience teaching at secon-
dary school level complete a specified period of time teaching at secondary schools, require-
ments that all faculty members have periodically required teaching experience at the secon-
dary school level, and proposal to increase the average student/teacher ratio of the LPTKs to
12 students per teacher; and that promptly thereafter all measures required to carry out the
action plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, would be taken [para. 6.1(c)].
3.13     Partnerships with foreign institutions. As recommended by the project prepa-
ration study teams which visited teacher education institutions abroad, LPTKs would use
grant funds to form partnerships with foreign institutions which have well-developed, col-
laborative, field-based programs with schools. The partnership would include exchange of
staff and teachers consultancies as well as the interchange of ideas and interactions between
LPTKs and schools (Annex 8). The PIU would assist the LPTKs interested in establishing
formal agreements with foreign institutions. At negotiations, the Government provided assur-
ances that grants would be made in accordance with the procedures and on the conditions ac-
ceptable to the Bank [para. 6.1 (d)].



Staff Appraisal Report                          13
Component 3: Raising the Qualifications of Teacher Educators
(Base cost. US$32.4 million)
3.14      The Government has set the target of raising the qualification level of teaching
staff at tertiary level to 50 percent holding graduate degrees. To help teacher education
institutions achieve that target, the project would support around 1,600 fellowships at the
master's level and about 150 fellowships at the doctorate level. This would raise the number
of academic staff with graduate qualifications to about 6,800. Applications for fellowships
would be in the form of institutional proposals from all 31 participating LPTKs. The proposal
would include the list of candidates and detailed analysis of staff needs, showing, among
other things, staff-to-student and gender ratios and staff qualification levels (bachelor's,
master's, doctor's) for each teaching department; and justification for each fellowship, in
terms of the teaching and research needs of the appropriate department. For the doctorate
program, the research topic would be submitted with the proposal. The LPTKs would be
encouraged to include qualified women, particularly those with exemplary educational
leadership as candidates. During appraisal, the Government's criteria for the selection of
fellowship awardees were reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that fellowships would be provided in accordance with
selection criteria agreed with the Bank [para. 6.1 (e)].
3.15      Master's program. Of the 1,600 master's-level graduate fellowships, 1,450
would be undertaken at national institutions. The majority would focus on subject content.
Following the model established at Gadjah Mada University and Bandung Institute of
Technology for the science subjects, national universities were chosen as the target
institutions for master's programs in the nonscience subjects. The selection was based on an
assessment of the strength of the university department in particular subject areas. The
universities selected are: Indonesia (Ul), Pajajaran (UNPAD), Gajah Mada (UGM), Bogor
(IPB), Diponegoro (UNDIP), Airlangga (UNAIR), Brawijaya (UNIBRAW), Hasanuddin
(UNHAS), and Sumatera Utara (USU). The other 150 fellowships would be awarded, after
competition, to international institutions, for specialist study programs not available in
country or where capacity is limited. Participating LPTKs would be assisted in developing
procedures for selecting candidates and, if necessary, in providing remedial programs,
especially to improve the candidates' competency in English or other international languages.
3.16      Doctorate program. Many doctorate fellowships would involve the study of
subject-specific pedagogy (e.g., physics education and mathematics education) inasmuch as
most recruits would have already demonstrated their subject-content competence by complet-
ing an appropriate master's qualification. To bring advanced scholars into contact with the
international academic community, 100 of the 150 doctorate fellowships would be undertaken
overseas. Selection of overseas universities would be based primarily on the university's in-
ternational reputation in the respective field, but previous experience in running doctorate
programs for Indonesian students would also be considered. Some of the doctorate fellow-
ships would be on subject content rather than subject-specific pedagogy, for those institutions
preparing to offer noneducation degrees and transition to universities under a broader man-
date (para. 3.22). At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that all measures
would be taken to ensure that teaching staff, returning from overseas and local degree pro-
grams are offered teaching positions appropriate for the training received [para. 6. 1 (f)].



14          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
3.17      Refresher courses and faculty workshops. Building on the success of the Sec-
ond Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101 -IND), this project would support a similar interna-
tional professional development program in the form of short-term fellowships for teacher
educators. Participants would be selected on the basis of a written proposal for a study topic.
The study topics would be expected to relate directly to the courses taught by the participant
in his or her LPTK. About 150 participants would be selected from among faculty members
who already hold the S2 degree but do not qualify for (or for personal reasons unable to ac-
cept) a doctoral fellowship. A limited number of international universities would be selected
as host institutions, likely the same ones as for the doctorate fellowship program (para. 3.16).
Proposals involving the production of materials suitable for use in subject-specific pedagogy
courses at the LPTK would be preferred over those of a general nature. On their return from
study, participants would produce their final manuscript which would be reproduced in lim-
ited numbers and distributed to all LPTKs. The authors would be encouraged to make ar-
rangements on their own for the commercial publishing of their work. In addition, to upgrade
the subject-specific pedagogical knowledge of subject education lecturers, eight regional
workshops for lecturers in content-specific pedagogy for each major teaching subject would
be organized. These staff development workshops would be conducted by instructors with
S2 qualifications in subject-specific pedagogy.
Component 4: Building Educational Research Capacity
(Base cost: US$2.9 million)
3.18      The proposed project has a variety of activities (paras. 3.19-21) to create a syner-
gistic environment for a stronger research culture and a capacity for research both in the
LPTKs and the secondary schools. Secondary school teachers and LPTK faculty would
jointly conduct school-based action research to improve classroom teaching and learning
while LPTK faculty would conduct educational research to improve curriculum and instruc-
tion. The project would support both international and national Masters and Doctorate degree
candidates to return with research skills and contribute to a critical mass of scholars who will
be able to build and develop the research culture. The project would encourage the develop-
ment of data collection instruments and scientific research skills as student assessment is con-
ducted and monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation is conducted in the
LPTKs. The project supports funding for the publication of research at all levels. Publications
in national and international refereed journals are encouraged in the project to encourage bet-
ter quality in educational research.
3.19      Entry-level student assessment. A procedure would be developed for assessing
entry-level mastery of the core subjects: natural sciences, mathematics, social sciences,
Bahasa Indonesia, and English. The procedure would include tests of subject matter mastery
as well as guidelines for scoring and using the results, all of which would be developed and
tested at different LPTKs. When ready for wider use, they would be introduced to the other
LPTKs. The tests would be used at the beginning of the relevant introductory courses, to
identify students needing special help (including peer tutoring) and for making decisions on
how best to teach their introductory courses (para. 3.6). A short list of possible tests or
guideline developers would be compiled and criteria for selection specified. The terms of
reference would be sent to LPTKs; those institutions submitting promising preliminary



Staff Appraisal Report                          15
proposals would be invited to a training and proposal writing workshop. In selecting the final
proposals, preference would be given to those which include outstanding SMA teachers as
members of their test construction teams. An IKIP-based research management team (with
the PIU research coordinator and a representative of Balitbang Dikbud as members) would
plan the activity, manage the teams of test developers, standardize the assessment procedure
guidelines, and ensure high product quality and outcomes. At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that not later than October 1, 1996, the development of a test for new
undergraduate degree student assessment at LPTKs would commence; and not later than July
31, 1997, the testing of such students using such test would commence [para. 6.1(g)].
3.20      Quality assurance. The diagnostic tests to assess the entry-level subject
knowledge of new S 1 students would also be used as the tests to assess the exit-level
knowledge of all SI graduates, to ensure that the new teacher has mastered the content of the
subject he or she would teach in secondary school. In addition, an instrument to assess the
teaching skills of student teachers would be developed and used to assess the same sample of
student teachers during their student teaching experience. The development of an assessment
of teaching skills would be undertaken jointly by the LPTKs and a collaborating secondary
school and would be developed under the small grant program for strengthening the teaching
practicum and linkages to schools (para. 3.10). Together the two instruments would be used
to assess the quality of student output of LPTKs in the latter years of the project  At
negotiations it was agreed with the Government that not later than June 30, 1998, an action
plan for raising admission standards at selected IKIPs, based on the analysis of the testing of
new undergraduate degree students at LPTKs, would be furnished to the Bank for comments;
and thereafter, the action plan would be carried out, taking into account the comments of the
Bank on such [para. 6.1 (h)].
3.21      Research on the improvement of instruction. Grants would be provided in support
of proposals for studies related to the improvement of instruction in LPTKs. All proposals would
include a new course outline, instructional approaches, learning materials, or other kinds of
teaching resources that would be used to improve the quality of the researchers' own courses in
such ways as: (a) investigating common problems, errors, and misconceptions among SI
students; (b) studying ways of organizing and providing the laboratory component of a
science course; (c) developing and trying out innovative forms of student assessment;
(d) creating and trying out instructional materials; (e) experimenting with approaches to help
teachers become more research oriented; (f) developing and piloting new approaches to
foreign language instruction; and (g) trying out systems of student evaluation of LPTK
courses. About five study grants would be awarded each year. The typical study would be for 12-
18 months. Joint or collaborative studies would be encouraged. At the completion of each batch of
studies, regional seminars would be held where researchers can review each other's results and
products. A compilation of results would be published in special editions of educational journals.
This program would be managed by the IKIP-based research team. The grants would be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the conditions acceptable to the Bank.



16          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Component 5: Preparing for a Wider Mandate
(Base cost: US$1. I million)
3.22      Planning for a wider mandate. The 10 IKIPs would be asked to consider conver-
sion to universities. Two or three IKIPs would be selected as institutions which would be assisted
in developing S I content programs in preparation for a future move to university status. These two
or three institutions would be expected to begin the process of developing full-fledged subject-
content departments and degrees, which would continue beyond the implementation period of this
project. During the project period, the selected institutions would design more flexible programs to
allow graduates to prepare for nonteaching jobs in selected areas. Selection of the two or three in-
stitutions would be based on institutional capacity in terms of staffing (numbers of staff with S2 or
S3 qualifications), facilities, and experience in program implementation. The proposals from insti-
tutions would be verified through visitation and dialogue with appropriate Higher Education Con-
sortium which would make final recommendations with the DGHE. This activity would be consis-
tent with projects envisioned by the Government within the "new paradigm" for higher education
(para. 1.5), including a quality improvement project in undergraduate education being prepared for
Bank financing. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that not later than Oc-
tober 1, 1996, in accordance with selection criteria acceptable to the Bank, at least two IKIPs
for future conversion to university would be selected [para. 6.1 (i)].
3.23      Preparing for accreditation. The procedures and instrumentation for institu-
tional self-study and peer validation developed under the Second Teacher Training Project
(Loan 2101-IND) would be refined as models for continuous self-evaluation and improve-
ment for LPTKs. The procedures would also be consistent with the process of accreditation
being developed by the BAN. A task force, with members from both public and private
LPTKs, would coordinate the institutional self-study and peer validation activities which
would include promoting the program, refining the instruments and procedures for applica-
tion in public and private LPTKs, training in self-evaluation, and training evaluation report
writers and peer validators. It would also include holding periodic meetings with BAN. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that until completion of the project, a pol-
icy on zero growth in the appointment of faculty members to LPTKs would be maintained
except for fields of specialization in which there is a proven acute shortage of teachers; and
not later than October 1, 1996, the task force to coordinate the institutional self-study and
peer-evaluation activities would be established [para. 6.1 (j)].
3.24      Career planning. The proposed project would provide seed money to promote
the development of effective career information systems at the 10 IKIPs and two STKIPs.
The employment information gathered would be sensitive to the needs of women. Proposals
to the PIU from guidance-counseling faculty members in the LPTKs would include plans for
establishing links with major local private-sector firms. Preference would be given to pro-
posals which include plans for establishing a graduate follow-up system which includes in-
formation of particular interest to women. The systems to be developed would include both
teaching and nonteaching career opportunities. The information system would be made avail-
able to SI students early in their study programs to help them make informed choices about
the kinds of emphasis they would like to make in their studies.



Staff Appraisal Report                        17
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.25     The Director-General of Higher Education, assisted by the Director of Academic
Affairs, would have overall responsibility for the project. He would coordinate the activities
of the proposed project with those of the ongoing Primary School Teacher Development
Project (Loan 3496-IND) in respect to the involvement of LPTKs.
3.26     A Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) would be established in DGHE,
under the Government's project unit for teacher education development (PIMPRO) and paral-
lel to the PIU for the ongoing project (see Chart). The CPIU would be headed by a full-time
Project Manager who would be assisted by a Program Development Team, a Project Benefit
Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME) unit (para.3.27), and management consultants. Senior
staff specialists, including qualified women specialists, would cover the key project areas of
curriculum development, staff development and inservice training, research and management
development, and procurement. Responsible for overall coordination of project activities and
liaison with the Bank, the Project Manager would: monitor and coordinate disbursement of
the loan; provide semiannual progress reports to the Director-General and to the Bank; pro-
vide advice to Local Project Implementation Units (LPIUs) and project coordinators; submit
withdrawal applications to the Bank; arrange for timely technical audits and audits of project
accounts; participate in the management of local and international staff development pro-
grams and of project-supported studies and evaluations; and prepare the periodic, midterm,
and completion reports. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Central
and Local Project Implementation Units would be established with competent staff in ade-
quate numbers and maintained until the completion of the project [para 6.1 (k)].
3.27      The PBME unit would undertake the monitoring and formative evaluation of the
project in accordance with the agreed performance indicators (Annex 15) and the required
technical audits (para. 4.15). Additionally, the PBME would monitor closely the annual and
unit costs of the project, develop the methodology for measuring the magnitude of project
benefits, and during the project's midterm review, present an analysis of project costs and
benefits. The PBME would establish working relationships with the MOEC's national level
planning bureau and the research and development agency (Balitbang) or contract qualified
consultants to assist with monitoring and evaluation, especially in regard to the measurement
of project impact.
3.28     At each of the 12 IKIPs/STKIPs, LPIUs would be established. An LPIU project
officer would be appointed, provided with the necessary support staff, and given responsibil-
ity for managing project activities at his/her institution, according to rules and procedures
provided by the Project Manager. At each of the 19 FKIPs, the rector would designate a fac-
ulty dean as coordinator for the project. LPTK rectors and managers would be provided
training in institutional planning and organizational development, early during project imple-
mentation (project launch workshop) and at about midterm (preparation for REPELITA VII).
The LPIU project officer and the coordinator for the project in 19 FKIPs will also work with
the Coordination Forum (Annex 9).



18          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
3.29     Technical assistance. In all project components, the technical assistance re-
quirements would be satisfied largely through the provision of national consultants (485.8
staff months). International consultants (18 staff months) would be recruited only in areas in
which local expertise is limited or lacking altogether. International expert assistance is de-
signed as institution building rather than "substitutive" services directly rendered as part of
implementation activities. (The technical assistance summary is in Annex 10)
3.30     Status of project preparation. A complete inventory of project preparation
documents including lists of science equipment and library books, the criteria for the selection
of fellowship awardees, and the TORs for project studies have been prepared by the Govern-
ment and thorough discussions have been conducted with the Bank. Implementation sched-
ules for each project component as well as a detailed implementation schedule for start-up
operation have been satisfactorily prepared (para. 3.3), along with TORs for consultants to be
engaged during first year. The Project Manager and the four senior staff would be appointed
immediately following negotiations. The criteria for selection of awardees to the small re-
search grants of the project as well as payment and accounting procedures have been estab-
lished. Evidence of Governmental budgetary provision for activities to be implemented dur-
ing fiscal year 1996-97 and the report verifying the extent of renovation of faculty offices and
conference rooms at each teacher education institution were provided at negotiations.
3.31     Implementation schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a
period of five years, from April 1, 1996 to March 31, 2001. The detailed schedules of imple-
mentation of all project activities (Annex 11), costs by year and component (Annexes 12),
procurement (Annex 13), and disbursement (Annex 14) would serve as the basis for project
implementation and would be updated annually by the Project Manager of the CPIU in coop-
eration with the LPIU project officers and FKIP project coordinators. The closing date of the
project would be September 30, 2001.
3.32     Fund channeling. No new development budget item (DIP) would be created for
the project. Project funds for the CPIU office operation, for national workshops and interna-
tional fellowships, and for the procurement of books and journals and of limited quantities of
equipment, furniture and consumable materials, and first-year funds for domestic fellowships
and grants would be located in the DIP of the DGHE. Project funds for LPIU operating costs,
local training and workshops, local journals and library books, science equipment, furniture,
consumable materials, civil works, scholarships for the D-III upgrading program, and grants
from the second year onward would be located in the respective DIPs of the beneficiary
LPTK. Project funds for domestic fellowships for the S2 program from the second year on-
ward would be located in the DIP of the target university concerned.
D. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.33     Performance indicators. The project's performance indicators (Annex 15) were
discussed and agreed with the Government during negotiations. The implementation progress
of the project would be assessed through monitoring activities and formative evaluation using
the detailed performance indicators. Additionally, outcome indicators have been identified to
guide development impact evaluation. The PBME (para. 3.27) would undertake the monitor-



Staff Appraisal Report                         19
ing and formative evaluation as well as the required technical audits (para. 4.15). The above
indicators would also form the basis of technical supervision by the Bank. (The supervision
plan is summarized in Annex 16.)
3.34      At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that policies and procedures
adequate to enable monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis of the project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof would be maintained in accordance with indicators sat-
isfactory to the Bank and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; a report would be
prepared and furnished to the Bank on or about December 31, 1998 integrating the results of
the above monitoring and evaluation activities, the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the project during the period preceding the date of said report, and the measures recom-
mended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of the objec-
tives thereof during the period following such date; that by April 1, 1999, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report would be reviewed with the Bank; and that all measures re-
quired to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof would be taken, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and
the Bank views on the matter [para.6.1 (1)].
3.35      Progress reports. The Government agreed to prepare semiannual progress re-
ports and submit them to the Bank by March 31 and before October 1 of each year. Data from
the detailed performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation (Annex 15) would be in-
corporated in the progress report.
3.36      Annual and midterm reviews. The timing of the annual review would be coor-
dinated with the annual budget preparation cycle and would involve the rectors of the IKIPs
and STKIPs, deans of FKIPs, and officials of the DGHE. The midterm review and assess-
ment will be in 1999. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that not later
than October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 1997, and until the completion of the
project, a report on the implementation of the budget for the project for the past and current
fiscal year, together with the proposed budget for the following fiscal year would be fur-
nished to the Bank for comments; and thereafter, the proposed budget for the following fiscal
year would be revised, taking into account the Bank's comments [para. 6.1 (m)].
3.37      Impact on Poverty. Recent statistical information on age, income, place of resi-
dence, and school attendance show that in 1992, the largest number (from 75 to 90 percent)
of 13-year olds not enrolled in junior secondary schools belong in the lowest four income
deciles and live in rural areas. These populations are specially identified in the Government's
program of secondary education expansion through SMP kecils and SMP terbuka (para 1.2).
In turn, this project would improve the quality of teachers for the planned expansion. Project
interventions would therefore have a specially beneficial effect to students who are poor and
living in rural areas.
3.38      Impact on women. The proposed project actively seeks to increase the number of
qualified women in leadership positions in the education sector. Proficient female teachers
with good leadership skills would be given priority in the project's scholarship awards for
upgrading teachers to bachelor's degree level (para. 3.7). Project fellowships for LPTK
faculty to master's degree studies have been weighted in favor of Indonesian universities,



20            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
partly to enable women to compete for fellowships to in-country programs which are looked
upon as more socially acceptable for Indonesian women and their families. Project
fellowships for short-term refresher courses and those for doctorate studies would set aside
awards proportionate to the number of women in the teacher education faculties, to encourage
qualified women to play more strategic roles in teacher education and policy formulation
(para. 3.13). Priority in the award of research grants would also be given to female teacher
proponents, and school-based research on girls would be a required topic (paras. 3.16-17).
Women will be appointed to the project's management and monitoring units (para. 3.26).
3.39      Impact on the environment. The environmental impact of the proposed project
is expected to be neutral (environment category "C") as there would be only minor civil
works undertaken by the project. Where appropriate, environmental awareness would be in-
cluded in new curricula and instructional materials used in the teacher education programs.
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT
A. PROJECT CosTs
4.1       Summary of costs The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 87.1 million
equivalent (Rp. 195.6 billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Ta-
bles 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and by category of ex-
penditure, respectively. Detailed project costs by year are given in Annex 12.
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
% Total
Ro Billion          USS Million       % Foreign Base
Component                      Local ForeignTotal  Local Foreign Total   Exchange Costs
Improving Preservice and Inservice
Teacher Education             40.5  28.1  68.6   18.1   12.5   30.6    41        40
Strengthening Linkages to
Secondary Schools              7.4   4.8  12.2    3.3    2.1    5.4      39       7
Raising the Qualifications of
Teacher Education             32.6  40.3  72.9   14.5   17.9   32.4      55      42
Building Educational Research   5.2   1.3   6.5    2.3    .6    2.9    21          4
Capacity
Preparing for a Wider Mandate   1.5   0.9   2.4    .7    .4    1.1    38            1
Project Implementation          8.3   1.1   9.4    3.6    .6    4.2       12       5
Total Base Costs               95.5  76.5 172.0   42.5   34.1   76.6      44      100
Physical Contingencies          2.8   2.7   5.5    1.2    1.2    2.4      49       3
Price Contingencies            14.0   4.1  18.1    6.2    1.9    8.1      23       11
Total Costs /a                112.3  83.3 195.6   49.9   37.2   87.1      43      114
/a Includes identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent.



StaffAppraisal Report                                21
Table 4.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
% Total
Category of                       Ro Billion          US$ Million      % Foreign Base
Expenditure                  Local Foreign Total Local Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs
Civil works                    5.2    2.2   7.4   2.3   1.0   3.3         30        4
Equipment                      5.4   21.5  26.9   2.4   9.6  12.0         80       16
Furniture                      1.2    0.5   1.7   0.5   0.2   0.7         30        1
Consumable materials           0.8    0.1   0.9   0.3   0.1   0.4         10         I
Learning and teaching materials /a 2.6    1.1   3.7   1.2   0.5   1.7     30        2
Consultant services            1.7    0.8   2.5   0.8   0.3   1.1         27        1
Studies                        0.5    0.1   0.6   0.2   0.0   0.2          0        0
Scholarships                  17.6    2.0  19.6   7.8   0.9   8.7         10       11
International fellowships      4.1   37.1  41.2   1.8  16.5  18.3        90        24
Domestic fellowships          24.5    2.7  27.2  10.9   1.2  12.1         10       16
Grants                         7.5    5.7  13.2   3.3   2.6   5.9         50        8
Local training                16.5    1.8  18.3   7.4   0.8   8.2         10       11
Project operating expenses /b  7.9    0.9   8.8   3.6   0.4   4.0         10        5
Total Base Costs /c           95.5   76.5  172.0  42.5  34.1  76.6       44       100
Physical Contingencies         2.8    2.7   5.5   1.2   1.2   2.4         49        3
Price Contingencies           14.0    4.1  18.1   6.2   1.9   8.1        23        11
Total Costs /c               112.3   83.3  195.6  49.9  37.2  87.1        43      114
/a includes revisions, translations, printing, and dissemination.
/b includes PIU honoraria, travel expenses, office consumables, and other operational costs, e.g., meetings
and administrative support.
/c includes identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent.
4.2        Bases of cost estimates. Base costs are estimated using November 1995 prices.
Civil works costs are based on average square meter renovation costs for Government
buildings. Science and office equipment and furniture costs are based on current prices for
similar imported or locally available items. Learning and teaching materials costs are based
on similar items recently procured in other education projects in Indonesia. Costs for
international and domestic consultants are in line with recent education projects for
appropriately qualified experts. The unit cost for domestic fellowships is about US$4,000 per
staff-year for the master's degree programs and US$5,000 per staff-year for the doctorate



22           Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
programs. Overseas training and fellowships range from US$15,000 per staff-month for
short-term training to US$25,000 per staff-year for master's programs and US$30,000 per
staff-year for doctorate programs. Operational costs are consistent with current Government
figures and recent education projects. Costs for short-term, in-country training vary widely,
depending on the type of training and its location, and average between US$50-70 per
training day. Scholarship grants are about US$450 per staff-year. Research grants range from
US$45,000-100,000 per staff-year depending on the scope and the program. Costs for link
grants are set at US$3,300 per staff-year for those with domestic partnerships and
US$123,000 per staff-year for those with foreign institutions. Project operating costs have
been agreed between the Bank and the DGHE.
4.3       Contingency allowances. Physical contingencies (US$2.4 million) represent
3 percent and price contingencies (US$8.1 million) 11 percent of baseline costs. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been allowed. Price contingencies have been calculated at
6.0 percent per year for local costs and 2.6 percent per year for foreign costs. No price con-
tingencies have been allowed for link grants and research grants.
4.4       Foreign exchange costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$37.2 mil-
lion (representing about 43 percent of total project costs) based on the following percentages:
(i) overseas fellowships, 90 percent; (ii) equipment and international consultants, 80 percent;
(iii) link grants, 50 percent; (iv) civil works, furniture, research grants, and learning and
teaching materials, 30 percent; and (v) domestic consultants, domestic studies, scholarship
grants, consumable materials, local training, project operating costs, 10 percent.
4.5       Taxes and duties. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at US$1.7 million
(Rp. 3.9 billion) based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all goods and materials,
and it would be financed 100 percent by the Government of Indonesia.
B. FINANCING
4.6       Financing plan. The total project cost of US$87.1 million equivalent would be
financed by a proposed loan of US$60.4 million, covering about 70 percent of total project
costs. The Government would finance from its annual budget the remaining costs of US$26.7
million equivalent, approximately 30 percent of the total project cost including taxes.
4.7       Sustainability. The GOI's commitment to its nine-year basic education plan en-
sures necessary support to teacher training and for the project to sustain its impact. This has
been confirmed by the decision of MENPAN to allocate 25,000 new positions to MOEC for
hiring in academic year 1996-97 while in other government agencies the zero-growth policy
in hiring civil servants is strictly enforced. As secondary education expands in the future, the
sector's capacity to absorb new graduates from LPTKs will be continuously strengthened.
4.8       Successful implementation of the project would not only strengthen the quality of
the teacher education programs, but would also increase the cost-effectiveness and improve
the institutional capacity of the LPTKs. Under the project, quality assurance and accreditation
mechanisms would ensure that the LPTKs would continuously conduct self-examination and



Staff Appraisal Report                          23
strive for quality enhancement. The project would improve cost-effectiveness of the LPTKs
and make teacher education's link to secondary schools a permanent feature of the LPTKs
through practice teaching and school-based action research. Both features would further en-
hance the sustainability of the project impact.
Table 4.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government   IBRD         Total    IBRD Share
of Indonesia                            f/)
Civil works                              2.0          2.0        4.0          50
Equipment (except those under            5.0          12.0       17.0         70
grants), furniture, learning, teaching
and consumable materials
Consultant services and studies          0.5          1.1        1.6          70
Fellowship: international                0.0          19.9       19.9         100
domestic                      7.4          7.4        14.8         50
Scholarships                             3.0          7.0        10.0         70
Grants                                    1.8         4.1        5.9          70
Local training                           4.7          4.7        9.4          50
Project operating costs                   2.3         2.2        4.5          50
Total                                    26.7        60.4        87.1         70
4.9       To sustain the efforts under the project, additional recurrent funds will be required
to maintain science equipment and new facilities, continue linkages to secondary schools and
pay salary increases to teaching staff trained under the project. The amount required is esti-
mated to be about US$2.3 million, 3.5 percent of the recurrent expenditure of the
IKIPs/STKIPs, and even lower if the FKIPs are taken into account. Indeed this amount would
be more than offset by the amount of cost savings realized by raising student-teacher ratio to
12:1 (paras. 1.6 and 3.12), US$4.7 million per year by redeploying excess teaching staff and
one-time US$7.9 million by scaling down construction of office accommodations as a result
of reduced teaching staff (Annex 17). Therefore, the project is unlikely to cause a financial
burden to the Government.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.10      The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement of goods and services
under all project components. Unless otherwise noted, the procurement would be in accor-
dance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995), for the following:
(a)   Civil works (about US$4.0 million equivalent). There would be no major new
construction; most of the contracts would be for minor renovation or extensions.
Because of the geographical dispersion of project sites, contracts for civil works



24          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
would be awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB) proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for civil works valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million, may be
procured through a procedure similar to national shopping. Under this procedure,
the small works would be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic con-
tractors in response to a written invitation.
(b)   Equipment, furniture, consumable materials (US$15.0 million). The pro-
curement of science equipment and a small amount of consumable materials
would be handled by local education institutions where the goods are being de-
livered, after approval from the Basic Science Team, which serves as a technical
advisory board for science equipment. A small amount of office equipment and
consumable materials would be procured by the CPIU. All goods contract pack-
ages valued at or above US$200,000 would be awarded under international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Local manufacturers would be granted a 15
percent domestic margin of preference. Contract packages valued less than
US$200,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.6 million, would be awarded
through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contract packages valued at
less than US$50,000 and equipment of specialized nature for which NCB is not
practical, up to an aggregate limit of US$4.6 million including taxes, may be
purchased through prudent national shopping on the basis of three price quota-
tions.
(c)   Learning and teaching materials (US$2.0 million). This includes library books
and periodicals, research and study papers, manuals, guides produced and
printed locally, and small quantities of foreign journals and books. Printing
services would be procured through NCB while already printed books and
teaching materials would be procured through national shopping procedures or,
with the Bank's prior agreement, after negotiations, directly from publishers and
local distributors or book jobbers up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million.
(d)   Consultant services and studies (US$1.6 million). Consultants would be se-
lected and contracted in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consult-
ants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981).
(e)  International and domestic fellowships (US$34.7 million). Placement of can-
didates in foreign and domestic institutions would be made on the basis of the
relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs, and prior experience, ac-
cording to Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(f)   Grants (US$5.9 million). Grants would be awarded on a competitive procedure
acceptable to the Bank. Awards would be based on criteria for relevance of the
topic and qualifications of the parties selected, according to operating guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank. Small equipment items and consumables are allowed
through prudent shopping under the grants (paras. 3.11 and 3.13) operating
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.



Staff Appraisal Report                         25
(g)   Scholarships (US$10.0 million). Tuition scholarships to local universities or
other training institutions would be awarded to selected secondary school teach-
ers who have lower than SI qualifications by direct contracting in accordance
with the agreed criteria.
(h)   Local training (US$9.4 million). Contracts for training would be awarded to lo-
cal providers in accordance with the Government's administrative requirements
and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(i)   Project operating costs (US$4.5 million). Project operating expenses for the
central and local implementation units, including honoraria, travel allowances,
office consumables, and other operational costs, e.g., meetings and administra-
tive support would be met, following Government administrative procedures ac-
ceptable to the Bank.
4.11      Review by the Bank would be as follows:
(a)   All ICB procurement would be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Docu-
ments. The Bank would carry out prior review of : (i) standard bidding docu-
ments for civil works and goods contracts to be awarded under NCB procedures;
and (ii) letters of invitation for consultant services, to ascertain their conformity
with Bank guidelines. The approved documents would be used as master docu-
ments for all future bidding.
(b)   All civil works contracts valued at or over US$500,000, if any, and goods con-
tracts valued at or over US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by the
Bank, whereas all other contracts for civil works and goods would be subject to
random postreview. However, the first contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and the first contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, would be subject to prior review.
Roughly 20 percent of civil works contracts, and 25 percent of goods contracts
are likely to be covered by prior review. The IKIPs which would be handling the
civil works contracting have previous experience with two Bank-financed proj-
ects; the DGHE office, where the CPIU would be located, has been implement-
ing several Bank-financed projects. Based on such experiences with civil works
contracting and the mandatory screening of The Basic Science Team for science
equipment procurement, these prior review percentages are sufficient. In addi-
tion, standard bidding documents would be used for both ICB and NCB proce-
dures, and regular random post review would be carried out by the World Bank
Resident Mission and supervision missions.
(c)   Consultant contracts valued at or over US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other consultant
contracts would be subject to random post review. However, all consultants'
terms of references and sole-source selection of consulting firms would be sub-
ject to prior review.
(d)   Fellowships would be subject to random post-review by the Bank.



26            Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
(e)   Annual training plans for each year would be included in the annual report for
discussion with the Bank.
Table 4.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement                        Total Cost
Procedures                        including
Category of Expenditure           ICB    NCB   Other/a                    Contingencies
Civil works                                 2.8       1.2                      4.0
(1.4)    (0.6)                    (2.0)
Equipment, furniture, and consumables  2.8  7.6       4.6 /c                  15.0
(2.1)    (5.3)    (3.2)                   (10.6)
Learning and teaching materials              1.2      0.8                      2.0
(0.9)    (0.5)                    (1.4)
Consultant services and studies                       1.6                      1.6
(1.1)                    (1.1)
Fellowships                                          34.7                     34.7
(27.3)                   (27.3)
Grants                                                5.9                      5.9
(4.1)                    (4.1)
Scholarships                                         10.0                     10.0
(7.0)                    (7.0)
Local training                                        9.4                      9.4
(4.7)                    (4.7)
Project operating costs /b                            4.5                      4.5
(2.2)                    (2.2)
Total                               2.8    11.6      72.7                     87.1
(2.1)    (7.6)   (50.7)                   (60.4)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
/a     Includes shopping, direct contracting, hiring of consultants, and administrative expenditures.
/b     Includes PIU staff honoraria, travel expenses, office consumables, and other operating expenses
(e.g. meetings and administrative support).
/c     Includes PIU offices, small quantities of equipment, furniture, and consumables, but excludes
small equipment and consumables under grants.



Staff Appraisal Report                        27
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.12     The proposed loan of US$60.4 million equivalent would be disbursed over a pe-
riod of about five years (Annex 14). The project is expected to be completed by March 31,
2001, and the Loan would be closed six months later on September 30, 2001. The disburse-
ment schedule is based on the implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for edu-
cation projects in Indonesia. Disbursement is accelerated somewhat to reflect the establish-
ment of the Special Account and the timely implementation history of DGHE. Disbursements
estimated for the first semester of FY96 are based on the proposed initial deposit into the
project Special Account. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Civil works                    US$ 1,800,000      50% of total expenditures
Equipment (except under grants),  US$ 10,800,000  100% of foreign
furniture, and learning, teaching,                expenditures
and consumable materials                          100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
65% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
Consultant services and        US$  900,000       70% of total expenditures
studies
International fellowships      US$17,800,000      100% of total expenditures
Domestic fellowships           US$ 6,700,000      50% of total expenditures
Scholarships                   US$ 6,300,000      70% of total expenditures
Grants                         US$ 3,800,000      70% of grant amount
Local training                 US$ 4,300,000      50% of total expenditures
Project operating costs        US$ 2,000,000      50% of total expenditures
Unallocated                    US$ 6,000,000
4.13     Disbursements from the loan for the following contracts would be made against
full documentation: (i) civil works contracts valued at or more than US$500,000 and the first
contract valued at or more than US$100,000; (ii) goods contracts valued at or more than
US$200,000 and the first contract valued at or more than US$50,000; and (iii) consultant
services contracts with individual consultants valued at or more than US$50,000 and consult-
ing firm contracts valued at or more than US$100,000. All other disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure (SOE) for which relevant documents would be re-
tained by DGHE and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. To



28          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in an amount of US$4.0 million would be estab-
lished at Bank Indonesia. This Special Account would be held in the name of the Directorate-
General of Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special Ac-
count would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the
Special Account would be made on a monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit
has been used, whichever occurs first.
E. ACCOUNTS, AUDITS AND REPORTS
4.14     The PIU would prepare the financial report. The financial statements and financial
report for each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
including a separate audit opinion on SOE expenditures. Certified copies of the financial re-
port on the project for each Government fiscal year, together with the auditors' statements,
would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than six months after the
end of each Government fiscal year starting March 31, 1997. DGHE would also monitor pro-
gress in project implementation each semester and submit reports to the Bank by March 31
and September 30 of each year. Within six months after the completion of disbursement,
DGHE would submit an implementation completion report (ICR) to the Bank.
4.15     DGHE has the primary responsibility to monitor all project activities and routine
monitoring would be done through annual reviews. The PBME unit (para 3.26) would con-
duct the technical audit of key project activities. The above audits would cover activities in
progress and post review of completed actions to examine whether implementation of the
various project components are technically appropriate and to recommend corrective meas-
ures, if necessary. Documents, studies, and data sets as well as an inventory of the Govern-
ment's project preparation documents are listed in Annex 18. At negotiations, the Govern-
ment provided assurances that technical audits of project implementation would be carried
out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, in each fiscal year during implementation of the
project and a copy of such audit would be furnished to the Bank for comments as soon as
available but not later than six months after the end of each such year [para. 6.1 (n)).
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    Research from developing countries shows a positive correlation between high quality
teachers and high student achievement. The correlation between teacher quality and student
achievement is even higher for under-achieving students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
As Indonesia increases its intake of secondary school students through the new nine-year uni-
versal basic education policy, a socially and economically diverse body of students will enter
secondary schools. Higher quality teachers would be in place through this project to meet the
educational challenges they pose. Studies from Latin America show substantial rates of return
to investments in raising the quality of teachers because of subsequent higher earnings of
their students. Evidence of the benefits of teacher development are clearly confirmed in inter-
national and Indonesian educational research as presented above. Systems of monitoring and



Staff Appraisal Report                          29
evaluation would ensure that the project interventions translate into increased competence to
teach for LPTK graduates and improved learning for secondary school students. Country data
are currently insufficient for a sensitive cost-benefit analysis. However, the project will col-
lect data to assess benefits (including project impact and cost-effectiveness) through the Proj-
ect Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME).
5.2    This project specifically benefits an estimated new 25,000 secondary school teachers
per year, and approximately two million secondary school students. Project interventions will
benefit the professional capacity of teacher educators, leading to improvements in educational
quality as well as student achievement. The LPTK institutions would benefit through im-
provements in curriculum, linkages with schools, staff development, facilities, and research
capacity. Project interventions will benefit the professional capacity of teacher educators,
leading to improvements in educational quality as well as student achievement. The following
activities will contribute directly to these outcomes: in-country and overseas fellowships, im-
proved preservice and inservice programs, linking teacher training institutions to secondary
schools, and building research capacity. The project will also benefit the student staff ratio in
the public teacher education institutions, contributing to internal efficiencies in per-pupil
spending.
5.3    The project would improve cost-effectiveness of LPTKs by raising the student-
teacher ratio of the LPTKs to 12:1 (paras. 1.6 and 3.12), saving US$ 4.7 million annually by
reassigning, on a rotational basis, about 2,400 excess teaching staff to secondary schools and
UT every year and a one-time US$7.9 million by scaling down construction of office accom-
modations. This measure would also help LPTK teaching staff renew their secondary school
teaching experience . The project will meet the external demand for teachers created as a re-
sult of the expansion in junior secondary enrollment. Project interventions will enhance
training, to enable graduates to find employment in secondary schools or elsewhere, through
tutoring during formal coursework, mentoring during practice teaching, and making informa-
tion on teacher supply and demand available to their own institution, schools, and the provin-
cial teacher recruitment authorities.
B. RISKS
5.4    The proposed project is subject to several risks. First are risks related to the complex
institutional environment in which the project would be mounted. Effective coordination
among numerous Government institutions would be required for optimal project implementa-
tion, including supportive efforts by the Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS (maintaining
expected Government expenditure levels), the DGPSE (providing access to secondary
schools as training sites and cooperating teacher-mentors), the State Ministry for Administra-
tive Reform (maintaining the expected recruitment levels for new teachers), and the DGHE
(strengthening management support for teacher education and instituting effective systems for
public-private institutional accreditation). The Coordination Forum (Annex 9) which includes
representation of the above agencies has been revitalized to enhance a close coordination. Fi-
nally, there is the risk that the attention to project targets would overshadow the more impor-
tant quality improvement objectives of the project. Comprehensive monitoring mechanism



30           Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
would be instituted and the project would be reviewed frequently so that the qualitative fea-
tures are not only maintained but emphasized.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1   At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) Not later than July 1, 1996, the curriculum teams for English, social sciences, and
subject-specific pedagogy would be established; each such team would be estab-
lished in an IKIP selected on the basis of its strong English, social sciences or
subject-specific pedagogy program, respectively; and thereafter such teams would
be maintained until the completion of the project (para. 3.3);
(b) Not later than July 1, 1996, the LPTK teaching practicum team would be estab-
lished and thereafter maintained until the completion of the project; not later than
July 31, 1997, the draft handbook for the implementation of the student teaching
practicum would be furnished to the Bank for comments; and, promptly thereaf-
ter, the handbook would be finalized, taking into account the comments of the
Bank (para. 3.1 1);
(c) Not later than March 31, 1997, an action plan for the deployment of about 2,400
excess LPTK faculty members to secondary schools and to UT would be prepared
and furnished to the Bank for comments; such plan would include: proposed in-
centives, requirements that faculty members who have not had previous experi-
ence teaching at secondary school level complete a specified period of time
teaching at secondary schools, requirements that all faculty members have peri-
odically required teaching experience at the secondary school level, and proposal
to increase the average student/teacher ratio of the LPTKs to 12 students per
teacher; and that promptly thereafter all measures required to carry out the action
plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, would be taken (para.
3.12);
(d) Grants would be made in accordance with the procedures and on the conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.13);
(e) Fellowships would be provided in accordance with selection criteria agreed with
the Bank (para. 3.14);
(f) All measures would be taken to ensure that teaching staff, returning from overseas
and local degree programs are offered teaching positions appropriate for the
training received (para. 3.16);



StaffAppraisal Report                          31
(g)  Not later than October 1, 1996, the development of a test for new undergraduate
degree student assessment at LPTKs would commence; and not later than July 31,
1997, the testing of such students using such test would commence (para. 3.19);
(h)  Not later than June 30, 1998, an action plan for raising admission standards at se-
lected IKIPs, based on the analysis of the testing of new undergraduate degree
students at LPTKs, would be furnished to the Bank for comments; and thereafter,
the action plan would be carried out, taking into account the comments of the
Bank on such plan (para. 3.20);
(i)  Not later than October 1, 1996, in accordance with selection criteria acceptable to
the Bank, at least two IKIPs would be selected for future conversion to university
would be selected (para. 3.22);
(j) Until completion of the project, a policy on zero growth in the appointment of
faculty members to LPTKs would be maintained except for fields of specializa-
tion in which there is a proven acute shortage of teachers; and not later than Octo-
ber 1, 1996, the task force to coordinate the institutional self-study and peer-
evaluation activities would be established (para. 3.23);
(k) The Central and Local Project Implementation Units would be established with
competent staff in adequate numbers and maintained until the completion of the
project (para. 3.26).
(I)  Policies and procedures adequate to enable monitoring and evaluation on an ongo-
ing basis of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof would be
maintained in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank and under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; a report would be prepared and furnished to
the Bank on or about December 31, 1998 integrating the results of the above
monitoring and evaluation activities, the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the project during the period preceding the date of said report, and the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; that by April
1, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report would be reviewed
with the Bank; and that all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof would be taken, based
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on
the matter (para. 3.34);
(m) Not later than October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 1997, and until the
completion of the project, a report on the implementation of the budget for the
project for the past and current fiscal year, together with the proposed budget for
the following fiscal year would be furnished to the Bank for comments; and
thereafter, the proposed budget for the following fiscal year would be revised,
taking into account the Bank's comments (para. 3.36);



32          Indonesia Secondary School Teacher Development Project
(n) Technical audits of project implementation would be carried out, in a manner ac-
ceptable to the Bank, in each fiscal year during implementation of the project and
a copy of such audit would be furnished to the Bank for comments as soon as
available but not later than six months after the end of each such year (para. 4.15).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$ 60.4 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia, for a term of 20
years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Qualifications of Public Secondary School Teachers, 1992-93
Senior High School (SMA)                   Junior High School (SMP)
PROVINCE            <=D1    D2    D3    Si  =>S2 TOTAL <=SMA             Di    D2    D3    S1  =>S2   TOTAL
DKI Jakarta Raya      97    57   762  2,078   223   3,217    565   5,672   792   815  1,607   170    9,621
Jawa Barat           200    71  4,598  1,784   436   7,089   2,529  13,521  6,300  2,200  6,500   381   33,431
Jawa Tengah          102   229  2,552  2,618   327   5,828   1,125  13,280  7,665  2,480 10,145   545   35,240
Dl Yogyakarta         55    48   295   785   113   1,296    608   2,455  1,039   256  1,295    41    5,694
Jawa Timur           186   100  3,522  2,544   506   6,858   1,650  10,577  5,881  3,286  9,167   799   31,360
Dl Aceh               81    36  1,220  1,095   126   2,558    158   3,757  1,656   725  2,381       82    8,759
Sumatera Utara        90   186  2,535  1,991    155   4,957    405   7,678  3,312  1,075  4,387   105   16,962
Sumatera Barat        23   127  1,790  1,069   167   3,176    539   4,304  2,976  1,385  4,361      58   13,623
Riau                  72    63  1,109   501    67   1,812    181   2,150  1,826   260  2,086    19    6,522
Jambi                 30    95   446   234    55    860    116   2,132   540    53   593    18    3,452
Sumatera Selatan     120    85   663   509    60   1,437    621   3,268  1,518   425  1,943    83    7,858
Bengkulu              14    46   473   171    37    741    139    971   587   100   687    11    2,495
Lampung               41    97   550   456   107   1,251        305   3,349  1,042   151  1,193    62    6,102
Kaimantan Barat      152    62   486   200    36    936    195   1,750  1,039   137  1,176    13    4,310
Kalimantan Tengah     90   133   444    93        7    767    171    929   608   205   813           5    2,731
Kafmantan Selatan     65    74   287   191    62    679          68   1,913  1,092   334  1,426    25    4,858
KahmantanTimu         56    24   442   207    78    807    151   2,215   360    35   395    24    3,180
Sulawesi Utara        91      8   429   654    80   1,262    138   3,787   829    22   851    11    5,638
Sulawesi Tengah       23      5   500   276   116    920    209   1,361   694   226   920    17    3,427
Sulawesi Selatan     122    51   588  1,271   225   2,257    871   5,887  2,288   640  2,928   198   12,812
Sulawesi Tenggara    184    61   259   119    63    686    101   f,585   651   106   757    25    3,225
Maklku               364   127   503   262    45   1,301         55   2,621    647    20   667       5    4,015
Bani                  80    17   460   624    39   1,220    520   2,506  1,378   160  1,538    52    6,154
Nusa Tenggara Barat    51    16   756   341    47   1,211    289   1,957   974   338  1,312    26    4,896
Nusa Tenggara Timur    15     4   436   321    15    791    208   1,992   756   149   905            4    4,014
Irian Jaya           101    18   265   154    43    581    183    925   672   195   867              7    2,849
Timorlimur             0    17   198    82        0    297       48    750   168    77   245         3    1,291
TOTAL               2,505  1,857 26,568 20,630  3,235  54,795  12,148 103,292 47,290 15,855 63,145  2,789  244,519
%                    4.6   3.4  48.5  37.6   5.9  100.0    5.0   42.2  19.3   6.5  25.8   1.1    100.0
Source: Statistik Persekolahan 1992-93. Pusat Informatika, MOEC.                                                            W



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Profile of Public IKIPs and STKIPs
VARtABLE         I KIP        IKIP       IKIP       KIP      IKIP       IKIP        IKIP      IP         STKIP       IKIP      IKIP      STKIP
MEDAN    PADANG    JAKARTA   BANDUNG  SEMARANG  yoGyAKARTA   MALANG   SURABAYA   SINGARAJA    MANADO    UJUNG    GORONTALO
PANDANG
1. Year founded              1950      1954       1963      1954      1965        1963       1954      1964       1993        1955      1965       1963
2. Location                   city      City      city      City       Cty        City       City      City       Town        City       City     Town
Distance from Jakarta    1,411      953         0        180       485         565       882        793       1,193       2,193     1,422      1,942
(km)
3. Programs offerOd          SO,S1    S0,S1,S2   SO,S1,S2    SO,S1,    SO,S1    S0,S1,S2    SO,S1,    S0,51.      SO,S1       SOSI      SO,S1     S0,S1
S2,S3                           S2 S3
4. intakeSi 11995)   _             _                        .._ _
Number of applicants     6,191     6,792      7,628     11,076    5,033       9,249      4,788     4736        451         601      7,703       350
Of which Math / Science    2,115   1,886      2,177      3,120    1,569       2,677      1,504     1,428       109         189      1,699       115
Number admitted            444       232        260       255       290        344        361       320         41          62        335        18
Of which Social Science  4,076     4,906      5,451I    7,956     3,464       6,572      3,284     3,308       342         412      6,004       235
Number admitted            905       668       776        850       398        946        650       749        111          76       805         49
seats available:
Math I science         444       232        260       255       290        344        380        320        64         160        380       120     4Q
Social Science       1,157       799        920       880       420        975        650        841       189         390        835       240
Seat
Available/Application    20.99     12.30      11.94      8.17     18.48       12.85      25.27     22.41      58.72       84.66     22.37     104.35
Ratio:                                                                                                                                                   t.
Math / Science
Social Science       28.39     16.29      16.88     11.06     12.12       14-84      19.79     25.42      55-26       94.66     13 91     10213
5. Quality of lntake
(1995)                                                                       I                                            *
S1 entrance scores in
National University
Selection Test (max.            *
1000):
Mean score               486.12 1 511.06  1 564.67  1 574.02 1 536.89  1  572.66   1 512.04 1 520.32  1  472.85   1 437.42  1 448.99 1  431.69
Minimum score 4a04.51   6425.44              468.34      9 503.81 | 455.88 7  500.35    385.56    430.51      395.55     363.61 8   337.14 | 353.55 .
Maximum score         |640.98    686.77      751.12    775.03 1 678.31  1  708.74      685.80    689.76      727.67      554.16     608.02 r515.11 
E            ~~~~(1994)               ls         n
Faculty members    |     1,021  |9D1     884  |     1249             |77|828              8879| 335    | 933                         940        210
of Which Professors   |     29  |    18   |     49   | 30                       20         21175                                      3
Administrative Staff  | 5C0|   636   | 637   | 994  |49 |                      n.a    | 686  | 65 |             115   | 68 t 653  | na



IVARIABLE              ff   IKIP      IKIP   |   IKIP   |   IKIP  I    IKIP   |     IKIP        IKIP   |    IKIP   |   STKIP   |    IKIP   I   IKIP  |   STKIP
| ~~~~~~~~~MEDAN    PADANG    JAKARTA  |BANDUNG   S EMARANG   YOGYAKARTA    MALANG    SURAB3AYA |SINGARAJA    MANADO                        UJUNG    GORONTALO
I    ....   =   I                                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANDANG.
(Oct. 1994)  B    
Si degree hOlderS       1   643       559         503       692        547          466          490        543         212         623        635         151
Master's degree hOlderS1   199        134         159       249        117          149          173        112          65         141        134           5
Doctorate degree             18        40          53        66         23           52           46         30          10          35         44           2
holcders
Currently upgrading:     E        
S2                    142       149        115        180        100          146          139         80          40         117         110        52
S3                     19        19         54         62         10           15           39         26           8          17         17          0
8.  Staff-Student ratio
No. of 51 students         7,247     6,237      8,079      8,547      7,355        8,755        6,751      5,388       1,828       3,846      5,958        766
(1994)                      ,                                                                                         (1993)
No. of S5 graduates per    1,114       984       3,353     1,181        648         577         1,429      1,914        281         494         449      62 t1993)
year (1994)              _
Total No. of students      9,000     7,814      10,658     14,049     9,231        9,399        8,376      6,277       2,398       4,872      7,110       865
(SO, SI, S2, 53)                                                                                                               I                                    i_
Staff-student ratio         8.81      8.67       12.06     11.25      11.58        11.35        9.44        7.94       7.16         5.22       7.56       4.12      t
9.  Quality of research               1        m                m m                                               .      * x
(1993/1994).....                                                                                      .                                .      ...,.    ,
No.of Competitive            2                     5         5          3            1            3          5           2           1          2           -
research accepted and
funded                                                                                                                          _ _l
No.of Women Studies                               1          1_                      1           2           -          0                       1           -
No. of Interdiciplinary                8          7          15         1            8           16         15          13           6          10         1
research
10. AnnualBudget(in         s                                                                               . !  .                             I E
millions rupiah)        j         i          t
1994/1995                                    I .  ;                                           ....__.                                       ./      ._
DIP (Capital cost)      |  4314       34        14,489      5712          5233     4080         4305       5290        1,843       5,139       3,381      097
Routine budget and self-  13,061     13,989     12,995     15,998     11,494      13,449       11,695     13,063       4,521       9,798      10,433      4,22
generated income        |          _                                                                                            _________
OPF(Maintenance and        1,099     1 161       1 497      1 973      1,394        1,285       1,287      1 236        398         894        1,014      455
Operation cost)
11. Academic reputation       PhysiCal  Education.            Math and    Social     Educational   Language    Math      Linkage to   Guidance &
educ.    Adminis.              science    Sciences    Sciences     center &   education    schools    Counseling
educ.                               Moral
education
I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



36                                            Annex 3: Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Profile of Public FKIPs
VARIABLE           SYIAH      RIAU     JAMBI   SRIWIJAYA   BENGKULU   LAMPUNG    SEBELAS   JEMBER   TANJUN   PALANG
KUALA                                                               MARET                0 PLUA   KARAYA
1. Yearfounded          1961       1962      1963       1960        1982         1965        1976       1964      1963      1963
2. Location             Town       Town      Town       Town        Town         Town        Town       Town      Town       Town
Distance from        1,843      948       615        433         556          205         465        614       734        913
Jakarta fk_                                                                          .      _ 
3. Program offered    So, Si      So, Si    So, Si      So, Si      So, Si       So, Si So S               Si    So, Si    So, Si
4. Intake-S-..-.-.-,i      *                -- rriU.                         - i *i-  
..  _                                   _._  _    ___  ._._.  .  _.   _._. _. . _,, _._._._._E _._., _ _ _, _. _._ _. _ _ ._ ...  .  .  ..._._._
Number of applicants    1,763  2,351      946       2,241        n.a.        2,527       5,291       1,435     590        471
Of which Math        602        777       128        707          n.a.        717         1,725      549        57        133
Scence
Number admitted      135        190       40         144         n.a.         130         260        174        40        53
Of which Social      1,153     1,574      818       1,534         770        1,810       3,566       886       533        338
Sciences                                                                       _
Nunber admiitted     254        190       300        435         150          291         476        195       129        97
Seats avalable:
Math / Sc.nce      140        190       40         144       _0             130         260        180        62       160
Socal Sonces       326        315       120        171         150          291         926        210       176       170
Seat
AvailableJApplication
Rabo:               23.26      24.45     31,25      20.37         0          18.13        15.07     32.79    108.77    120.30
Math / Science                            I_I
ScoalScefies      28 27      20 01     14 67      11 15       19.48        16.08        349       23.70     33.02     50 30
5. Quality of Intake     |                         . *                                        : *     --   _
51 entrance scores                    I         t *
in National University J    |         |
Selection Test (mna                   i
1000):           IIi..~ --~- 
Mean score        487.35  | 492.39 | 488.99 |  555.42         508.70       535.20      609.86     644.56 | 498.67    453.60
Minimum score     403.80    358.30 | 407.06 |  443.97         439.37       439.14      476.44     430.96    416.76    356.49
Maximum score     708 R3    7n2 S  I f41 Q  I  77fi f5   | 73 78          737 7i1    778 55    733 84    728 47    586 13
6. Staff                         -.      I 
Csobmposition j              L::L -.                                           -
Faculty members      377        218   |  162   f   238    |    204            249         437        163       226       247
otw ichProfessors     0          3         0          3           0            1           0          2         7          0
7. Faculty                                 A      ..[             - ..7         .
Qualifications                                              J
(OcLlSt4)  i. -. ...... ........~~~~~~~~~i....~........  .......
Si degree holders    298        184       137        172         135          192         345        139       169       220
Master's degree       72        25        24         56           67           56          81         23        52        27
holders                               I
Doctorate degree      8          9         1         10    |      2            1     |    1           1
holders .i   |. ,,_.   . . _.--*-      
8. Staff-student    j---7F..
Ratio (193)      .L...                         -                       - L.:.
No.ofSo& Si         3,203      4,252     2205       2723         925         2721        6,858       1,794     1,462     2,003
students (1994)  |1
No,ofSo&S       ||  634 |  636            616     432            299          669         919        435       201       322
graduates per year   80       1 3    13             1            4           1            1          1         6 
Staff-student ratio  ||8.50   1 19.23J |_13.61 J    11.30   |   4.53    | 10.88   | 15.69   | 10.87  L6.27   |81



37
Annex 3. Page 2 of 2
(Proflie, contfinued)
VARIABLE              LAM8UNG   1MULAW           TADLAK          HALU  1M ARMI NUSA                     PATImMURA  ICENDRA-
MANGKURAT jARMAN  j  AUAO                  OLEO      MATRA          CENDANA  j                    WASIHI         U.T
i.  Yearfounded               1960          1962          1981         1981        1962           1962          1956          1962         1984
2.  Location                  Town          Town           Palu        Town        Town           Town          Town          Town          city
Distance from              937          1,348         1,593        1,762       1,060         1,916          2,382         3,767          0
Jakarta (kmi)                                                             I___
3.  Program offered          So, Si        So, Si          Si         So, Si       So, Si        So, Si         So, Si        So, Si      So, Si
4.    Intake  Si  (1095)                                                                                                                   --___ _ _ __ _ _
Number of applicants      1,315          686          545         3,287         943           n.a.          1,63          1,04         2,8
Of which Math /            521           205           255          874         191           n.a.           566           292          n.a.
Science__                 _  _  _ __                                                         _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _    _ _  _
Number admitted            117           81            55          260          40             97             86           50          1,0
Of which Social            794           481          290         2,413         752           485           1,065          752          n.a.
Sciences                                          _ _ _ _ _ _                              _ _ _ _ _
Number admitted            196           145           52          372          102            52            127           60           583
Seats available:
MathltScien,ce          117           130           195          260          40            226           100            60          n.a.
Socal Sciences          227           145           211          372         102            212           200            90          n.a
Seat
Available/Application
Ratio:                    22.46         63.41        76.47        29.75        20.94         73.62          17.67         20.55         n.a.
Math   I Science    __ _  _ _  _   __  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _    __ _  _ _  _   _  _ _  _  _
SocaliSciences         28 59         3015          72 76        72 76       14431878                                   11 97         na
5.  Quality of Intake                                   .     -
SI entrance scores 
in National University 
Selection Test (max
woo0):                                             ...                                                        -     -      -
Mean score        f 498.67          500.97        428.74    [432.26         487.3         453.49        451.95        449.19         n.a.
Minimum score         387.80        433.22        310.67     1 328.88       378.63   J 352.82            334.73       365'32         n.a.
Maximum score    I 6 10             682 76        586 60    I 625 23        723 58   I614 74             682 89       610 67         na
Composition                                                      
Faculty members    ii      245      [ 220             216         -192          131           273            173           224         566
of which, Professors        9             0      j      0            1           0              2             2             3            6
7.  Faculty               _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _  
(O ct.  1094)           _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _
Master's degree            3231                        15           2526                       52            39            39           28
Sdereholders               251420                                ___             0             1              3             8            2
Doold ter  dere5                                        1            01                         4             1             2           15
holders                                           -     -    -     -                                ~-                              
8.  Staff-student                                                                                           ____
Ratio (199U)        II- --_____--
No. of So &Si        I 2,405         1-i,902'    2,685)           3,482        1,474         4,123          2,480         1,836      296,979
students   (1994/      _ _ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
No. of So &Si             266           459           381          545          89            195            45            302        35,594
Staff-student ratio        9.47     1 8.65    1       12.43       18.04        11.25         15.00          14.17     1   8.09         n.a



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Profile of Private LPTKs, 1994
-o
1  Region I  Region II   Region If Region IV Region V  Region VI Region VIl    Region Vill    Region IX     Region X      Region Xi   Region XII
|   st Aceh    Sumatera Sel.   JakarlaJaa  Bara   Yogya.  Jawa Teng. Jawa Tim.    Bali        Sutawesi Ut.   Sumatera Bar Kahmantan Tim.   Maluku   TOTAL
Sumatera Ut.   Lampung                                                       Nusa Teng. Barat  Sulawesi Teng.   Riau    Kahmantan Teng Inan Jaya
Bengkulu                                                     Nusa Teng. Timur Sutawesi Tengg.    Jambi    Kalimantan Sel.
Timor Timur    Sulawesi Sel               Katimantan Bar
No of institutions      21            12          8        22        8         15        59            17              25            12            1 0          2        211
STKIPs               7             7          4        8         1         1         25             6              17             6             3           1         86
IKIPs               2             0           1        0         5         4         10            3               0             0             1            0        26
FKIPs               12            5           3       14         2        10         24            8               8             6             6            1        99
No of faculties         21            5           7        14       14         23        40            21               8            6             9            1        169
No. of deparlments      86            34         24        58       27         56        252           62              60            38            20           6        723
No. of programs         143           46         29        94       37         78        421           80              78            65            24           8       1,103
No of students ('94)
No. of applicants      2,182         1,999      2,309    4,839     2,395     5,409     11,111         2,273           2,200      ,  2,097          969         247      38,030
So program :          201           191         190     1,164      318       374        460          553              205          488             0           0       4,144        4
Si program:           1,982         1.808      2,119    3,675     2,077     5,035     10.651         1,720           1,995         1,609         969          247      33,887
No. admitted:          1,527         1,758      1,620    4,040     1.837     4.846      7,833         1,754           2,104         1,480          826         232      29,857       |
So program:           192           136         136     1,006     255        266       352           531             205           110            0           0        3,189       A
SI program:          1,335         1,622       1,484    3,034     1,582     4,580     7,481         1.223           1,899         1,370          826         232      26.668
Adm.Iapplic. ratio     70.0%        87.9%       70.2%    83.5%     76.7%     89.6%      70.5%        77.2%            95.6%         70.6%        85.2%        93.9%     80 9%
Enrollment ('94):     12,417        10,583      11.758   21,966    11,511    23,781    53,106         9,289          13,729         6,996         6,160        819     182,115
So program:          1,175          503        1,234    4,529     1,109      835      5,248         2,031            845           918            0           0       18,427
S1 program:          11,242        10,080      9,524    16,437    10,402    22,946    47,858        7.258           12.884        6,078         6,160        819      161,688
Noofgraduates('94)     1,915         1,184       1,040    3,274    1,198     3,263      11.917        1,264           1,551         1,225          757          87      28,675
So program:          480            24         288      665        0         52       1,241         435              63           316            0            0       3,564
S1 program:          1,435         1,160       752     2.5a9     1,198     3,211      9,676         829             1,488         909           757          87      24,091
No.ot fac. members     1,272         834         739     2,455      565       1,278     4,196         1.221           1.564          724           486          80      15,414
Permanent.            643           383         199     1,011      308       727       1,977         573              557          223            73           52      6,726
Honowary:             629           451         540     1,444      257       551       2,219         648             987           501           413          28       8.668
Student-staf ratio     9.76          12.69      14.56     8.54     20.37      18.61     12.66         7.59            8.78          9.66          12 67       10.24     12.18



Annex S                                                             39
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Academic Qualifications of Public LPTK Teaching Staff, 1994
Teacher                   Maths & Science (MIPA) Faculty / Department                                    All faculties I departmecnts
Education                     Qualif'ication       Currently         Percent                       Qualification          Currently         Percent
InstlFac.         Total        ( completed)        Upgrading         S2 + S3        Total          (completed)           Upgrading          S2 + S3
_IKP__KIP         Staf   -SI1        S2    53      S2     S3      Now       Fut      Stf       Si       S2      S3       S2       53     Now       Fut
Medan               216    99        51       1    60    5        26%      5 40/9     1021      643   199         [7      143      19    23%      37%
Padang              159       88    33        3     34       1   23%       45%         901      542     151       40      149      19    23%      40%
Jakarta             109       48    25        7    24        5    34%      56%         884      519     159       37      115      54    28%      41%
Bandung             191       80    46       10    41       14    37%      44%        1249      698    249        60      1S0      62    25%      44%
Semarang            162       92    38        5    26        1   27%       43%         797      547     117       23      100      10   19%       31%
Yogya               138       31      53      7    46        I   44%       78%         828      428     187       52      146      15    31%      49%
Malang              189       53    64       10     58       4    41%      72%         887      457     204       48      139      39    33%      48%
Sumabaya            145       65    42        6    24        8'  39%       55%         791      543     112       30       80      26    21%      31%
ST.Sing             100       56      17      2     23      2    21%       44%/        333      210      65       10       40       8    25%      37%
Manado              125       73     38       4      9       1   34%       42%         933      620     141       35      117      20    21%      34%
UjPand              174       97    36        7    32        2    26%      44%         940      635     134       44      110      17    21%      32%
ST.Gor               87       64       3      0    20        0    3%       26%         210      151       S        2       52       0     3%      28%
IKIP&STKIP         1795      846   446       62   397      44      28      53%       9774    5993    1723        398    1371   289   22           39
Urnsyiah            107       66      14    0       25      2    15%       38%         377     248       62        8       50       9  21%        34%
Sriwijaya            65       32    21        2      8       2    38%      51%         238      151      53       10       21       3    28%      37%
Bengkulu             84       28      33      1     16       6    48%      67%         204       80      67        2       42      13    40%      61%
Riau                 62       47      9       2      4       0    18%      24%         218      159      25        9       25       0    1 60%    27%
Lampung              5 1      28       8      0     14       i    18%      45%         249      145      SO        I       47       6    23%      42%
Jambi                65       36       8      I    19        I    15%      45%         162       96      1 7        1      41       7    15%      41%
Solo                 75       33      16      3     18       5    32%      56%1        437     272       60       II1      73      21    21%      38%
Jember               67       42      II1     0     12       2    19%      37%         163      122      21         1      17       2    15%      25%
LamMang              66       42       5      0     19       0    8%       36%         245      167      30        8       38       2    16%      32%
Palangk              66       5 1      5      0      9       1    9%       23%         247      195      23        0       25       4    11%      21%
Mulawar              75       48      9       I    1 7      0    13%       36%         220      152      30        5       32       I    16%      31%
Halu0l               81       59      9       0     12      2    14%       28%         192      133      23        0       34       2    13%      31%
Tadul               105       94       3      0      8       0    3%       10%         216      176      13         1      24       2     7%       19%
Nuscen               54       36       5      0     13       0    9%       33%         273      172      40        4       47      12    21%      38%
Mataramn             50        19      5      1    22        3    18%      62%         131       67      18        2       37       8    21%      50%
TanjungPr            38       2 1      6      1    I11       1    21%      50%         226      134      47        5       35       5    25%      400%
Pattim               46       30       8      0      7       1    17%      23%         173      116      39         I      1 7      0  23%        33%
Cendrawasih          63       38      o1      0     14       I    16       37%         224      153      38        2       30       1    18%      32%
FKIP               1220      750  185   12  248            28      16      39%       49 2738  656                 71      635   98        17   135%
All LPTK         3108   159663164 5                                                 133 971   8088  2293         4       20      384      20      37%
Source: Project Proposal, MOEC.



40                             Annex 6. Page 1 of 8
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Economic Analysis
This annex, following the East Asia and Pacific Region's checklist on economic
analysis of education projects, summarizes the arguments and evidence on the
effectiveness and sustainability of the proposed project under the following topics:
Indonesia's education priorities, analysis of project alternatives, the project's fiscal impact,
economic benefit, and institutional soundness. Paragraph numbers and annexes cited here
refer to those of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
Are the Government's priorities in education appropriate?
To improve its competitiveness in international markets, principally in low-cost,
labor-intensive industries, Indonesia must be able to draw upon a well-educated and easily
trainable work force. Educational policy for the past two decades has therefore focused on
the provision of basic education at the primary level in order to upgrade the skills of the
general population and make them more employable. The result has been a remarkable,
near-universal enrollment in primary schools. In 1994, the Government started
implementing obligatory basic education from six to nine years in order to raise
educational levels needed for the training of a more highly skilled workforce demanded by
the high growth economy.
Indonesia's policies which emphasize basic education are well crafted, and the
country's objectives are in accord with international research evidence on the benefits of
basic education and its ability to contribute to economic development. Stronger grounding
in educational fundamentals also enables individuals to continue to develop their own
skills, productive capacities, attitudes and to pursue better career options in an evolving
labor market. Basic education also benefits society through indirect effects on health,
fertility, and life expectancy'. As a result of the decision to expand basic education, junior
secondary enrollment is expected to expand significantly, and more teachers will be
needed.
'Psacharopoulos, G., and M. Woodhall (1985), Educationfor Development: An Analysis of investment
Choices (New York: Oxford University Press).



Annex 6: Page 2 of 8                             41
What are the International experiences in teacher development?
A World Bank review of 32 studies2 concluded that trained teachers make a significant
difference in student achievement in developing countries. Among the teacher-related
factors which positively correlated with student achievement are teacher qualifications,
teachers' classroom experience, years of education, and teachers' level of skill or
knowledge. One Indonesian research3 cited in the review found that upgrading teachers'
skills and knowledge leads to both significant and cost-effective improvements in student
outcomes. Research on public secondary school teachers in neighboring Thailand and
Malaysia also shows positive correlation between high quality teachers and high student
achievement. The correlation is even higher for underachieving students from
disadvantaged backgrounds4. In addition, studies from Latin America show substantial
returns to investments in raising the quality of teachers in terms of student's length of
schooling completed and subsequent higher earnings5.
Teacher education as a critical alternative. When governments stretch their
scarce educational resources to cover growing student enrollments, per-pupil spending
shrinks, impairing the quality of education. Over the last 30 years, enrollment has
expanded more rapidly than investments in education. Under these circumstances, a well-
trained teacher can be the most valuable and often most cost-effective investment in the
educational system that a government can make6. Compared to all other school inputs
such as classroom  space, textbooks, equipment, and teaching materials, teachers are
unique because of their ability to maximize the potential of other inputs and utilize them
actively to enhance students' learning'.
Complementarity of teacher education with other educational inputs. The
other principal inputs for expanding secondary education and improving quality (facilities,
textbooks, and materials) are being provided. Student places for the nine-year basic
education program would be provided through the series of province-based secondary
2Husen, T., L.J. Saha, and R. Noonan (1978), Teacher Training and Student Achievement in Less
Developed Countries (World Bank Staff Working Paper 310, Washington, D.C.).
3Nasoetion, N., A. Djalil, 1. Musa, and S. Soelistyo (1976), The Development of Education Evaluation
Models in Indonesia (Paris: International Institute for Educational Planning).
4Farrell. J. and J.B. Oliveira, eds. (1993), Teachers in Developing Countries: Improving Effectiveness and
Managing Costs (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank).
5Behrman, J.R., and N. Birdsall (1983), "The Quality of Schooling: The Standard Focus on Quantity Alone
is Misleading," American Economic Review 73 (5): 92846.
6Avalos, B., and W. Haddad (1981). A Review of Teacher Effectiveness Research in Africa, India, Latin
America, Middle East, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. Synthesis ofResults (Ottawa, Canada: International
Developmnent Research Center).
7Farrell, J.P., and J. B. Oliveira, eds. (1993), Teachers in Developing Countries: Improving Effectiveness
and Managing Costs (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank).



42                          Annex 6: Page 3 of 8
education projects currently being developed also with Bank assistance. Textbooks and
learning materials, the input consistently associated with improvements in student
achievement, are being provided through the Book and Reading Development Project
(Loan No. 3887-IND). This project, which would provide training for teachers, would
complete the provision system. Research shows that while certain individual inputs raise
achievement better than others, where resources are sufficient, optimal results are brought
about by the combined effects of educational inputs'.
What investment alternatives were considered, and what criteria were used to choose
some and reject others?
Interventions selected for the project were reviewed and assessed in terms of their
efficiency and effectiveness based on international and Indonesian evidence on teacher
quality as described below:
Investing in private teacher education institutions. Although there are 211 private
teacher education institutions in Indonesia that produce about 29,000 secondary school
teachers yearly, the training in those institutions is considered far inferior to the quality
levels achieved by the public sector institutions. To upgrade instructional capability to the
levels that would enable those institutions to prepare teachers for the expanded nine-year
basic education would require financial, technical, and development time investments
unacceptable to the Government which aims at reaching their expansion targets in 10-15
years. In contrast, the 31 public institutions (12 stand-alone teacher education institutes
and 19 education faculties or colleges affiliated with public universities) which produce
about 20,000 teachers yearly, have better facilities, teachers and resources as well as
higher standards of admission and self-assessment. They are therefore in a much better
position to undertake the curricular, management, and other institutional 'te-tooling" to
improve teacher training for the Government's planned expansion. In fact, selected public
institutions are already in the process of institutional improvement: reforms in science and
mathematics teaching are being initiated from Bandung (para. 3.3), and a new preservice
education program, mostly at public training institutions for primary school teachers, has
been developed by the Bank-financed Primary School Teacher Development Project (Loan
No. 3496-IND). Therefore, the alternative to fund private LPTKs was rejected for the
current project.
Attracting quality candidates to teaching. To keep up with the rapid expansion of
basic education, many developing countries, particularly in Asia, have 'hnass-produced"
teachers, frequently sacrificing quality of training to obtain the needed numbers of teachers
in abbreviated training time. The historic high regard in Asia for teaching has thus been
eroded, partly as a result of the 'Watering down" of teacher training standards, mostly by
more lucrative opportunities in the productive sectors. Teaching jobs around the world are
failing to attract the more academically qualified students not only because of the low
8Heyneman, S.P., and D. Jamison (1980), "Student Learniing in Uganda: Textbook Availability and Other
Factors," Comparative Education Review 24 (2): 206-220.



Annex 6: Page 4 of 8                               43
social status of the profession but also because of unattractive entry level salaries and poor
working conditions especially in the rural areas. In China and the Philippines, where
national entrance examinations are required for admission to university, lower scoring
examinees tend to apply to teachers colleges, where they are more likely to be accepted.
Similar behavior has been observed in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Thailand,
Malaysia, and Korea. Interventions for the improvement of quality of training would seem
sensible, in order to attract bright students to the profession. Larger issues of
compensation and working conditions, admission standards into LPTKs were reviewed
and assessed during project preparation as follows.
Raising teachers' salaries. In developed countries such as the United States, it is
argued that salaries are the most important determinant of teacher quality. Salary
schedules are designed to reward years of formal education and degrees earned,
experience and certification. For financially strapped developing countries, however,
significantly raising teacher salaries relative to those of other professions is not a real
option9. It was assessed during preparation that for Indonesia which tie the teacher salary
scale to certain grades of the uniform salary schedule of the civil service, it would be
unrealistic (at this time) to expect that teachers' salaries can be improved without
disrupting those of the rest of the national civil service system.
Provide inservice training only. An option for raising teacher quality in countries
where salary scales for teachers are inseparable from those of civil servants is to recruit
from the less well-educated and invest more in inservice training, using a variety of
programs including on-campus training at teacher training institutions, distance education,
seminars and programs to upgrade the quality of existing teachers. It was judged that this
option, while cost-effective for the short-term, sacrifices the long-term sustainability of
quality teacher training particularly during a national expansion of secondary education.
Including preservice programs (more efficiently provided) and inservice programs in the
project interventions would be a more cost-effective choice for Indonesia's current stage
in secondary school teacher development.
Raising admission requirements. One way to improve the quality of teachers is to
simply raise the academic requirements for entrance to the teacher training institutions.
This option needs to be approached with caution. Leaders in Korea, a country with a
highly competitive system of entrance examinations, are beginning to question whether
theirs is really the best method of recruiting teachers, since tests fail to detect important
aspects of teacher aptitude such as personality and commitment to a teaching career.
Thailand has established a three-part entrance test that covers subject knowledge, attitude
toward the teaching profession, and general knowledge. Malaysia has a two-part
examination that screens candidates through a scholastic aptitude test and requires the
successful takers to undergo an interview. In Indonesia, the entrance examination scores
9 Lockheed, M.E., and A. Vespoor, eds. (1994), Improving Primary Education in Developing Countries
(Washington, D.C.: The World Bank).



Annex 6: Page 5 of 8
44
of applicants to teacher training are so low (betraying inadequate preparation at secondary
school) that simply raising the cut-off mark for admission would merely eliminate most
applicants who are otherwise trainable. Nevertheless, a few public teacher education
institutions are sought by students for excellence in selected fields, so that competition for
admission to those institutions has become very keen. The project supports the alternative
of raising admission standards incrementally, improving the quality of student intake over
time, without risking any rash elimination of potential pools of candidates.
Relating classroom experience to teacher training. Research suggests that the
length of teaching experience is a key teacher characteristic determining student
achievement. Indonesia teacher training candidates need more practical teaching
experiences with mentor classroom teachers, and less lecturing by faculty who have had
little or no classroom teaching experience. Research in the Middle East and in parts of
Africa have found that experienced teachers are more participatory and less authoritarian
in their teaching practices. Other research show that student teachers come closer to the
patterns of teachers with more experience in the classrooms at exit compared to student
teachers who practice with less experienced teachers. The optimum level of classroom
experience for teacher trainers ranges from 10 to 20 years"0. This option has been selected
for the proposed project as part of improving preservice teacher education.
Are the selected alternatives sensitive to effective teaching practices?
The proposed project invests in a new mix of teacher education inputs, including
those critical to the training of teachers for the expanded nine-year basic education
program: curriculum development and strengthening the teacher education institution's
linkage to secondary schools. Among the Govern ment's innovative approaches to increase
the participation rate in secondary education are the SMP kecil (very small junior
secondary schools established to serve remote rural areas) and SMP terbuka (junior
secondary instruction through distance education to reach those living in areas where the
population is sparse and widely dispersed). Teaching for these types of schools requires
teacher flexibility with regard to subject matter assignments and instructional techniques,
areas not adequately covered in the current teacher education curriculum which prescribes
training along rigid, disciplinary lines. The proposed project would develop curricula in
subject areas and in pedagogy that would be responsive to the new educational demands.
At the same time, the proposed project would assist the teacher education
institution to create and strengthen linkages with secondary schools. The faculty of the
teacher education institution would collaborate with secondary school teachers in
conducting research about secondary education in their own schools, send student-
teachers to secondary schools for teaching practicum, and the faculty themselves would
periodically renew their teaching experience in secondary schools. These activities would
enable the 'teacher producers" to 'know their market," i.e., become rooted in the realities
10 Lockheed, M.E., and A. Vespoor, eds. (1994).



Annex 6. Page 6 of 8                            45
and be responsive to the needs of secondary schools in their area, for which they prepare
teachers.
Is the investmenr fiscally wise? Are its fiscal implications bearable?
Efficiency gains and sustainability. The Government has decided to raise the
student-staff ratio at public teacher education institutions from its current average of
9.9:1 to the university average of 12:1. Full implementation of this policy would free up
to 2,400 teacher educators who, on a rotational basis, would be asked to return to
secondary schools as teachers or to serve as tutors in the field for the various distance
education courses of the Open University (UT). The savings to the national education
system for not having to hire additional secondary school teachers or distance education
tutors is estimated at US$4.7 million per year. In addition, with the project, the rotation of
excess teaching staff would preclude the need for additional office and conference space at
teacher education institutions, the provision of which would cost about US$7.9 million.
The savings would be greater because corresponding maintenance and operating costs
would also be reduced. On the other hand, the incremental recurrent costs (salaries for
new staff, operating expenditures, and building and equipment maintenance) to be
generated by the project is about US$2.3 million, equivalent to only 3.5 percent of the
annual recurrent budget of the education ministry's higher education directorate-general.
(The assumptions and calculations of the above are discussed in (Annex 17.)
Cost recovery. The fee policy for the teacher training system is sound. Teacher
education institutions charge tuition and other fees and are able to generate modest
incomes from consulting and similar service contracts. Public teacher education
institutions are able to recover about 13 percent of their total annual budget, only slightly
lower than the 17 percent average recovery of all higher education institutions in
Indonesia. As a percentage of annual total recurrent expenditure, however, the fees
charged by public teacher education institutions averaged 19 percent over the last five
years (1991-95), the same level estimated for all of higher education in 1994.
What economic returns can be expectedfrom this project?
Cost-benefit analysis. Evidence of the benefits of teacher development are clearly
confirmed in international and Indonesian educational research as presented above. Lack
of Indonesian data has prohibited a cost-benefit analysis to date; however, the project will
collect data during its life to assess benefits (including project impact and cost-
effectiveness) through the Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME), a subunit
of the central Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Rates of return. Indonesia is joining East Asia's high-growth countries that invest
heavily in both primary and secondary education in an effort to enhance the quality of
labor. While circumstances in each country differ, the general pattern has been that in
economies with less than universal basic education, rates of return are greatest for primary
education, followed by secondary education. The social rates of return to secondary



46                              Annex 6: Page 7 of 8
schools in Asia is approximately 13 percent"1. Other analyses"2 show that economies with
universal primary education that have undergone rapid growth tend to have a higher rate
of return to secondary than to primary education. The social rates of return to junior
secondary education in Indonesia have been estimated at 11-14 percent in urban areas,
higher than the benchmark of 10 percent return for capital investment. These rates for
urban areas imply that the returns in rural areas may be even higher'3. During the course
of implementation of the proposed project, data will be collected for calculating the rates
of return to teacher education.
Internal efficiency. Project interventions will raise the professional capacity of
teacher educators, leading to improvements in educational quality as well as student
achievement. The following activities will contribute directly to these outcomes: in-
country and overseas fellowships, improved preservice and inservice prograrns, linking
teacher training institutions to secondary schools, and building research capacity. These
interventions are positively correlated with improved student performance'4. The project
will also raise the student staff ratio in the public teacher education institutions,
contributing to internal efficiencies in per-pupil spending.
External efficiency. The project will meet the external demand for teachers created
as a result of the expansion in junior secondary enrollment. Project interventions will
enhance training, to enable graduates to find employment in secondary schools or
elsewhere, through tutoring during formal coursework, mentoring during practice
teaching, and making infornation on teacher supply and demand available to their own
institution, schools, and the provincial teacher recruitment authorities.
Are the project's institutional arrangements sound?
The Government's higher education directorate-general of the education ministry
has the requisite management experience, having managed many education development
projects, including 10 World Bank-supported projects in postsecondary education, four of
them in teacher education, since 1976. Currently, there are three Bank-financed
postsecondary projects under active implementation, including the Primary School
Teacher Development Project (Loan No. 3496-IND). For the proposed project, a central
" The World Bank (1995), Priorities and Strategiesfor Education: A World Bank Review (Washington
D.C.: The World Bank).
12 Balbin, J. (1991), "Returns to Education: Further Analysis of Cross-Country Data," Economics of
Education Review 10(3):253-58; Schultz, T.P. (1993), "Investments in Schooling and Health of Women and Men:
Quantities and Return," Journal ofHuman Resources 28 (4): 694-734; _  (1994), "Integrated Approaches to Human
Resource Development" (Human Resources Development and Operations Policy Vice Presidency), The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
13 "Indonesia Secondary Education: East Java/NTT Project" (1995), Staff Appraisal Report (white cover,
December 18, 1995), The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
14 Heyman S.P., J.P. Farrell, and M.A. Sepulveda-Stuardo (198 1),"Textbooks and Achievement in
Developing Countries: What We Know", Journal ofCurriculum Studies 13 (3): 277-46.



Anex 6: Page 8 of 8                          47
project implementation unit would be established at the directorate-general, and small
local implementation units would be organized at the public teacher education
institutions (paras. 3.25-27).
To address the issue of teacher demand and supply determination, which has
serious implications on teacher education, recruitment, and deployment, the Govemment
has established a Coordinating Forum that would bring together the various
governmental authorities involved, principally the directorates-general of primary and
secondary and of higher education. A Joint Secretariat will be established with an action
plan for ensuring that secondary schools, teacher education institutions, provincial-level
education authorities are brought into the dialogue (Annex 9).
Other analyses
The proposed project's consistency with the Country Assistance Strategy for
Indonesia is discussed in (paras. 2.6-7). The project's potential for poverty alleviation is
discussed in (para. 3.37); gender sensitivity in para. 3.38; and neutral impact on the
environment in (para. 3.39). Performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation have
been developed in detail (Annex 15).



48                                               Annex 7
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
BANK GROUP-FINANCED EDUCATION AND TRANING PROJECTS
Loan/   Year of  Year of                                                                  Amount
Credit    Board    Actual                                                            (less cancellations) a
Numnber  Approval  Closing  Projects                                        Agency        IBRD
IDA
--- US$ million --
Projects with MOEC
219      1970      1976  First Education                                 MOEC lb                  4.5
387      1973      1981   Third Education                               MOEC                     13.5
1237      1976      1981   Fourth Education                              MOEC           24.1
1433      1977      1984  First Teacher Training                         MOEC           17.8
1486      1977      1984  Nonfornal education                            MOEC            8.3
869      1978      1985  Polytechnic                                    MOEC                     49.0
1904      1980      1987  First University Development                   MOEC           43.1
2101      1982      1990  Second Teacher Training                        MOEC           79.1
2102      1982      1988  Second Textbook                                MOEC           24.9
2290      1983      1990  Second Polytechnic                             MOEC          106.0
2355      1983      1990  Second Nonformal Education                      MOEC          43.0
2472      1984      1990  Secondary Education and Mgmt Training          MOEC           76.6
2547      1985      1993  Second University Development                   MOEC         147.0
2944      1988      1993  Higher Education Development                    MOEC         140.3
3158      1990         --  Second Secondary Education and Mgmt           MOEC          154.2
3311      1991         -   Second Higher Education Development           MOEC          150.0
3431      1991         --  Third Nonformal Education                     MOEC           59.6
3448      1992         --  Priniary Education Quality Improvement        MOEC           37.0
3496      1992         --  Primary School Teacher Development            MOEC           36.6
3754      1994         --  University Research for Graduate Education    MOEC           58.9
3887      1995         --  Book and Reading Development                  MOEC          132.5
Subtotal of Projects with MOEC                             1339.0      67.0
Projects with Other Ministries
288      1972      1978  Second Education (Agriculture Training)        MOA Ig                    6.3
1692      1979      1985   Second Agricultural Training                  MOA            34.7
2258      1983      1988  Public Works Manpower Development               MOPW Id       29.8
2341      1983      1992  Third Agricultural Training                     MOA           62.9
2599      1985      1993   Science and Technology Training               MORT Ic        93.0
2705      1986      1995   Manpower Development and Training             MOM Lf         58.1
2940      1988      1995   Accountancy Development                       MOF Ig        113.0
2992      1988         -   Tree Crop Human Resource Development          MOA            18.4
3112      1988         -   Public Works nstitution Dev. & Training       MOPW           36.1
3134      1989         --  Professional Human Resources Development      BAPPENAS  117.5
BPPT lh, MOF
3721      1994         --  Skills Development                            MOM            27.7
3825    1995          --  Professional Human Resources Development II   BAPPENAS   69.0
BPPT, MOF
Subtotal of Projects with Other Ministries                 660.2        6.3
GRAND TOTAL                                                l22Z   1h
La  bThe amount less cancellation" applies only to the projects which were closed (with 'Year of Actual Closing').
The amount for other ongoing projects was taken from the Staff Appraisal Reports.
Lb MOEC - Ministry of Education and Culture.
IL  MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture.               if  MOM   - Ministry of Manpower.
Id  MOPW - Ministry of Public Works.               Lg  MOF  - Ministry of Finance.
Lc  MORT - Ministry of Research and Technology.   lh  BPPT  - Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology.



Annex 8: Page ) of 4                           49
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Strengthening Linkages Between LPTKs and Secondary Schools
1.    The study teams which visited teacher education institutions abroad in 1995 found
that there are strong links between the institutions and the schools. Teacher educators
routinely have had teaching experience in schools prior to teaching at the university level
and in some instances are required to update their experience every five years by spending
as much as a year as a classroom teacher. The pre-service teacher education programs
include early field-based experiences connected to courses throughout the pre-service
student's program and it is not unusual for a teacher candidate to spend several months in
school settings prior to the student teaching experience (which is at least one semester
full-time in length and in some cases a fuill year).
2.    Often teacher education programs are collaboratively designed by school teachers
and college faculty with each group having equal input into the teacher education
curriculum. School teachers may teach courses in the preservice teacher education
program as well as in the in-service programs. In turn, teacher educators are active in the
schools as researchers, in the in-service teacher education programs, and in the
professional deveiopment activities for school renewal.
3.    In Indonesia such exchanges between schools and LPTKs are rare. For the
improvement of the secondary schools themselves as well as the improvement of the
teacher education programs at LPTKs, it is important that supportive, cooperative
relationships be developed between the schools and LPTKs. Activities supported under
the project would include: (i) a study team to design a program for implementing a one
semester student teaching experience in LPTKs, (ii) small grants to support partnerships
between LPTKs and schools, (iii) grants to support school-based action research, and (iv)
support for establishing partnerships between an LPTK and a foreign institution which has
a strong field-based teacher education program.
Study Team
4.    The PIU would identify a five (5) member team composed of three representatives
from an LPTK which has a strong student teaching program and two (2) members from
two other LPTKs.
5.    The study team would be responsible for formulating concrete suggestions for a
practical plan to implement a one semester, full-time student teaching experience in
LPTKs. The study team would address issues such as the number of classes the student
teachers would be responsible for teaching each day, how the student teacher is oriented



50                         Annex 8: Page 2 of 4
to the school, the selection of cooperating teachers, incentives for cooperating teachers,
number of formal observations by LPTK supervisor, incentives for LPTK staff, student
teaching experience at two levels (one at SMP and one at SMA), and guidelines for
conferences among the student teacher, cooperating teacher and LPTK supervisor. This is
not an inclusive or exclusive list of suggestions. The main objective of the study team is to
come up with a concrete plan for a full-time, one semester student teaching experience
that can be implemented under normal and sustainable conditions independent of outside
funding sources.
6.    To accomplish the task, the study team would establish a meeting plan and work
schedule which would include visits to schools to obtain input from administrators and
teachers. They would also be responsible for sharing the plan with LPTKs, Kanwils, and
teachers at regional meetings to obtain feedback for revision. The final product would be
a handbook for the student teaching experience which would be distributed to all LPTKs.
Suggested Activities:
*  correspondence to the LPTKs and Kanwils from appropriate Directorate describing
the purpose of the study team
v  selection of team members
*  field visits to LPTKs, Kanwils, SMPs, and SMAs for input
*  drafting handbook
*  regional meetings to share draft
X  revision for field trials
  field trials for handbook
*  regional meetings to share feedback on trial handbook
*  revision and dissemination of handbook
Small Grants to Facilitate LPTK-School Linkages
7.    Grant funds would be available to 31 LPTKs and partnership schools based on a
collaborative proposal submitted by the partnership. The grants would facilitate the
implementation of programs which focus specifically on improving field-based experiences
for pre-service teachers conducted by LPTKs and schools. Proposals would be expected
to include, but not be limited to, activities such as: how to select and train supervising
teachers; systems for field experiences prior to student teaching; evaluating and grading
student teachers; and, developing conferencing skills. A required criteria for a funded
proposal is parity between the LPTK and the school(s). The Director General of Higher
Education and the Director General of Primary and Secondary Education (the Director of
General Secondary School in particular), would invite all LPTKs and Kanwils to explore
developing LPTK-school linkages and potential LPTK-school partnerships.
Representatives from the potential partnerships would be invited to a proposal writing
workshop. Proposals would be developed by the partnerships and submitted to the PIU
for selection. An important aspect of successful proposals would be mechanisms for how
the partnership would be sustained after grant funds have expired. At least one of the 31



Annex 8: Page 3 of4                              51
grant proposals (more than one if appropriate) would be specifically for developing a valid
evaluation system for the assessment of student teaching performance which would be
used under Quality Assurances (Component 4).
Suggested Activities:
*  DGHE shares small grant plan with DGPSE
*  invitation to LPTKs, Kanwils, schools to form partnerships
*  small funds (from grant funds) provided to LPTKs/Kanwils to explore partnerships
*  partnerships invited to proposal workshop
*  proposal workshop
*  proposal development by LPTK-school partnership
*  proposals submitted to PIU for selection
*  grants awarded to partnerships
*  monitoring and evaluation
*  publication/sharing of results
School-based Action Research
8.    There has been little school-based action research collaboration between LPTK
faculty and secondary school teachers. Small grants would provide funds to lecturer-
teacher teams in the conduct of school-based action research. The program would run for
three years, with awards going to five teams per year, with preference to those focusing
on the SMP level. Grants would be for one year, with the possibility of extending to a
second year. Each year would have a theme:
- year I secondary school students' learning problems, errors and misconceptions;
D year 2 problems and issues related to student teaching; and
3 year 3 problems and adjustments of novice teachers during induction years.
9.    All proposals would be required to identify teacher partners for whom important,
substantive research and action roles are specified. Proposals would be encouraged from
lecturers who are involved in their LPTK-school linkage program. Support would be
provided for the publication of research results in international or local journals so that
action research methods and findings would be widely disseminated and used. This
program would be managed by a Research Management Unit set up at one of the LPTKs
similar to the research management unit established under the Primary School
Development Project.
Suggested Activities:
*  foreign and national consultants for drafting TOR (guidelines for proposals)
*  training and proposal workshops
*  selection of recipients
*  funds for research
*  mid-term workshops



52                             Annex 8: Page 4 of 4
* monitoring
* local workshops
* regional workshops
* publication facilitation
10.   These activities would be repeated for a total of 3 cycles, 5 school-based action
research proposals each year for a total of 15.
Partnerships with Foreign Institutions
11.   To further strengthen experienced-based teacher education programs and linkages
to schools, LPTKs would have the opportunity to form a partnership with a foreign
institution which has well established, collaborative teacher education programs with
schools. The project would support eight partnerships which include, but not be lirnited
to, activities such as the exchange of faculty between institutions, short study tours for
faculty and school teachers in partnership institutions, short study tours for faculty and
school teachers in partnership institutions, seminars, and workshops.
Suggested Activities:
- PIU develops guidelines for partnerships
* DGHE informs LPTKs of partnerships and guidelines
* meetings to explain proposals
* small funds given to LPTKs to negotiate partnership and write proposal which would
include a formal agreement between LPTK and proposed foreign institution
- proposals submitted to PIU for selection
* funds to successful LPTKs for implementation
* monitoring by PIU



Annex 9: Page I of 6                            53
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Coordinating the Training, Recruitment, and Appointment of Teachers
Background
Shortly after the nine-year basic education policy, including junior secondary education
with the six-year primary education, was introduced in 1989, the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOEC) issued Decree No. 0461/U/1990 to: (i) raise the quality of educational
programs; (ii) raise the quality of teachers as well as the quality of the students who train to
become teachers; and (iii) develop a coordination mechanism to balance teacher supply and
demand. Although Indonesia's educational policy during 1969-1994 had been successful in
increasing the enrollment rate of primary education a disequilibrium in teacher supply and
demand had become a problem particularly in primary education due to: (i) an over-complex
process of teacher recruitment and placement involving multiple Government agencies both at
the central and local levels, and (ii) a change in management responsibility which moved teacher
training from the Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) to the
Directorate-General of Higher Education (DGHE). The decree was issued specifically to avoid
problems in teacher supply and demand during the expansion of secondary schools in order not
to repeat the problems faced by primary education.
The Coordination Forum
Under this decree, a Coordination Forum was established in 1990 among the three
agencies of MOEC that are directly involved in the development and deployment of teachers:
DGHE, DGPSE, and the Secretariat-General of MOEC. The Coordination Forum functions the
deployment and development of teachers including the related aspects of trainee recruitment,
post-training appointment, placement, as well as inservice training and career development of
teachers.
(a)   Central Policy Coordination Forum. Also known as the Central Directional
Forum (CDF), is a body of national representatives for policy and program
development. Representatives include the following:  Secretary General of
MOEC; Director-General, Director, and Secretary of DGHE; Director-General,
Director, and Secretary of DGPSE; Chairperson and Secretary of the Office of
Education and Culture Research & Development; Director of General Secondary
Education; Director of Academic Affairs; Director of Private Higher Educational
Institutions; Chairperson of Personnel Bureau; Chairperson of Planning Bureau;
Chairperson of Finance Bureau; Chairperson of Education and Training Center;
Chairperson of Information Center. As appropriate, the Coordination Forum can
invite the Chairpersons from the following agencies on an ad-hoc basis: Civil



54                 Annex 9: Page 2 of 6
Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Ministry of
Administrative Reform (MENPAN). A Joint Secretariat supports the activities of
the CDF.
(b)   The Provincial Coordination Forum for Policies of Program Implementation).
The PCDFPI investigates the problems related to imbalances in teacher supply and
demand and teacher development within the region according to the directives of
the central administration the policies developed. The Head of the Provincial
Office of MOEC, Head of Provincial Administration of MOEC, Rectors of
LPTKs, Head of the Units of Distance Learning Programs, and related units at the
provincial level are represented in this forum.
(c)   District(Kabupaten) /Municipal Coordination Forum for Program
Implementation (DMCFPI). The Office of MOEC and related units at the district
level are represented in this forum.
Functions of the Coordination Forum
The function of the Coordination Forum is to identify and discuss various alternatives to
the problems related to teacher supply and the development of teacher training programs such as:
(a)   Student admission, and student distribution in LPTKs in accordance with the
actual demand of teachers.
(b)   Implementation of preservice training, including teaching practicum for
prospective teachers;
(c)   Scholarship provision in accordance with students' needs and academic
performance;
(d)   Teacher placement and inservice training;
(e)   Staff and career development, including in-service and continuing education in
subject matter and pedagogy.
In the Coordination Forum relevant MOEC units at the central, provincial, and
kabupaten/municipal levels meet to discuss educational policy, make recommendations and to
coordinate activities related to the supply, deployment, and development of teachers. Decision-
making authority and responsibility for implementation remain in the relevant units of MOEC.
The Joint Secretariat
The task of the Joint Secretariat is to identify problems in teacher distribution and to
recommend policy alternatives. The Executive Unit of the Joint Secretariat will consist of the
Chairman, Executive Secretary, and two assistants although it can count on the support of related
Government units. The Secretariat will be chaired by the Director of Academic Affairs of DGHE
who reports directly to the Director General of DGHE (who also heads the Secondary School
Teacher Development Project). Logistical assistance to the Joint Secretariat will also be provided



Annex 9: Page 3 of 6                                55
by DGHE. (The Bank-assisted project will have a strong link to the Coordination Forum through
the leaders of the Joint Secretariat).
A larger Plenary Joint Secretariat will include the members of the executive board and the
following 10 representative of the Government: Secretary of DGHE, Secretary of DGPSE,
Directorate of Teacher and Technical Manpower Training, Directorate of Primary Education,.
Directorate of General Secondary Education, Directorate of Secondary Education, Directorate of
Secondary Vocational Education, Directorate of Academic Affairs, Bureau of Personnel, Bureau
of Educational Planning and BAPPENAS.
The Role of Central Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Within the Secondary School Teacher Development Project the PIU is expected to
function as a facilitator of CDF and PCDFPI once project implementation commences. When
deemed necessary, the Secondary School Teacher Development Project will support the meetings
in the central office as well as regional meetings. The PIU and the Joint Secretariat will work
together. Reports prepared by the Joint Secretariat as the result of the Coordination Forum
meetings will be shared with the World Bank through the PIU.
Current Status and Outputs
The issues raised during the preparation of the Secondary School Teacher Development
Project highlighted the need for  the Coordination Forum. Two recent meetings of the
Coordination Forum have advanced the dialogue between DGHE and DGPSE.
The Coordination of In-Service Training. Two Core Meetings took place to discuss
inservice training, an area where there is a lot of overlap. Attending the meeting of November 8,
1995 were the Director Generals of DGHE and DGPSE and their staffs. The Coordination Forum
developed a work plan at this meeting which includes:
(a)   forming the Joint Secretariat,
(b)   identifying problems faced by both Directorates,
(c)   prioritizing problems, and
(d)   establishing a plan of action.
A second meeting was conducted on December 27, 1995. The participants were the same
as the previous meeting. A decision was reached that overlapping inservice training would be
avoided between DGHE and DGPSE.
Organization of 8 Regional Forums. There will be 27 Coordination Forums to represent
each of the 27 provinces. In order to conduct more efficient meetings, a plan will be adopted to
group the 27 provinces into 8 regions (Attachment During fiscal year 1996/1997 one meeting of
each of the eight Regional Coordination Forums is scheduled to take place. The agenda for the
Regional Forums will focus on teacher allocation and placement.



56                         Annex 9: Page 4 of 6
Teacher Allocation. The key task of each Coordination Forum at the province level will be
to realistically identify the number of teachers needed the public secondary schools in each field of
study. This information will be obtained from each Kanwil and discussed with the LPTK in the
Regional Forums. The demand for secondary school teachers will be determined by regions
according to actual intake into the LPTKs. Criteria for the recruitment of teachers will also be
elaborated in the regional meetings. Policy recommendations stemming from these meetings
include fellowship for students from rural or remote areas (Attachment).
Action Plan for the Coordination Forum.
The action plan for the Coordination Forum will deal with the following problems:
(a)   Planning and management of a national information system on teacher openings
and surpluses,
(b)   Limiting the number of new entrants to LPTKs based upon the demand of
teachers. Such indicators as the entrants' field of study, their geographic region of
origin, and the government's capability to provide a teaching appointment will be
used to improve the selection process,
(c)   Implementing improved pre-service education and teaching practicums to fulfill
the expectation and need of the schools,
(d)    Sharing educational resources among the MOEC agencies,
(e)    Evaluating, assigning, and placing new graduates of the teacher development
programs, and
(f)   Conducting effective staff development workshops using in-service training and
continuing education.



Annex 9: Page 5 of 6                             57
ATTACHMENT
Action Program for
Coordinated Secondary School Teacher Training, Recruitment and Deployment
RESPONSIBLE    TIMING/ACTION
OUTPUT/ACTIVITY          AGENCY            DATE              REMARKS
Organizaional acdvities
Preparatory meetings      DGHE, DGPSE   Nov. 1995-          Part of preparation of
Mar. 1996       Primary School Teacher
Education Project
Organization of Joint     Coordination     Apr. 1996       Joint Secretariat headed
Secretariat               Forum                            by DGHE Director of
Academic Affairs who
also supervises project;
Preparation of plan to    Joint Secretariat  Jul. 1996      PIU to inform World
reorganize 27 provincial                                   Bank
Coordination Forums into 8
regional forums
Adoption of plan for regional  Coordination  Jul. 1996     PIU to inform World
forums                    Forum                            Bank
Coordination of inservice
teacher training
Formation of technical    Joint Secretariat  Jul. 1996     Hosted by PIU
committee to draft
coordinated strategy
Discussion of coordinated    Joint Secretariat  Sep. 1996  Hosted by PIU
strategy
Adoption of strategy      Coordination     Oct. 1996       PIU to inform World
_Forum                            Bank
(Table continued on following page.)



58                        Annex 9: Page 6 of 6
RESPONSIBLE     TMING/ACTION
OUTPUT/ACTIVITY          AGENCY            DATE               REMAR
Teacher allocation and
placement
Preparation of strategy for    Joint Secretariat   Sep. 1996  Coordinated with team
consultative teacher                                        meetings under project
recruitment process with field                               Component 2
institutions
Field visits to link regional
forums with:
Secondary schools       DGPSE            Oct. 1996-       Timed with PIU and
Kanwils                 DGHE             Jun. 1997        project team visits to
LPTKs                   DGHE                              LPTKs and secondary
schools
Collation of field        Joint Secretariat   Aug.. 1997    PIU to invite World
recommendations                                             Bank comment
Adoption of consultative   Coordination     Oct. 1997       PIU to inform World
process                    Forum                            Bank
Review and assessment      Joint Secretariat   Oct. 1998     Timed with project's
nmidterm review
File M:\2TEACH\NEGS\COORD.DOC



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Technical Assistance Summary
Estimated Cost    Status of TOR (Date      Short List (Date)     Standard     Responsibility for
contract        Supervision
Type of TA Activity           Implementing      Total      Staff   Prepared   Expected   Prepared   Expected      prepared      RSI        HQ
Agency      (US$'000)  /Month                                                   (Y/N)*
A. Institutional Capacity Building
Local Experts
Management of science equipment &         LPTK              103      245                2/96                  3/96          Y            X
coordination of Basic Science Teams
Revising learning materials for         The Open            134       50                11/96                 12/96         Y            X
inservice training                  University
Supporting school linkages            LPTK, Kanwil           12      4.5                2/96                  3/96          Y           X
School-based action research          LPTK, Kanwil           18        3                5/96                  6/96          Y           x
Staff development specialists             LPTK                6      2.3                5/96                  6/96          Y           X
Training in assessment instruments        LPTK               15        5                2/96                  3/96          Y            X
Training in test administration           LPTK              256       96                2/96                  3/96          Y            X
Training student teaching observers       LPTK               35        6                2/96                  3/96          Y            X
Research for instructional improvement    LPTK                8        3                7/96                  8/96          Y           X
Planning for conversion to university    DGHE                96       36                2/97                  3/97          Y           X
International Experts
School-based action research          LPTK, Kanwil           35        3                5/96                  6/96          Y                      x
Training in assessment instruments        LPTK               10      0.5                2/96                  3/96          Y                      X
Training student teaching observers       LPTK               20        1                2/96                  3/96          Y                      x
Planing for conversion to university     DGHE               235      12                 2/97                  3/97          Y                      x
B. Implementation Support                                                                                                                            X
Local Expeits
Curriculum development                    LPTK               16       6                 2/96                  3/96          Y           X
Student support                           LPTK               16       6                 2/96                  3/96          Y           X
Technical audit & mid-term review         CPIU               40       15                12/96                 1/97          Y           X
Institutional planning                    CPIU               21       8                 2/97                  3/97          Y           X
International Experts
ICR preparation                           CPIU               29      1.5               12/95                  1/96          Y                      X
TOTAL                                        1105   503.8                                                      Y                     x
* Standard contract form is available at RSI.



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996            1SS7             i 198            19"        1      002001
ID    TaskNamne                                            02 41Q04101         01Q2 304 QQ10Q2IQ3104Q1I1021031041 IQ21031040110203                                 O
1    1. Improving Presevice & Inservice Teacher Ed.      3                                                              . -
2        A. Curriculum Improvenent
3            National meeting to initiate the process
4            Team meetings for analysis & development        .       j
5            Field visits to SMP & SMA                               ._                                            _
6            Field visits to LPTKs to share information              .
7            Feedback & revision
8            Curnculum implementation at LPTKs                       ._i                                      _i_E
9            Monitoring, feedback (including schools)
10            Revision based on feedback                              .                ._i_i                                     _        .__
11        B. Science Equipment
12            Batch 1
13                Preparing document for eq. purchase                                  .
14                Purchase
15                Workshops on using the equipment                _
16                Monitoring & evaluation
17            Batch 2
18                Preparing document for eq. purchase                   _
19                Purchase
20                Workshops on using the equipment
21                Monitoring & evaluation                             .
22        C. Ubrary Books                                             4                                                                   -i.
23            Curr. materials for SMP&SMA (start before proj.)
24                Purchase and delivery



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996      [     1997       1     1998       1     19         1     2000      J      2001
ID    Task Narne                                          Q2lQ30Q4 tI1Q2lQ3IQ4 Q1iQ2  Q30Q41QIQ21 03 IQ41Q1Q2LQ31a411IaQ2103
25            Library books (assessing needs before project)
26                Identity books
27                Purchase and delivery                               .
28            Book translating                                                                           ___i__________
29                Identity books & translators
30                Translation & publication
31            Book writing 8 publication                                                                !_       __
32            National journal of ed, research                       _                                  .    __
33                RFP for publisher                                   _
34                Review proposals                                         -
36                Announcement                                                 -
36                Publishing                                                                            ;               I_i_.___
37        D. Student Support Services                                 .                _                i                _____*__
38            Establishing student support centers                    ._               ._._.__
39            Operation
40        E. Inservice Ed. of Secondary School Teachers                                                 h -
41            Fellowships for School Teachers              I                                            '               '                .  
42                Establishing guidelines
43                Select recipients & give awards                     .
44             Learning materials development                                         i
45                Planning workshops & tech. assistance                _
46                Revise, organize & liustrateZ books
47                Field trials
48                Revision                                                                                       -



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996     1     197       I     1993            1900            2000      1     2001
ID   TaskNam                                           Q2Q30Q4101102 I31041Q1 02 I3 Q4014 0i    0 Q2          0401 IQ2 IQ3104101 IQ21Q3 
49               Prnnting                                                                                          -
60           Training tutors                                      .
51       F. Offices & Confeiece Rooms                                                                A i   t   i 
52           Identitying needs & locaton_
63           Planning & sanctioning
64           Construction & purchase
'4h



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996     |      1997      I     1998         1     ".            2000      |     2001 |
ID   Task Name              _Iii4IQ1112103 1Q4 01 Q2 203104101102103104101 Q2103 IQ41Q1 Q213
66   II. Strengthening Unkages to Secondary Schools                                                                    -                F3
66       A. Supporting School Unkages                                            -
67            Student Teaching Program
68               Implem team meeting
69                Fied visits                                       i               i
60                Materials printing
61                RegIona meings for PPL
62           Smna grant partnerships
63                Guidenes for proposals
64                Batch  I                                           _________
65                    Guideline dissemination 
66                    Proposal wokhop                            _
67                    Select & fund 5 grants
68                    Monitoring                                    ,
69                Batch2 -2___    _
70                Batch3 3i
71          School-Based Action Research                    *
72           Batch 1                                              i            - _      -       *
73                Draft & disseminate study TOR              _
74                Training in proposal writing
76                Select grant recipit
76                Recipets proceed with eu.s                                _._.
77                M-term L eni of project monitorng
78                Mid-term workshop
__         _   _    _   _   _    _   _   _ _    _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _    '  _   _   _     _      _   _ _     _   _   _ _     _    __               $%



INDONESIA
Secondazy School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1W96     I      1UT                      1 1993                3W              291
ID   TaskName                                         0203041 0I02103104101021031041Q1I02103041                       021031Q4oil 0c,20a3
79               Local _w ps
so               Regionai woksho
el               Publication of results
82           Batch 2 
23           Batch 3..ii
U4       B. Patnerships with Fomign I onsst t t n                                                                i                 . .
_6            E saW* wd                                    _
aso          Cal for proposals                                                                    '               .
87           Select proposals-
se           Partnership activtis                                                 i                               i
89       C. LPTK Faculty Teachin SecondsyScols                                                                                    -        



C~~~~~~~~                                     1100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
so   ~~~4           100   1.04     lap  Mn  I  IWO  IWO~~~~~~~~~~9
Pra 
lo
ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-4~~~1
i  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
4.~~-
59                     ~~I fo9a8c :Ixu 



..&  .Il..&..~~~~...&...&..A1..&..&so ..4a    -                    -    a a      -   a14
VI
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 f  t,
0~~
lii   Iijll!liii  !lii
Ij                    I    ..                                                                 11''''1---    - - 
.........................    .........    ..  ........................    .........  ............  .......... . .......  ... . .. . . .. . ..............   ..   ..  ................   ....    .. .. ..
I fioY z Dd :l I IX7Wtv                                            99



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996             1997            1993             19"              2000             2001
ID   TaskNaffe                                            Q21030Q40Q102103 Q4 I102 Q3|04  Q1|021031041011Q2103 I4Q1023
138                Batch 3 (25)                                                           *
139                    Nominating candidates & appication
140                    Selection S pbcement                                                     _
141                    Program study
142           Doctoral fellowships, overseas                           _                                                                            _
143                Batch I (10), activities start before proJect
144                    Language training & orientation
145                    Program study                                  i                                      -
146                Batch 2 (35)                                       i
14T                    Nomian candidates
148                    Selction of institution & application
149                    Language training & orentation         -
150                    Program study                                                                    i
151                Batch 3 (55)                                                                         iS
152                    Nominatig candidates                               -
153                    Selection of institution & application
154                    Language training & orientation
155                    Program study
156       B. Refresher Courses
157           Batch 1 (50 fellows)
158                Nominating candidates
169                Seectng canddt                                       -
160                Ideniffying & contacting instions
161               TTwo pre-departure seminars (each for I wk)



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996             1997             1993g             199320                             2001O
ID  TaskNarne                                               Q21Q3Q41Q2Q3lQ41Q2Q3Q4Q1lQ2lQ3lQ4Q1llQtQ1aQ2Q3                                                             00
162                Program study                                                        -
163                Pnnting & distribution of materials
164            Batch 2(50 fellows)
166                Nominating candidates
166                Selecting candidates                                                    _
167                Identitying & contacting institutions
168                Two pre-departure seminars (each for I wk)
169                Program study
i70                Printing & distribution of materials                                                             -
171            Batch 3(50 fellows)
172                Nominating candidates                                                                _ 
173                Selecting candidates                                                                     -
174                Identifying & contacting institutions                                                          -
176                Two pre-departure seminars (each for 1 wk)
176                Program study                                                                                          -
177                Printing & distribution of materials
178       C. Staff Development Workshops
179            TOR
180            Select trainers
181            Regional staff development workshops
182            PKG instructors with S2 degrees as mentrs                                                                      _ i



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996   Q         1997      J      1998            1os              200
ID    Task Name                                            Q20Q3 Q4 01 lQ2103  Q4JI l Q102 0Q31041Q0102103-104I01 l2103141102 03
183  IV. Building Educational Research Capacity                                         4 i
184       A. Assessrnent of SI Recruits
185            Specifications for instruments
186            Short list of candidate LPTKs
187           Requesting for preliminary proposals
198           Training workshops
189            Select contracts                                         _
190            Construct instruments & monitor                               _
191            Pilot instruments                                                                                                                                      i
192            Analyze data & develop guidelines for use                              -
193            Dissemination                                                              _
194       B. Quality Assurance                               *                                                                                                       C-
195            Batch 1
196                Developing assessment instruments               i_X
197                Workshops to train test administrators                        -
198                Selecting samples & administering tests                          -
199                Data analyzed & presented to LPTks
200            Batch 2
201                Developing assessment instruments
202                Workshops to train test administrators                                        _
203                Selecting samples  administering tests 
204                Data analyzed & presented to LPTks
205            Batch 3
206                Developing assessment instruments                                                         -



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996            1997                 t            1m        I.I             j       2T 010
ID    TaskNare                                              2034a01102103 4 01 la21203041Qi 01 2103Q41  aQ21a031a410la21a3
207                Workshops to train test admnttors                                   -.                        _
208                Selecting samples & administering tests                                                           -
209                Data analyzed & presented to LPTKs                                                                -
210       b. Research on the Improvemwnt of Instruction               .                .                                 .                .__
211            Batch  I                                                 ___i _i_i___
212                Dran& disseminate study TOR
213                Training in proposal writing
214                Selct grant recipients                              .
215                Recipients proceed with dudis                                       i_i_._._X
216                Local workshops (5, each for ane week)             ..
217                National & regixnl w   _kcxp (twice)                .
218                Mid-tern & end of prmject monitoring                                            -
219                Publication of results                                                                           -
220            Batch 2                                                .                                                  .                .
221            Batch3 3                                                                                                   _      _    _



INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Detailed Five-Year Implementation Schedule
1996    J:    19397       J     1993            1111W1           26W        [    20W1
ID   Task Nrn                                           Q213IQ4JI91 IQ2IQ3104101 1102103Q41 IQ2103104 0   01 IQ2103104 0Q  I                  0Q2Q3
222   V. Preparing for a Wider Mandate                               _              -
223       a. Plannhig for Conversion to Univ.                                         _ i_i                _i___
224           Establishing guidles                                            -
225           LPTKs submitthng letter of intenr                         _
226           LPTKs submitting proposals
227           LPTK visitation and diague (10 IKIPs)
228           Selecting insttuions
229           Program planning                                                                                       b
230       b. Preparing tor Accreditation                                                                                                                        Zs i___-i_*_
231           Meetings with BAN
232           Refining standards, indicators & creria               +
233           Training in self-evaluatlon procedures
234           Training eva. report writers & peer vaadattors                    -
235           Piloting self-evalkaion&peer validation sys.
236           Seminars & dissemination
237       c. Career Planning                                        i
238           Planning structue & progras of cis
239           Drafting guideines for selection criteria
240           LPTKs presenting proposal
241           Evaluating proposals
242           Revisng budget & procedures                                  -
243           Monitoring project impiementation
-.1



INDONESIA
Secondafy School Teachr Devebpme Project
Projecd Component by Year - Tota including Contingn
Totba including Contigencles (Rupiah Bililon)       Total Including Contingwncis (USS Million)
9697   9719J   9199   99100   00101    Tota    967    97196   98199   99100   00101    Totai
1.ImprovigPrP-swviceandIn-serviceTeacherEducation     22.0    26.4    10.9    11.5       8.7    79.5      9.8    11.8      4.8     5.1      3.9    35.4
2. Strengthenin LLnkages to Secondary Schoos           3.8      3.0     2.8      2.8     0.2    12.5      1.7      1.3     1.3     1.2      0.1     5.6
3. Rahgthe ouafcatonsofTeacherEducators               4.1    18.0    25.3    24.0    11.8    83.1        1.8      8.0    11.3    10.7      5.2    37.0
4. Building Educational Rsearch Capacity               0.8      2.6     2.1      1.2     0.0      6.8     0.4      1.1     0.9     0.5      0.0     3.0
5. Preparing for a Wer Mandate                         0.0      0.8     0.9      0.6     0.4      2.8     0.0      0.4     0.4     0.3      0.2     1.3
6. Prject tmp_iefettion                                2.2      2.2     2.0      2.1     2.3    10.9      1.0      1.0     0.9      1.0     1.0     4.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      32.9    53.0    44.1    42.2    23.4   195.6    14.7    23.6    19.6    18.8    10.4    87.1
0.



WDONESIA
Secondary Sdod Teaw Develpmnt Projed
Expencdiue Acwula by Yeas - Totals Indkdh  Contbigen
Totals Including ConUngecIe (Ruplah BIlbon)       Totbls Includhn ConUngencis (USS 9M11on)
96197   971W    9U199   9900    00101    Total   ff/97    97198   98109    "100   00101    Total
1. Ilnvestmnt Costs
k ClVN Wooks
storae and laboratory                          1.5     1.6       -        -       -      3.1     0.7     0.7       -        -       -      1.4
Renovai                                          -     1.9     2.0      2.1       -      5.9       -     0.8    0.9  .0.9           -      2.6
Subtotal Cv Works                                1.5     3.4     2.0      2.1       -      8.9     0.7     1.5    0.9       0.9       -     4.0
B. Equlpment
Sdence Equipnt                                14.7    15.2       -        -       -    29.9      6.6     6.8       -        -       -    13.3
Ofilce Eq*rnent                                0.2     0.2     0.2        -       -      0.6     0.1     0.1     0.1        -       -      0.3
Subtobtl Equipmen                               14.9    15.4     0.2        -       -    30.5      8.6     6.8    0.1         -       -    13.6
C. FunVIte                                       0.9     0.4     0.4      0.3       -      2.0     0.4     0.2     0.2      0.1       .     0.9
D. Consumable Materals                           0.0     0.2     0.4      0.3     0.3      1.2     0.0     0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1      0.5
E.Learnngandteachingmaterlalsia                  0.1     1.5     1.2      1.3     0.5     4.6      0.1     0.6    0.6       0.6     0.2     2.1
F. Consulant
Inkmnatonal Consultants                        0.1     0.2     0.2      0.1     0.2     0.8      0.0     0.1    0.1       0.1     0.1     0.4
Nafional Consultants                           0.5     0.6     0.5      0.2     0.2      1.9     0.2     0.3    0.2       0.1     0.1     0.9
Subtol Consultant                                0.5     0.8     0.7      0.3     0.4      2.8     0.2     0.4    0.3       0.1     0.2      1.2
G. Fellowships
Domestc Felowshlps                             2.0     6.3     9.7    10.1      5.1    33.2      0.9     2.8    4.3       4.5     2.3    14.8
Intematon Feowships                            2.1     9.1    14.8    13.0      5.7    44.7      0.9     4.1     6.6      5.8     2.5    19.9                 Oq
Subtobal FellowhIps                              4.1    15.5    24.5    23.1    10.8    77.9       1.8     6.9    10.9    10.3      4.8    34.72
H. Grants
Link grant                                     2.2     2.2     2.2      2.2       -      8.8     1.0     1.0    1.0       1.0       -     3.9                  0
Research grant                                 0.2     1.3     1.3      1.3     0.3     4.4      0.1     0.6    0.6       0.8     0.1     2.0
Subtotal Grants                                  2.4     3.5     3.5      3.5     0.3    13.2      1.1     1.6    1.6       1.6     0.1     5.9
i. Studis                                          -     0.6       -        -       -     0.6        -     0.3       -       -        -     0.3
J. SdidarhIps                                    4.0     4.2     4.5      4.7     5.0    22.5      1.8     1.9    2.0      2.1      2.2    10.0
K Training and Worshops
W rkshop&SernlS asm                            2.2     5.1     4.2      4.0     3.4    18.9      1.0     2.3     1.9      1.8     1.5     8.4
Local Trainng                                  0.4     0.4     0.5      0.5     0.5     2.2      0.2     0.2    0.2       0.2     0.2     1.0
Subtotalrainingand Workshops                     2.8     5.5     4.8      4.5     3.9    21.1      1.1     2.5    2.1      2.0      1.8     9.4
L Project Managenwnt ExpendItures
PIl Honorarsa                                  0.9     0.9     0.8      0.9     0.9     4.5      0.4     0.4    0.4      0.4      0.4     2.0
PIU Travel Expenses                            0.4     0.4     0.4      0.5     0.5     2.1      0.2     0.2    0.2       0.2     0.2     1.0
PIU OperatIonal Costs                          0.5     0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6     2.8      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.3     0.3     1.2
PIU Consumable Materals                        0.1     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.8      0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1      0.1     0.4
Subtotal roec Management Expenditures            1.9     2.0     2.0      2.1     2.2    10.2      0.8     0.9    0.9      0.9      1.0     4.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                               32.9    53.0    44.1    42.2    23.4   195.6    14.7    23.6    19.6    18.8    10.4    87.1
a icuding writing, trarsation, puirni. and dissemination.



INDONESIA
SOndIfy  Siool Teedw DOVaWm   Prad
ExpedIkxe Aocoiml by Componerifa
(US$ MGo)
anid     Streng1hening    Raiking Si.      uLidhig   Prpauig
ln4efVlc     Unkls  to    Qualfcaons   Educational   for a
Techer       Seonday        Of Teacr       Resewch      Wder         Proect
Educatin      Schools        EducetoM andat   Implrn _non   Total
_wetamCost
k CiSVi Wodi
a      argodlabortiy                                  1A                                                                             1.4
RenovioM                                              2.6                                                                            2.8
SubWo  Ct  Works                                        4.0                      -             -                -               -      4.0
. Equipmet
Sdcbce Equ     t                                     13.3             .                                                             13.3
OMllc Eqpm                                                            -               --                    0.2             0.1      0.3
Subtm    Equpmew                                       13.3              -              -            -        0.2             0.1     13.6
C. FtNlb,w                                              0.8             -                -                    0.1               -      0.9
D.CoUmrblsMtaerb                                                       0.0             0.4          0.0       01                       0.5
E. Lawning  Wd     g M m a /a                           2.1                             -            -          -               -      2.1
F. Consltdant
hftle a"   CoMuiId                                     -            0.0               -          0.0        0.3             0.0      0.4
Nagonai Coreulbt                                     0.3            0.0              0.0          0.3       01              0.1      0.9
Sublo  CorAuitnt                                        0.3           0.1              0.0         0.4        0.4             0.1      1.2
G. Feflowhip
DonieC Fekwhis                                                                      14.8           -          -               -     14.8
n t  Fal                                               -              -             19.9           -          -               -     19.9
Subb3ftl F     _oNos                                     -              -            34.7            -          -               -    34.7
H. Granta
Lhi* gr                                                -            3.9                      -                -               -      3.9
Ressil ga  t                                         0.5            0.1               -           1.4         -               -      2.0
Subtal Grail                                            0.5            4.0               -          1.4         -               -      5.9
I. Sbu                                                   -              -                          0.                                  0.3
J. Sdm                                                 10.0             -               -            -          -               -     10.0
K. Tramni  md Wosishpe
Wobrksho" & Swmkiw                                   4.1             1.1             1.9         0.9        0.2             0.2      8.4
Locul Trekg                                          0A             0.3                          0.0        03                -      1.0
Subtoa hrl   annd Worshops                             4.5             1.4             1.9         0.9        0.4             0.2      9.4
Proe  MamgeenExpnditur.
PIU Honora                                             -            0.1               -            -          -             1.9      2.0
PIU TrvlExp_ E--                                                                      -            -          -             1.0      1.0
PIU Operila Cola                                       -            0.0               -            -                        1.2      1.2
PIU Cnorlablef bt s                                    -               -                            -                       0.4      0.4
Subtl rojet Managment Expridlturs                         -            0.1               -            -         -             4.4      4.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      35.4            5.6            37.0          3.0        1.3             4.9    87.1
Taxes                                                   1.6            0.0             0.0          0.0        0.0            0.0      1.7
Fonign Exchange                                        14.1            2.2            19.3          0.6       0.5             0.5    37.1
jf\ Wickidng wrotig bwaon. prkitV, and diemmhabon.



Amnex 13                                                                  75
INDONESIA
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procumment Plan
Contracting and Review ResponsibilIties
Contract
Total   ENtm ted                                                    Bank     Documents
Value   Contrat    DIPANPRES        Procurment         Kind of     Review    required for
No. Ca pry                                         (USS M)  Quantity     Ailocrtlon        Method          Review1/       By     Dlsbursement
1  Cyti Worksa                                           4       44
Smail contrat 4w50o000                              1.2       24      LPTK        National Shopping    Random Post   SPNIb       SOE
Mdium o>ntract 450,000 -S500,000                    2.9       20      LPTK             NCB           Random Post    RSI          SOE
Lug conbuct4 500,000 (itf ny)                        0         0      LPTK             NCB              Prior        RSI         Full
First contr ct>1100.000                                        1      LPTK             NCB              Prior        RSI         Full
2  Equlp 1entFlumituralConsumiable Matlabls             15        48
Smag pacage 50.000                                 4.6             DGHEILPTK         Shoppin,        Random Post    SPN         SOE
Medlun padkge 450,000 - 4S200000                   7.6        40      LPTK             NCB           Random Post    RSI         SOE
Spadcfcand lrg* pacag >200.000                       3         6      LPTK              lCB             Prior       TM/c         Full
First contr ct>450,000                                         1      LPTK             TBD              Prior        RSI         Full
3  LaminIng and Teaching Maitbs                        2.1       28
Small pckage 450000                                0.6        18      LPTK           Shopping        Random Post    SPN          SOE
Medlun padcage 45,000 - 4200,000                    1.2       10   DGHEALPTK           NCB           Random Post    RSI         SOE
Speciic and lrge padckse >200,000 (if ny)            0         0      DGHE              ICB             Prlor        TM          Full
4  Consultuncy Service r   StudIea                     1.5        1Q
Firm <4100.000                                     0.7         7      DGHE          Short listing    Limited Prior   RSI        SOE
Individual 450.000                                 0.5        10      DGHE            Othen          Linited Prior   RSI        SOE
Othe                                                0.3        2      DGHE          Shon listing        Prior        TM          Full
5  Intemational Ftowshlp                             19.9      NIA       DGHE            Others         Limited Prior   RSI        SOE
6  Domestic Fellowships Id                            14.6         8   Universites        Others         Limited Prior   RSI        SOE
7  Scholarships                                         10      N/A       LPTK            Others         Limited Prior   RSI        SOE
8  G"nts /                                             5.9       80       LPTK            Others         Limited Prior   RSI        SOE
9  Local TrInting                                      9.6      N/A   DGHEALPTK           Others        Random Post    SPN          SOE
10  ProJct Opoting Eapen"a                              4.5      N/A      DGHE            Othem          Random Post    SPN          SOE
87.1      223
/a Prior review, nndonm post review snd limitd prior review (OR, proposed progranm and draf contract).
th Supervlsion rnssions
kc Teak Manager.
Id First year fund will be allocated In DGHE. and subsequently contracted out to the recipient university.



76                               Annex 14
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year          Amount per  Cumulative         Disbursement profile
and semester              semester      amount (%)                (%)+
---(US$ million) --------
Y96
2                           4.0        4.0     7                  0
FY97
1                           4.9        8.9   15                   0
2                           8.1       17.0   28                   3
Ey98
1                           8.1       25.1   41                   6
2                           7.0       32.1   53                  10
FY99
1                           7.0       39.1   65                  22
2                           6.7       45.8   76                  34
EY00
1                           6.7       52.5   87                  42
2                           3.5       56.0   93                  54
EYQ
1                           3.5       59.5   98                  66
2                           0.9       60.4  100                  74
La  Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (June 1995).
Completion Date: March 31, 2001
Closing Date: September 30, 2001



Annex 15: Page I of 10                           77
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Monitoring and Evaluation
Presented in this annex is an overview of monitoring and evaluation for the
project, including indicators by project component and sub-components to guide
summative and formative evaluations as well as monitoring and supervision. The
Ministry of Fducation and Culture (MOEC) will establish a Project Benefit Monitoring
and Evaluation (PBME) unit at the Central Project Implementation Unit. This unit will be
comprised of one or two staff who would perform project monitoring and coordinate
evaluation activities. Collecting and supplying data for monitoring and evaluation will be
the responsibility of the Central Project Implementation Unit for the overall project and
Local Project Implementation Unit for activities at institutional sites.
Following are the detailed performance indicators. Part I displays the project
overview with performance indicators for summative evaluation to be used at project
completion. Part II, displays detailed performance indicators for monitoring, formative
evaluation and supervision for use during project implementation.
Definitions
Monitoring is the process of tracking project activities to determine if they are
being implemented as planned. Information from supervisory visits, routine visits and
reports from  sites and task teams,  and periodic project reviews are sources for
monitoring information which can be fed into the evaluation process particularly at the
formative stage to allow for adjustment of activities and timeframes.
Formative evaluation occurs during development and implementation of a project
or set of activities which are part of a project. It is used to determine how well the
individual activities are being accomplished compared to themselves. Formative
evaluation provides immediate feedback for improvement and correction. This type of
evaluation is invaluable to curriculum design and development which takes place over
several years and involves continuous revision and refinement.
Summative evaluation occurs at project completion. It attempts to provide an
answer to how well the overall objective(s) was accomplished. In formative and
summative evaluation the same instruments may be used. It is how the results are fed
back into the system that determines the distinction between the two types of evaluation.



INDONESIA
Secondary Teacher Development Project
Part 1: Project Overview with Performance Indicators for Evaluation                                _1
General performance indicators have been developed to measure the impact of the project. The chart below              
provides a project overview by objective, component, subcomponent, inputs, expected output and the general
performance indicator by which to guide a summative impact evaluation of the project at completion.
Component
(Project Objective)              Input                                   Output                 Outcome indicator
Component 1
Enhance teaching-learning
processes in secondary schools
a) Curriculum Improvement    a) English Team workshop                                          Higher student achievement in
Pedagogy Team workshops                                         the preservice program;
Social Science Team workshops         Improved \
b) Science Equipment         b) Science equipment                       LPTK
Science equipment workshops          pre-service and          ___
c) Textbooks and References  _ c) Books (purchase and writing)       in-service programs
Translations                                                    Higher rate of in-serviced
Journal publications                                            secondary school teachers
d) Student Support           d) Tutors                                                         with S-1 degrees;
Services                                                                                     (including female teachers)
e) In-service Education      e) Fellowships to school teachers
f) Learning Materials Dev.   f) Piloting and revision of
distance education materials
g) Offices and               g) Offices, Conference rooms
Conference Rooms
More LPTK faculty working
Component 2                                                                            with SMP teacher s and students
Establish linkages between                                                               /_l
LPTKs and secondawy schools                                                                    re LPTK graduates hired in
a) Supporting School         a) Teaching practicum activities        partnerships                 secondary schools;
Linkages                                                          with secondary
b) Grant funds for joint LPTK             schools               Improved teaching practicum
and secondary school activities       established
c) Overseas Partnerships     c) Exchange program                                            Joint activites conducted regularly



Component 3
Promote quality and efficiency
in programs, staff developmem                                            prove                 S2 and S3 degree holders
/    quality of    \  ,, constitute 45% of LPTK staff
a) Masters Pr.-gram          a) National grants (1,450)                 LPTK                   (including female candidates)
Overseas grants (150)                teaching staff
b) Doctorate Program         b) National grants ( 50)
Overseas grants (100)                                            Course-related materials
c) Refresher Courses         c) Overseas seminars (150)                                          produced regularly
d) Faculty Workshops         d) Regional workshops (8)
Mentors
Component 4
Build educational research
capacity, Enhance effective
management
a) Entry-level Student      a) Workshops to develop
Assessment                  instruments
Training of assessors                teaching & leaming          Higher achievement of LPTK
b) System of quality assurance             in LPTKs                graduates
b) Quality Assurance
c) Research on Improvement    c) Research grants                                                Research pubished in
of Instruction                                                                                 journals regularly
Component 5
Define a wider mandate for
LPTKs, Enhance effecive
management                                                                                        hIsfiwuional self-assessment
a) Planning for a Wider       a) Workshops for planning                Improved                    conducted regularly
Mandate                                                              efficiency
b) Preparing for accreditation  b) Self-evaluation                    of the LPTKs
Training Workshops                                               More LPTK graduates hired
c) Career Planning           c) Seed money
\                                             vc>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%



80                              Annex 15: Page 4 of IO
Part II
Detailed Performance Indicators for
Monitoring, Formative Evaluation, and Supervision
Detailed performance indicators have been identified according to each sub-component for
monitoring and supervision. Teams responsible for project implementation will work closely
with the PIU to provide data and reports from the field. Formative evaluation questions are
listed for each sub-component to serve as guide to assessment.
Component 1: Improving Preservice and Inservice Teacher Education
(1-a) Curriculum Improvement Indicator    Monitor     Means         Frequency
(who)       (how)         (when)
* Content courses in English and Social Science
developed                             Curriculum    Report to PIU  Two times per
* Subject-specific pedagogy courses developed Team                 year
* Double-major and major-minor programs
offered
[Evaluation Question: In what ways have the new courses improved the programs of study?    l
(1-b) Science Equipment Indicator       Monitor      Means         Frequency
(who)       (how)         (when)
* Biology, chemistry, mathematics, and physics  BST  Report to PIU  Two times per
laboratories renovated and equipped to BST                        year
standards
* Storage facilities for the equipment installed
and used
* Science workshops for LPTK lecturers in
operation
Evaluation Question: In what ways have the new laboratories improved the progress of study? 1



Annex 15: Page 5 of 1081
(1-f) Learning Materials Development Indicator Monitor   Means         Frequency
(who)      (how)          (when)
* Materials are selected for revision        UT        Report to PIL   Quarterly for
* Materials are revised and piloted         SMA                       the year I & 2
* Materials are revised                                               Twice a year
Evaluation    |       In what ways are the revised leaming materia s more effective
[       Question:             than the old learning materials in training inservice teachers?
(1-g) Offices and Conference Rooms Indicat r  Monitor   Means          Frequency
(who)        (how)         (when)
* Number of staff offices are increased
* Number of conference rooms are increased   LPTK      Report to PIU  Biannually
* Student-faculty, inter-faculty interaction
are increased
* Numbers of faculty attending faculty meeting
and seminars are increased
Evaluation Question: In what ways are the new spaces changing the quality of interactions ?
Component 2: Strengthening Linkages to Secondary Schools
(2-a) Supporting School Linkages Indicator  Monitor     Means          Frequency
(who)              (how)          (when)
* Increased activities between LPTK and
secondary schools                        LPTK        Reports to PIU   Two times per
* Increased numbers of school teachers joining Kanwil                year
on-campus programs at LPTKs             SMP
* LPTK teachers are working in SMPs with
secondary school teachers and students
* LPTK graduates are being hired in the
secondary schools
*Increased joint research (LPTK-schools)
E valuation Question: How are the linkages changing the effectiveness of LPTK programs?
H How are the linkages affecting the quality of LPTK graduates?



82                            Annex 15: Page 6 of IO
(1-f) Learning Materials Development Indicato  Monitor  Means         Frequency
(who)      (how)          (when)
* Materials are selected for revision        UT        Report to Pl   Quarterly for
* Materials are revised and piloted         SMA                       the year 1 & 2
* Materials are revised                                               Twice a year
Evaluation           In what ways are the revised learning materi Is more effective
Question:            than the old learning materials in training inservice teachers?
(1-g) Offices and Conference Rooms Indicat or  Monitor   Means        Frequency
(who)        (how)         (when)
* Number of staff offices are increased
* Number of conference rooms are increased   LPTK      Report to PIU  Biannually
* Student-faculty, inter-faculty interaction
are increased
* Numbers of faculty attending faculty meeting
and seminars are increased
Evaluation Question: In what ways are the new spaces changing the quality of interactions ?
Component 2: Strengthening Linkages to Secondary Schools
(2-a) Supporting School Linkages Indicator  Monitor     Means         Frequency
(who)       (how)         (when)
* Increased activities between LPTK and
secondary schools                       LPTK         Reports to PIU   Two times per
* Increased numbers of school teachers joining Kanwil                year
on-campus programs at LPTKs             SMP
* LPTK teachers are working in the
secondary schools
* LPTK graduates are being hired in the
secondary schools
*Increased joint research (LPTK-schools)
Evaluation Question: How are the linkages changing the effectiveness of LPTK programrs?
How are the linkages affecting the quality of LPTK graduates?



Annex 15: Page 7 of 10                              83
(2-c)Partnership with Foreign Institutions Indicator Monitor  Means    Frequency
(who)     (how)       (when)
* International visits are conducted and lessons are  LPTK  Report to PIU Two times per
applied to the implementation of teaching                          year
practicum and school linkages with the LPTKs
Evaluation Question: In what ways have the teaching practicum improved and how are
overseas
lessons in school linkages being applied to the LPTK programs?
Component 3: Raising the Qualifications of Teacher Educators
(3-a )Masters Program Indicator           Monitor      Means          Frequency
(who)       (how)         (when)
* The number of fellowship grantees      Consultants   Report to PIU  Two times per
reaches 1,450 domestic and                                         year
150 international by the end of the project
Evaluation Question: How are the returnees p aced? In what ways have their t eaching
changed?
(3-b) Doctorate Program Indicator        Monitor       Means         Frequency
(who)       (how)         (when)
* The number of fellowship grantees reaches  Consultants   Report to PIU  Two times per
100 international and 50 domestic by the                           year
end of the project
Evaluation Question: How are the returnees placed? In what ways have their teaching
(changed?



84                          Annex 15: Page 8 of 10
(3-c) Refresher Courses Indicator         Monitor       Means          Frequency
___________________________________  (who)        (how)        (when)
* 150 candidates are attending the interational Consultants   Report to PIU  Two times per
non-degree professional development progran                         year
* Course-related materials are produced by the
returnees of the refresher courses
Evaluation Questions: In what ways have the courses improved the quality of teaching?
In what way are the teaching materials developed through the courses impacting the programs? |
(3-d) Faculty Workshops Indicator         Monitor      Means          Frequency
(who)        (how)         (when)
* 8 regional workshops are held during the  LPTK       Report to PIU  Two times per
the project                                                         year
* Mentors are teaching subject-specific
pedagogy courses          ___                        __       __
Evaluation Questions: In what way are faculty workshops improving the quality of LPTKs?
Component 4: Building Educational Research Capacity
(4 a) Entry-level Student Assessment Indicatoi Monitor   Means        Frequency
(who)        (how)        (when)
* Assessment instrument is developed and   LPTK      Report to PIU   Two times a
implemented                                                         year
* Results of the assessment is analyzed
* Analysis is presented to the LPTK teachers
and to the student support services
* Teaching is adjusted to bring the level of
students up from where they are
Evaluation Question: In what ways are the assessments helping to improve entry level student
achievement?



Annex 15: Page 9 of 10                               85
(4-b) Quality Assurance Indicator         Monitor      Means          Frequency
(who)        (how)         (when)
* Student teachers are assessed after practicum  LPTK  Report to PIL  Two times per
* Each LPTK student is assessed at graduation                        year
Evaluation Question: What is the quality of LPTK graduates as entry level teachers?
(4-c) Research: Improvement of Instruction  Monitor     Means          Frequency
Indicator                           (who)         (how)         (when)
* Research is designed and conducted      LPTK         Report to PIU   Two times per
* Findings are applied for improving                                  year
instructional materials
* Findings are published in national and
international journals
Evaluation Question: How is the research improving the instruction at LPTKs and the schools?
Component 5: Preparingfor a Wider Mandate
(5- a) Planning for a Wider Mandate Indicatoi Monitor   Means          Frequency
(who)        (how)        (when)
* Guidelines for a wider mandate are drafted    DGHE    Report to     At completion
* "Letter of intent" from LPTKs are submitted           DGHE          of activity
to the DGHE                              PIU                        during first year
* Proposals from LPTK are submitted to be
reviewed by the DGHE
* Visitation and dialogue with nominated LPTKs
are conducted
* Selection of LPTKs are made              DGHE
* Program planning are selected institutions are
processed no later than 3 years into the project LPTK  Report to PIU   Once a semester
semester
Evaluation Question: How are LPTKs maintaining excellence in teacher education as they adopt
a wider mandate?



86                          Annex 15: Page 10 of 10
(5-b) Preparing for Accreditation Indicator    Monitor    Means        Frequency
(who)        (how)           (when)
* Meetings are held with BAN              LPTK         Report to PIU    Two times
* Standards for LPTKs are adjusted to DGHE    BAN      Report to DGHE  per year
guidelines and drafted
* Self-study and peer validation are implemented
* Evaluation report writers and peer validators   LPTK  Report to DGHE
are trained
* Seminars for system improvement and     DGHE         Report to PIU
dissemination are conducted                 I                 I
Evaluation Question: How are LPTKs developing self-asses sment capacity?
(5- c) Career Planning Indicator          Monitor      Means         Frequency
(who)       (how)          (when)
* A career informnation office is in place  Career    Report to PIU  Two times per
* A data base of career infornation is   Office                     year
developed and shared with faculty and  LPTK
students
* Numbers of students selecting double
major and major-minor are increasing
Evaluation Question: In what ways is the career office helping graduates obtain jobs?



Annex 16                                           87
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Supervision Plan
FY and Date                    Mission Objectives             Mission Composition       Allocation
(Staff Weeks)
FY96                                                      Education specialist                2
June, 1996             Project launch workshop            Teacher education specialist        I
Implementation specialist           I
Human resource economist            I
FY 97                  Practicum and curriculum teams,    Education specialist                2
November, 1996          IKIPs for conversion, Task Force,    Teacher education specialist     I
linkages, and SI assessment       Human resource economist            I
instrument
April, 1997            Action plan for teacher reassign-  Education specialist                2
ment, research, practicum handbook,  Teacher education specialist     I
student and services, assessment  Human resource economist            I
tests results, admission standards
FY 98
November, 1997          Research, linkages, admission     Education specialist                2
standards, curriculum, practicum,  Teacher education specialist       2
and institutional self-assessment and  Human resource economist       2
wider mandate
April, 1998             Status of school linkages,        Education specialist                2
placement of fellowships, and use of  Technical assistance specialist  2
facilities
FY 99
December, 1998         Practicum and curriculum teams,    Education specialist                2
action plan for teacher reassignment,  Teacher education specialist   I
IKIPs for conversion, Task Force,    Human resource economist         I
April, 1999            Midterm review                     Education specialist                2
(include PBME progress report)    Education evaluation specialist     I
Implementation specialist           I
Human resource economist            I
FY 00                                                     Education specialist                2
November, 1999         Admission standards, student       Teacher education specialist        2
achievement, student-teacher ratio,
April, 2000            employment of graduation,          Education specialist                2
conversion to universities        Teacher education specialist        2
FY 01                                                     Education specialist                2
March, 2001            Project completion review          Teacher education specialist        2
Human resource economist           2
Total       46



88                        Annex 1 7: Page I of 5
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Project Efficiency and Sustainability
Improving Efficiency of LPTKs
Raising student-teacher ratio of the LPTKs
1.    The need to improve the efficiency of public LPTKs in Indonesia is demonstrated
with two frequently used indicators: student-teacher ratio and unit cost. As of 1994-95,
the 30 public LPTKs (excluding FKIP of the Open University) enroll 138,577 students in
their diploma and degree programs, and employ a total of 13,971 teaching staff, averaging
9.9 students per teaching staff. In contrast the overall student-teacher ratio of the entire
public higher education sector in Indonesia stands around 12:1, about 21% higher than the
LPTKs. This ratio varies widely among both the IKIPs/STKIPs and the FKIPs. While it is
12:1 for IKIP Jakarta, it is 5:1 and below for IKIP Manado and STKIP Gorontalo (Table
1). The ratio for the 19 FKIPs on average is slightly higher than the IKIPs/STKIPs, and
has an even larger variation.
Table 1 Efficiency Indicators of the LPTKs
Student -teacher   Total expenditure per  Routine budget per student
IKJPATKIP         ratio       student (million Rp.)    (million Rp.)
Jakarta            12.1               2.7                  1.0
Semarang           11.6               2.0                  1.0
Yogya              11.4               2.0                  1.1
Bandung            11.2               1.7                  0.9
Malang              9.4               2.1                  1.I
Medan               8.8               2.1                  1.2
Padang              8.7               2.4                  1.5
Surabaya            7.9               3.1                  1.6
Uj. Pandang         7.6               2.1                  1.3
Singaraja           7.2               2.8                  1.7
Manado              5.2               3.3                  1.8
Gorontalo           4.1               6.5                  4.1
AVERAGE             9.2               2.3                  1.2
2.    One measure of unit cost in education is the per student expenditure. Table 1 also
displays the per student total expenditure and routine budget for the IKIPs/STKIPs. The
institutions with the lowest student-teacher ratios have the highest per student total
spending and routine budget. Except for IKIP Ujung Pandang, all the other institutions
whose student teacher-ratios are below 8.7:1 have higher-than-average per student
spending. Since LPTKs spend more than half of their expenditures on staff salaries, the
low student-teacher ratio and high unit cost indicate that resources can be saved by raising
the student-teacher ratio.



Annex 17: Page 2 of 5                          89
3.    A very important factor to consider is quality when the efficiency of the LPTKs is
examined. If an institution with above-the-average resources used such resources
appropriately to improve its quality of teaching and research, and support well-designed
activities to provide students with a better educational experience, the high per student
spending might be justified. This is not the case with the LPTKs. Although there is no
systematic measurement of the quality of programs of the 12 public IKIPs/STKIPs and the
19 FKLPs, general perception suggests that the IKIPs/STKIPs with highest per student
spending do not necessarily offer the strongest programs. As a matter of fact, some of the
institutions with perceived high quality programs, such as IKIPs Bandung and Malang,
have lower-than-average per student spending. This points to the direction where the
efficiency of the LPTKs can be improved and resources saved.
4.    The Government has decided to raise the student-teacher ratio of the LPTKs to
12:1 over the period of the project, the average level for public universities in Indonesia.
The long term target is 15:1. The excess teaching staff would be assigned to secondary
schools and the Open University's inservice teacher training programs. This redeployment
would greatly enhance the capacity of the secondary schools since currently the majority
of the teachers in these schools are underqualified. It would also increase the access to
tutoring for the distance inservice teacher training programs of the Open University. These
programs provide courses to primary and secondary school teachers to upgrade their
qualifications and are rapidly expanding. In 1994-95 alone, they took 12,600 such
teachers. Currently, it offers programs in three areas of study: English, math and sciences.
The University hires lecturers from other universities as tutors, meet with the inservice
teachers twice a week to answer questions and help them learn.
5.    The redeployment will generate cost savings, measured by the wages that would
be paid for the positions the excess teaching staff would be assigned to. Currently, the
annual salary of a typical teaching staff in an IKIP or a university is Rp. 5.66 million
(US$2,520), the amount paid to civil servants in category G-III (d) on government salary
schedule. This figure is appropriate for calculating the cost savings for assigning excess
teaching staff to the Open University's tutoring positions. SI degree holders who become
secondary school teachers earn a starting salary of Rp. 3 million (US$1,336) per year. The
total amount of cost savings can be estimated based on these figures, if we had
information on the proportions of the excess teaching staff to be assigned to the Open
University and to secondary schools. Such information is not available at present. Table 2
demonstrates the estimated cost savings, assuming half of the teaching staff would become
tutors at the Open University and half would become secondary school teachers. The table
shows that the redeployment would save a total of US$4.7 million per year if the student-
teacher ratio of the LPTKs is raised to 12:1. The savings would almost double when the
ratio is raised to 15:1 in the future.



90                       Annex 17: Page 3 of 5
Table 2 Projected Savings
by Raising the Student-Teacher Ratio of the IKIPs/STKIPs
Student-teacher   Number of excess    Savings per year    Savings over 5 years
ratio        teachers       (in US$ million)  (in US$ million)
15            4,732             9.1               45.6
14            4,072              7.9              39.3
13            3,311              6.4              32.1
12            2,422              4.7              23.3
6.    Another unquantifiable, nevertheless important, benefit is more and stronger
linkages between the LPTKs and the secondary schools, which is among the primary goals
of the project.
Improving the efficiency of the project
7.    The reduction of the LPTK teaching staff will also improve the efficiency of the
project. Originally, it was estimated that office space and conference rooms were in
shortage for 6,000 LPTK teaching staff. It was proposed that about US$11.0 million
would be invested in building new offices and renovating existing facilities on an equal
basis in order to eliminate the shortage. Now that about 2,400 LPTK teaching staff would
be on assignment at secondary schools or the Open University, the number of spaces
needed would decrease from 6,000 to 3,600. As a result, the total estimated cost for
providing the offices and conference rooms by renovation would be reduced to about
US$3.1 million, generating nearly US$7.9 million in savings. The actual amount of savings
would be even larger after taking into account the maintenance expenditures that would be
necessary otherwise.
Sustainability of Project Interventions
Institutional sustainability
8.    Indonesia's human resource development strategy will provide very important
basis for the impact of the proposed project to sustain. Achieving the compulsory nine-
year basic education and improving quality are high priorities for the GOI. Recognizing
the critical role of quality teachers in achieving goals of educational development, the
Government will provide necessary support to the teacher training sector. The
Government's commitment to basic education and teacher training has been confirmed by
MENPAN's decision to allocate 25,000 new positions to MOEC for hiring in 1996-97
while in other government agencies the zero-growth policy in hiring civil servants is



Annex 17: Page 4 of 5                       91
strictly enforced. As secondary education expands, the capacity to absorb the new
graduates from LPTKs will be continuously strengthened.
9.    The LPTKs with strengthened capacity would also ensure that the impact of the
project will be sustained. The proposed project would provide assistance to the LPTKs to
establish quality assurance and accreditation mechanisms. These measures would enhance
the ability of the LPTKs for self-examination and ensure that the institutions will
continuously strive for quality improvement. The project would make teacher education's
link to secondary schools through practice teaching and school-based action research a
permanent feature of the LPTKs, enhancing the sustainability of the project impact. By
raising the student-teacher ratio, the LPTKs would free up resources that could be used to
provide other inputs to improve instruction and research, thereby contributing to the goals
of the project.
Financial sustainability
10.   The total cost of the proposed project is Rp. 197 billion, or US$88 million, of
which US$61 million would be provided by the Bank. This amount would be invested
over a five-year period. The average annual investment represents 2.6% of the DGHE's
total budget. Investment in some of the activities would require additional recurrent
expenditure in order for their effect to be sustained. These activities are: (a) purchase of
equipment and library books, and providing offices and conference rooms; (b) upgrading
staff qualifications; and (c) supporting linkages to schools and research.
11.   Under the project, a total of US$19.9 million (or averaging nearly US$4 million
annually) would be invested in purchasing science equipment and library books, and
providing offices and conference rooms. Currently, funds for maintenance and operation
(OPF) of the LPTKs equal about 23% of the investments. If the LPTKs continue this level
of OPF spending, the new investment would require an additional US$0.9 million in
recurrent expenditure.
12.   The project would also provide scholarships to 1,750 LPTK lecturers to pursue
graduate studies toward S2/S3 degrees. LPTK lecturers with 5-year working experience
are usually in Group 111(b) on the government wage schedule. Assuming some of them
receive project scholarships to study toward an S2/S3 degree and others remain teaching
with an SI degree. Ten years later, those with an S2/S3 degree would move up the rank
faster and be most likely in Group IV (a). According to the same wage schedule,
individuals within this category and with 15 years of seniority would be paid Rp. 6.1
million. Those with an SI degree would most likely be in Group 111(d) and paid Rp. 5.7
million per year. The difference in annual salaries for 1,750 teaching staff would total
about Rp. 745 million, or US$0.3 million.
13.   The project would provide an annual average of US$1.1 million (total of US$5.7
million) to strengthen linkages to secondary schools (excluding that for establishing



92                       Annex 17. Page S of 5
partnerships with foreign institutions) and strengthening educational research. In order for
the effects of these activities to be sustained, the same level of funding should be provided
by the Govermnent upon project completion.
14.   Table 3 shows that the estimated incremental recurrent expenditures total US$2.3
million in order for the project to sustain its impact. This amount represents about 3.5
percent of the current recurrent expenditure of the 12 IKIPs/STKIPs -- even lower if the
FKIPs are taken into account -- and about 0.6 percent of the DGHE recurrent budget
(Table 4). The incremental increase is small and unlikely to cause a financial burden to the
LPTKs or the DGHE.
Table 3 Incremental Increase in Annual Recurrent Expenditures
Amount
Purpose                        (US$ mnillion)
Maintenance                        0.9
Salaries                           0.3
Operation                          1.1
Total                              2.3
Table 4 Comparing the Incremental Increase
in Annual Recurrent Expenditure
(US$ million)
Annual incremental   IKIP/STKIP       DGHE
increase of        recurrent     recurrent         %
recurrent costs  expenditure ('94)   budget ('94)
A                 B              C         A/B    A/C
2.3              66.1           396.9      3.5    0.6
15.   Indeed, the incremental increase in recurrent expenditure would be more than
offset by the savings realized by raising student-teacher ratio to 12:1: US$4.7 per year
from redeploying about 2,400 excess teaching staff to secondary schools and the Open
University and a one-time US$7.9 from scaled-down construction of office
accommodations. The Government has been urged to increase recurrent commitments to
individual LPTKs as a result of these savings and as an incentive for further increasing the
student-teacher ratio to 15:1.



Chart I
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Project Management Organization Structure
[  DIRECTOR GENERAL
DIRECTOR
OF ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
[  PROJECT DIRECTOR/
|   DEVELOPMENT TEAM    l       TREASURER
PROJECT BENEFIT MONITORING
_   ONSULTANTS                                                  L EVALUATION
ISTAFF DEVELOPMENT  |                          PROCUREMENT FACILITY      |   CURRICULUM      ||RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT|
AND IN-SERVICE TRAINING                                                      DEVELOPMENT                 DEVELOPMENT
MASTERiDOCTO     SCHOLARSHIP_      IN-SERVIC-E        CII  OK             QIMN,BOS T.RSEARCH AND POLIC                             MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM_O       PROGRAM          TRAINING          CII   RSMN,BOS T.STUDIES                                                     DEVELOPMENT
3. SUBJECT-SPECIFIC PEDAGOGY
LINKAGES AND STUDENT SUPPORT          2. ENGLISH
SERVICES                   1. SOCIAL SCIENCES



Annex 18                                 93
INDONESIA
Secondary School Teacher Development Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
World Bank Documents
Memorandum of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors. "Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Indonesia." Report No. 13988-
IND. February 27, 1995.
Project Completion Report. "Indonesia: Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-
IND)." Report No. 10217. December 30, 1991
Project Performance Audit Report. "Indonesia: Fourth Education Project (Loan 1237-
IND)." Report No. 6312, June 30V 1986.
Project Performance Audit Report. "Indonesia: Fifth Education (First Teacher Training)
Project (Loan 1433-IND)." Report No. 6315. June 30, 1986
Staff Appraisal Report. "Indonesia: Primary School Teacher Development Project."
Report No. 10399-IND. May 13, 1992.
Project Cost Tables.
Government Documents
Decree of the Minister of Education and Culture. "Coordination Forum for Handling
Educational Manpower Supply and Development System." No. 0461/U/1990.
MOEC. "Project Proposal: Secondary School Teacher Development Project" June 1995.
_,__  "Operating Guidelines for Link Grants and Research Grants."
_,__ "Selection Criteria for National, International Fellowship Training, and Individual
Study Visits."
_,__ "Materials Required Prior to Negotiations." November 1995.
."__Inventory of Project Preparation Documents" (For Project Implementation Plan).
November 1995.
Raka Joni, T. R. "Creating the Foundation for National Accreditation of Teacher Training
Programs in Indonesia." 1989.
Consultant Studies
Somerset, H. C. A. "Quality Issues in General Secondary Education." 1989
_   "Secondary Teachers in Indonesia: Supply, Demand and Initial Preparation."
(Final Draft) November 1992
van den Berg, E. "Aspects of a Preparation Assistance Mission." July-August, 1994
"Teacher Training Financing in Indonesia."



IBRD 27463
,THAILAND                                                                                                                                    INDONESIA
A Al                                                                                                                                                SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER
BRUNEI ,                            PHILIPPINES                             DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
T7   MALAYS1A                        \s                           ,
*2                          /Yl \                                                                                                         S Or tPT,                    P*ROv'CE HEArOURTERS
/                                  - y  2   @   IlTlf STsIP   Ts  rNTIONA. CA TA
MALAYSIA  S                                                                     1tTO X                                    C UODAtTCEBO.N.RIES
_C^_SINGAPORE                                7                                            S
r ~~~zarxss ~~~~~~ / / > * >5 7 * ~~~~~~~~24 
2                                                                                     fdong7S  \,  _A        e-.-- cA!
'A -TA                                                                                      -                                     I.--
.-              DK                                                                                    A.24                                   _
- JMKAuT                                   JAKeARTA.'
D ACh                                 , 3j''     
-:TT GL IAIIT L4Ro 10      5ualln  4                              03   S  h4|
:AR   S' TEiGAs
-&AUA.JR T e      'NG  .-                                                   @  / M.  -          - \
-                                                                                                                             uAFGeEM Dnsr1 27?.> 
.   MsAlJNGGA      .-2 
IINKUL          T    >        .'                                Bo,o C-o
AA;                               BRoe*RR U.                                                              o                                                                                    ,T  -  Cr- 
AURA~                                                                                                                                         r               AUSTRAUA           -
1IFKIP U. SYIAH KUALA                  7  FKIP U. SRIWIJAYA                    13. FKIP U. SEBELAS MARET               1 9. FKIP U. NUSA CENDANA                25. STKIP GORONTALO
2, IKIP MEDAN                          8 .FKIP U LAMPUNG                        14 IKIP SUPABAYA                       20. FKIP U TANJUNG PUPA                  26 FKIP U TADULAKO
3 KIKP PADANG                           9  IKIP JAKARTA                         15. IKIP MALANG                        21. FKIP U. PALANGKARAYA                 27 FKIP U HALU OLEO
4 FKIP U, RIAU                          10. IKIP BANDUNG                        16 FKIP U. JEMBER                      22. FKIP U. LAMBUNG MANGKURAT            28. IKIP UJUNG PANDANG
SFKIP U. BENGKULU                       I11 IKIP SEMARANG                       17. STKIP SINGARAJA                    23 FKIP U. MULAWARMAN                    29. FKIP U. PATMUPA
6 FKIP U. JAMBI                         12. IKIP YOGYAKARTA                     18. FKIP U. MATARAM        .24. IKIP MANADO                                     30. FKIP U CENDERAWASIH
31. FKIP U. TERBUKA
SUAKWES, ~ ~         ~ ITAA.l.



IMAGING
REeport No!;      15028 !ND
Type: S'AP






