                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25276

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (CPL-39790; SCL-3979A; SCPD-3979S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                         SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT




                                              June 24, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective November 1995)

                             Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                               Rp 1 million = US$ 445
                                  US$ 1.00 = Rp 2,246
                                 ACADEMIC YEAR
                                    July 1 - June 30

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1      December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APKG     -     Student Teaching Observation Form
ASD      -     Academic Staff Deployment
CAS      -     Country Assistance Program
DO       -     Development Objectives
GOI      -     Government of Indonesia
ELA      -     Entry Level Student Assessment
ELAQA    -     Entry Level Student Assessment in Quality Assurance
IKIPs    -     Teacher training institutions with education and other faculty departments
LPTK     -     General term for Teacher Training Institution
MGMP     -     Teacher study circles or clusters
MOE      -     Ministry of Education
PPL      -     Field Experience Program
S1       -     Undergraduate Degree Program
S2       -     Master's Level Degree Program
S3       -     Docatorate Level Degree Program
SAR      -     Staff Appraisal Report
TTL      -     Task Team Leader
UPBK     -     Guidance and Counseling Implementation Units
UT       -     Open University



                            Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                Country Manager/Director:        Andrew D. Steer
                 Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         H. Dean Nielsen

                                         INDONESIA
                  SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribuion                                                  32

Project ID: P004003                                                      Project Name: SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: H. Dean Nielsen                                             TL Unit: OEDST
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHER                                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-39790; SCL-3979A;
                            DEVELOPMENT                                                              SCPD-3979S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (50%); Secondary education (48%); Central
                            government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P);
                            Gender (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/28/1992                                        Effective: 05/30/1996
   Appraisal:    06/08/1995                                            MTR: 04/01/1999                08/23/1999
    Approval:    02/20/1996                                         Closing: 10/01/2001               12/31/2001

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHER
                                           EDUCATION (DIKTI)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell J. Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Jimenez                               Marianne Haug EA3ER
Team Leader at ICR:             H. Dean Nielsen                                Alfonso F. de Guzman
ICR Primary Author:             H. Dean Nielsen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objective was to enhance the teaching-learning processes in secondary schools through
the improvement of teacher education in 31 public teacher training institutions. This objective remained
thoughout the project, except for the fact that the number of institutions was reduced to 30.

The objective highlights processes in secondary schools, but in reality the project was more focused on the
teacher training institutions. Therefore, there was little emphasis, both in project implementation and
evaluation, on the secondary school classroom and its processes. In any case, teacher education only
covers a subset of the determinants of enhanced teaching-learning processes. Much of the mix comes from
the other factors such as presence and quality of teaching-learning materials, teacher incentives,
management support for excellence, and community involvement. What the project appears to have
focused on -- in both implementation and monitoring -- were the kind of factors that higher educator can
leverage -- change within the teacher training institutions and their processes, including those which take
place at schools. In retrospect, it may have been better for such activities and processes to have been the
focal point of project objectives and for better teaching-learning processes at the schools to have been one
of the expected outcomes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No Revision

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Improving preservice and inservice teacher education ($30.6 million)

This component included curriculum revision (highlighting vertical and horizontal flexibility); provision of
science equipment; books and references; offices and conference rooms to select training institutions;
student support services and career planning; inservice education; and learning material development.

During a year two supervision mission the Bank team took the position that three of seven original project
subcomponents had the potential to directly effect project development objectives (DO) and thus began
tracking them in its DO ratings, namely student support services, inservice education, and learning
materials development. When the project was scaled back by nearly 50 percent in year three due to the
national economic crisis, three of the remaining four subcomponents, science equipment, books and
references, and offices and conference rooms were reduced in scope or canceled (offices and conference
rooms). The curriculum activity remained, but was so limited in scope that it was also poorly connected to
the teaching-learning objective of the project.

Component 2. Strengthening linkages to secondary schools ($5.4 million)

To strengthen linkages to secondary schools the project set out to improve the content of school-based
student teaching, redeploy substantial numbers of teacher training institution (LPTK) lecturers (who at the
beginning of the project were in oversupply) to secondary school teaching positions, and promote
collaboration between teachers and lecturers in conducting school based action research.

All aspects of this component can be considered directly and strongly related to school teaching-learning
processes and were appropriately used in assessing attainment of project objectives. The international
partnerships formed as a way of enhancing the project resource base were well conceived and useful at the
beginning but eventually domestic expertise appeared sufficient to drive these activities and given the need



                                                      - 2 -

to scale back on budget, the funding for international partnerships was appropriately cut.

Component 3. Raising qualifications of teacher educators ($32.4 million)

This component, meant to strengthen the professional qualifications and expertise of LPTK lecturers,
consisted of fellowships for national and international degree programs (Masters and Doctoral), refresher
courses at international centers of excellence, and related national workshops.

Given the fact that at Project appraisal a high proportion of teacher educators (80 percent) had only
received a bachelors degree (the same degree that they were offering new secondary school teachers) -- and
most from the institution where they were teaching -- this component can be considered an essential means
of raising professional competence related to secondary school instruction. When project recosting was
done, many of the subcomponents were reduced (especially the one covering the less efficient refresher
courses), but even at their scaled-back levels all subcomponents were maintained as proxies of development
objective attainment.

Component 4. Building educational research capacity ($2.9 million)

This component consisted of developing and using a system of entry level student and graduating student
assessment, and competetive research grants to encourage instructional improvement.

Given the fact that a large proportion of students admitted to the teacher training institutions have not
mastered the subject matter that they will be expected to teach (e.g., secondary school math or science or
language skills) a diagnotic tool and its use to guide remedial actions (tutoring) can be considered an
important potential contributor to project objective attainment. Use of the instrument for quality assurance
(in this Project meaning to test both entry-level and exit level mastery) also has the potential to leverage
program improvement. Also, given the low priority given in the teacher training institutions to effective
instruction by the lecturers themselves, the competitive grants were welcomed as highly visible means of
changing that. It is reasonable to note these subcomponents were included among the nine proxies of
project objective attainment.

Component 5. Preparing for a wider mandate ($1.1 million)

This component set out to examine, in four teacher training institutions (IKIPs) making the transition to
university status, issues of strategic planning, accreditation, and student career planning.

This component was never well connected to the project objective of fostering better teaching and learning
in secondary schools except in a negative sense -- converted training institutions were at risk of losing their
motivation and capacity for excellence in teacher education. Given that even before the Project results on
this component were ready, all ten public IKIPs converted to universities, the importance of this component
in policy formulation and program development was undermined. It was appropriately not included as a
proxy for project objective attainment.

3.4 Revised Components:
All of the components were maintained throughout the project, but their levels of funding were changed due
to the cost-cutting requirements, as follows (the letter after the cost figure reflects their ratings at the time
of cost reduction):
1. Improving preservice and inservice teacher education ($9.5 million); S
2. Strengthening linkages to secondary schools ($3.8 million); S


                                                      - 3 -

3. Raising qualifications of teacher educators ($19 million); S
4. Building educational research capacity ($3 million); S
5. Preparing for a wider mandate ($0.8 million); NR


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although no formal Quality at Entry assessment was made of the project, it is possible to get a sense of the
adequacy of project preparation and design through document review, namely by project adherence to the
Country Assistance Strategy and by its response to external reviews. The 1995 Country Assistance
Strategy for Indonesia called for a lending program that would address critical issues in human resources
development, especially those related to educational quality, and for the adoption of strategies supportive of
the country's transition towards more regional autonomy, including that in higher education. The project
was well designed to deliver higher levels of educational quality at the teacher training institutions, and
placed appropriate and adequate emphasis on institutional development and autonomy. Less well designed
were features that would allow the development objective of improving the teaching-learning processes in
secondary schools.

Project external reviewers were supportive of the main features of institutional improvement for teacher
training but questioned whether the project had built adequate mechanisms for coordination and
communication among institutions, such that innovations and changes in lead institutions would be shared
across the entire network. Related to that were concerns about the lack of engagement of accreditation or
national policy bodies in the exercise of quality assurance. In fact, there were problems of communications
and sharing and quality assurance was not a strong project feature. A national Directorate for Teacher
Education was established during the life of the project but too late for it to have a major impact on policy
change. Another point by reviewers was the project's lack of attention to changes in the labor market for
secondary school graduates and issues of national competitiveness in productivity. Although it could be
asserted that curriculum design for secondary schools was beyond the scope of this teacher development
project, it can be argued that the project should have paid more attention to both the content and processes
of teaching and learning in secondary schools. Finally, there was a reviewers' call for a more coherent and
forward looking view of the teacher education system and its organization, given the pending
transformation of training colleges into universities. In retrospect, it seems that system was overwhelmed
by the scope and pace of transformations that did take place, which might have been better absorbed had
more strategic planning and holistic thinking been done.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The attainment of the project object, "to enhance the teaching-learning processes in secondary schools
through the improvement of teacher education in 31 public teacher education institutions," can not be
directly assessed, at least the first part, since the project did not systematically collect data on changes in
teaching and learning at the secondary school classroom level. What can be assessed is the improvement of
teacher education, as follows:

Improving pre-service and in-service teacher education
Curriculum. A key task in this component was the preparation of new curriculum materials in English,
social sciences, and subject-specific pedagogy and the creation of vertical, horizontal, and external
flexibility. Though the curricula have been field-tested, and, in the case of intensive English course
materials, adopted in many institutions, system-wide adoption was in doubt in late 2002 (near the end of the
project) since national guidelines released at that time leave it up to each institution to create its own



                                                        - 4 -

curricular materials. Thus, the Project materials were distributed to the group of 31 institutions as
exemplary curriculum materials which the institutions could use in creating their own. Vertical flexibility
(the ability to teach at both lower and upper secondary school levels) was improved through specific
changes in social science and subject specific pedagogy courses and field experience programs. External
flexibility was found to some extent in the English language programs. However, horizontal flexibility
(endorsement to teach more than one subject matter) was not established during during the Project. The
main vehicles to be provided, the use of double majors or major-minor options, were not observable during
the project, since such options were only seen as coming at the end of a program and the first cohort of
those experiencing Project revised curricula had not yet finished their initial majors.

Science and language laboratory equipment. Science equipment provided under the project, while
utilized in some laboratories, was not used in other places due to a lack of complimentary material, e.g.
software, nitrogen gas, etc. Problems in the maintenance of science equipment were also noted, at least in
part a problem of inadequate training. Foreign language laboratories, used mostly for English language
instruction, were well received and intensively used, but the lack of student keyboards prevents students
from being able to use the labs to improve their writing skills.

Distance education modules. The lack of enthusiasm for the Open University (UT) approach to inservice
teacher training activities (upgrading), and its eventual discontinuation under the project, has meant that
some 120 modules developed by the Open University for teacher upgrading (20 more than the target) are
not being utilized widely in the campus-based teacher training programs. However, they are being used as
basic texts for the distance inservice training programs managed by the Open University (ten of thousand of
students) no longer included as part of this Project. If the best of these modules could be made available to
the other teacher training institutions for their inservice programs, the returns on investment could be
increased.

In-service education. A major potential contribution has been made to the improvement of classroom
instruction by the Project's placing 18,725 lower and upper secondary school teachers in inservice training
programs for their upgrading to the S1 degree. Both faculty and participants spoke positively about the
program which was selective and rigorous. Of those placed almost 15,000 graduated (an 80 percent
completion rate); of the graduates 56 percent were women, and 58 percent lower secondary school teachers
(compared to the originally planned 77 percent). It is not clear why lower than expected numbers of lower
secondary school teachers received the scholarships. With the cancellation of the Open University program,
the project was less well equipped to reach rural and remote school teachers than planned -- although some
LPTKs provided remote access to courses and outreach was still being made by the Open University
through its own resources. Studies showed that inservice course participants did just as well as inservice
program graduates on cognitive outcomes and teaching skills (based on head teacher and student feedback).
(Unfortunately, the study did not include the kind of direct observation of teaching skills used in the regular
preservice courses.) The program was undeniably popular among teachers, evidenced by its continuation
with those willing to pay their own fees and the demand for it by private universities and distant provinces,
presumably because of its help to them in reaching higher levels in the civil service (an important incentive
for a serverly underpaid and under-appreciated teaching force). It also showed its capacity to increase
teacher knowledge -- important in a teaching force where even mastery of the secondary school curriculum
is weak. Improvement in teaching skills was probably not (and probably cannot be) strongly affected by
such programs, since generally this requires more "hands on" approaches, like those featured in the action
research programs and faculty deployment systems described below under university-school linkages.

Student support services. Student support services (3S) have been established in 30 LPTKs to improve
student study skills and adjustment to university life, but their best benefits are only being realized in about


                                                       - 5 -

a third of them, the ten which have developed entry level tests to identify weak subject mastery and are
providing tutoring for the underprepared students. Even in those the most needful students (those with low
entry level scores) are not always reached since tutoring is not required. The Centers are managed by staff
trained in guidance and counseling, not academic remediation. Some remediation activity seems to be done
at subject departments, e.g. English at UNM and not at the center. One notable feature, used in many
locations, but whose effectiveness is not yet established, is peer tutoring. While well-qualified students can
help their peers, other limitations, e.g. time, teaching ability, may not be adequate. Career counseling has
also been established at some universities, but no data available to assess how effective it is.

Improved linkages to secondary schools
There was a significant increase in the activities between the teacher education institutions (LPTKs) and
the schools through highly valued classroom action research and deployment of 902 lecturers to schools.
The classroom action research which partners LPTK lecturers with classroom teachers in examining the
teaching learning process in schools increased lecturer knowledge of current practices in the secondary
schools and connected them to the real world of teachers. The deployed lecturers worked as teachers, on
action research, and community service. A model field experience program was developed that included a
handbook and manual that was tried out with partner schools at all LPTKs. Supervising lecturers and
cooperating teachers were trained in the use of the field experience handbook and manual. There was no
systematic pre-/posttest data collected to determine if the performance of student teachers changed as a
result of the increased linkages to secondary schools; nor do we know if lecturers/teachers improved their
teaching as a result of the school linkages program and their action research. Observations during site visits
and feedback from lecturers, teachers and administrators were supportive of the linkages and some LPTKs
are using their own budgets to continue these activities beyond the project. Partnerships with international
universities were supported for the first two years of the project. The economic crisis curtailed project
support but five LPTKs continued the partnerships on their own.

Raising the qualifications of teacher educators
Graduate degrees. Using domestic universities and creative means of accessing international ones
(particularly in Germany, France, and Holland, where university placement agents were used) the project
delivered most of its planned graduate degrees. Virtually all masters and most doctoral programs were in
the subject fields or disciplines, which was the plan at the masters level but not the doctoral where a
balance of disciplinary and pedagogical studies was expected. Also, the process of candidate selection and
placement appeared less reliant on institutional needs analysis than expected. The drop-out rate from
degree programs has been quite low (less than 10% for the international doctoral candidates) but several
doctoral programs are still in progress (about 25%). For any students needing time beyond the project
closing date to finish, the universities (or in a few cases the students themselves) have agreed to cover the
remaining costs. Masters and doctoral returnees have almost all returned to teaching in their former
departments, and show increased levels of academic output (research, journal writing, involvement in
academic conferences). There is some evidence (self-reports and comments from Deans) of improvement in
their own teaching and reports of higher satisfaction among students about the returning lecturers'
instruction and thesis supervision (based on tracer studies of 50-60% of returnees) -- but there was no
systematic/objective assessment of improved teaching competence. Few of them gained specific training
and new expertise on improving quality of teacher education programs; most are more oriented to the
non-education programs of the wider mandate institutions and often research that can only be done overseas
(e.g., physics research in France). The overall goal of the project ­ to increase the proportion of faculty
holding a post bachelor's degree to above 45 percent -- was exceded (as of 2001 it was 51.5 percent;
counting faculty in the pipeline 63.2 percent), with as much as one third of the change attributable to the
project.




                                                       - 6 -

Refresher courses and faculty workshops. Of the 150 refresher courses that were planned only 22 ­ the
first round -- of them were undertaken. Since they were found to be relatively expensive (compared to
potential impact), subsequent rounds were canceled during the cost reduction. Of the 22 only eight yielded
booklets which were published and distributed. There is little sign of their having been used (except by
producers and reviewers) or visible/available at the receiving institutions ­ and no faculty workshops on
them were held, as planned.




                                                     - 7 -

Building Educational Research Capacity
Entry level student assessment (ELA) and Quality Assurance. ELA instruments were developed at ten
LPTKs and have been used constructively by the institutions to identify students lacking pre-requisite
knowledge (secondary school content) and prepare remedial programs, usually at the student support
service centers. Some institutions have made remediation mandatory and some not; also some use only
faculty members as tutors and whereas others involved peer tutors. Feedback directly to faculties and
departments for use in course development does not seem to have been done systematically. The use of the
instrument for quality assurance (end-of-program testing) was done, but at most for two years. In some
programs there was significant change; in others not, a finding at least in part influenced by the fact that
students and faculty did not take the post-test very seriously. At least one institution showed that results
were better when student tutoring was undertaken. The intended use of the student teaching observation
form (APKG) for summative evaluation of trainees' teaching skills was done only at two institutions with
results which are not conclusive.

Research on the improvement of instruction. Originally meant to cover up to five studies per year, this
program grew to significant proportions (229 grants awarded in all) and was accompanied by publications
and workshops which have had a positive impact on lecturer attention to their own teaching and student
outcomes. However, there are no data to actually document improved instruction.

Preparing for a Wider Mandate
Originally the project proposed the preparation of two to three IKIPs for future conversion to universities.
Four IKIPs were selected to participate in conversion to university status with support from the project.
Institutions preparing for conversion were to provide graduates with three types of competencies: vertical -
the ability to teach at lower and upper secondary levels; horizontal - the ability to teach 2 to 3 subjects;
external - the ability to compete for employment other than teaching. The time needed to grow and develop
into a university was estimated at between 5 and 15 years. As IKIPs came to recognize the status
improvements connected to this conversion they all applied for and were granted the permission to convert
during the project period. This process was accelerated by a Presidential Decree in support of the
conversion in 1999. The impact of these conversions on teacher education has yet to be assessed. One of
the immediate results is that the academic qualifications of the intake students has increased, nearing and
even surpassing that of the established universities. A stimulating academic environment may positively
impact teacher education if the better qualified students select teaching as a career. However, there is no
guarantee that these students will pursue teacher education. As non-education programs increase,
competition for resources could adversely affect teacher education. Thus, during the project the goal of
converting a few IKIPs to universities was "overfulfilled" but with questionable results with respect to the
quality of teacher education offered and teachers produced. It is crucial that former IKIPs monitor this
during the first years of their new wider mandate status, tracing number and characteristics of their
graduates who enter the teaching force, and making changes in their programs if it turns out that too few of
their good students are going into teaching.

The accreditation system, including peer evaluation elements, proposed in the project evolved into a less
rigorous self-evaluation system. Under the direction of the Director General of Higher Education,
self-evaluation reports are now required as part of the institution's annual budget request, a positive first
step. However, stronger accreditation measures will be needed if the government is serious about improving
the quality of teacher education, especially given the increased number of private universities and faculties
offering teacher education.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Improving pre-service and in-service teacher education



                                                      - 8 -

Curriculum improvement. Three curricula developed and pretested: Intensive English in 8 LPTKs,
Social Sciences in 3 LPTKs, and Subject-Specific Pedagogy in 3 LPTKs. The horizontal flexibility
features of the English and Social Sciences curricula (allowing double majors and major-minor) were not
tried out during the Project implementation.

Science equipment. Using the Basic Science Team Standards, biology, chemistry, mathematics and
physics equipment was purchased and installed in 12 of 16 planned LPTKs. Support for the last 4 was
taken out of the Project under cost reduction and covered by GOI funds. At one institution the science
laboratory was renovated and is used for S1 students practicum. Science laboratory storage facilities were
installed at two LPTKs. As an added feature to the Project, English language laboratory equipment to
support the implementation of the English curriculum developed by the SSTD English Development Team
was purchased and installed in 6 LPTKs; in two others supplementary language laboratory equipment was
provided.

Secondary textbooks and education references. Textbooks used in lower and upper secondary schools
were purchased and distributed to all LPTKs. Biology, chemistry, and physics textbooks (7 of the targeted
75, scaled back to 12 under cost reduction) were translated from English to Indonesian, published, and
distributed to all LPTKs except UNPATTI due to civil disturbances in Maluku. Eight of the 22 refresher
course program textbooks (scaled back from 150) were published and distributed to all public LPTKs.

Student support services. Student Support Centers were established at 30 LPTKs. A model program was
set up at the State University of Padang (formerly IKIP Padang) and National Seminars held to discuss the
"3S" program and its effectiveness as documented in studies at 14 LPTKs. Students having low Entry
Level Scores were identified in 7 LPTKs and other instruments for detecting learning problems were
developed and used in 30 LPTKs.

In-service education for secondary school teachers. A total of 18725 scholarships for upgrading
secondary teachers from D3 to S1 were awarded, exceeding the project target of 18,000 (14,000 for SLTP
and 4,000 for SMU). Upgrading of 600 teachers through the Open University was cancelled due to cost
containment.

Learning materials development. Basic course outlines were developed and reviewed for twelve
subject-specific pedagogy areas. Modules (120 compared to the planned 100) were produced for use in the
distance learning program of the Open University (UT). Since upgrading via UT was not undertaken under
the project, the modules were not used in the project. However, they are still being used by UT for with its
non-project supported students.

Offices and conference rooms. Staff offices were remodeled and renovated at 12 LPTKs and are being
designated for meetings between students and lecturers as evidenced by office hours posted on office doors.
However, there are not data to show whether such office hours are being maintained by lecturers.

Strengthening linkages to secondary schools
Supporting school linkages. A total of 912 lecturers, from eleven LPTKs, were redeployed to secondary
schools under the academic staff deployment (ASD) program (well below the 2400 mentioned in the SAR
but reduced to an undetermined number during cost-reduction). They worked in a variety of activities:
teaching, action research, student counseling, learning material improvement, and community service. For
Field Experience Program (PPL) a handbook and manual were developed. Tryout of new PPL models were
conducted by LPTKs and partner schools in all LPTK. There was a total of 180 partner schools with an



                                                     - 9 -

average of 6 partner schools per LPTK. A total of 6140 cooperating teachers and supervising lecturers
were trained to use PPL materials (far above original expectations). At total of 559 classroom action
research studies (far more than planned expectations), conducted by teacher-lecturer partners, were selected
for funding in five batches. National seminars were held where findings from research were reported.
National evaluation of CAR was conducted and results shared at a national seminar in December 2001.

Partnerships with foreign institutions. IKIPs were partnered with international universities with strong
teacher education programs. Ohio State University was partnered with Malang, Bandung, and Surabaya;
the University of Iowa with Padang, Medan, and Manado; Curtin University of Technology with
Semarang, Yogyakarta, and Gorontalo; and LaTrobe University with Makassar, Singaraja, and Jakarata.
International visits followed by in-country workshops for dissemination of new ideas were conducted
during the first two years of the project before the international activities were discontinued as a result of
financial crisis. Some LPTKs (Makassar, Malang, Surabaya, IKIP Singaraja, Bandung) continued the
international partnerships with their respective partners (OSU and La Trobe) even after project funding
was terminated.

Raising the qualifications of teacher educators
Master's programs. Domestic S2 program fellowships and international masters programs were awarded
to 1301 and 57 teacher educators, respectively. The original targets were 1450 in national universities and
150 in international universities, adjusted to 1250 and 60, respectively. The completion rate for the
domestic masters program was 84 percent. The international masters degrees were taken in Australia (28),
United States (4), Canada (12), United Kingdom (12) and New Zealand (1). The completion rate for the
international masters program was 93 percent.

Doctorate program. Domestic doctoral program fellowships taken in academic departments in prominent
universities were awarded to 16 teacher educators with appropriate S2 qualifications (compared to 20
planned -- adjusted from 50). International doctoral fellowships were awarded to 105 teacher educators
(the original target was 100). About half (53) of the doctoral students are still completing their programs;
thus this part of the project is being extended to December 31, 2002. Countries for doctoral studies are:
Australia (17), United States (4), United Kingdom (2), Holland (27), France (33), Germany (21), and
Malaysia (1).

Refresher courses and faculty workshops. Short-term refresher courses were made available to 22
teacher educators (of the original 150 planned -- reduced due to cost-cutting). Course-related materials
were developed by the returnees from the refresher program. Of the materials developed 14 were deemed
worthy of publication. These were revised, eight were published and distributed to all the public LPTKs.

Building educational research capacity
Entry-level student assessment. Diagnostic tests to assess entry level knowledge (ELA) for 10 study
programs (mathematics, physics, biology, chemistry, English, B. Indonesia, history, geography, civics, and
economics) were developed and administered at 10 LPTKs (no clear target number). Results of ELA were
disseminated to 3S teams at LPTKs. Program coordinators and lecturers from the other 20 LPTK attended
ELA training conducted in Bogor and Surabaya in Feb. 2000.

Quality assurance. Training for use of ELA in quality assurance (ELAQA) in four subjects was
conducted at 30 LPTKs. Exit-level testing of content knowledge was conducted at 4 LPTKs (UM, UNM,
UNESA, and UNP). Exit level assessment of teaching skills was conducted at two institutions, UNESA
and UNP. (No target numbers were specified).



                                                      - 10 -

Research on the improvement of instruction. Due to high demand and large number of proposals this
program was expanded from an original target of 5 studies per year to over 50 per year (229 in all over
four years). Each year (from 1999-2001) national seminars were held to discuss the studies' findings. The
results of twenty of research studies were published in Parameter, an accredited education journal of State
University of Jakarta.

Preparing for a wider mandate
Planning for a wider mandate. All ten public IKIPs became universities (compared to the planned two to
three) and the two public STKIPs to IKIPs (unplanned).

Preparing for accreditation. A guide book for self-evaluation was completed and distributed for
required use by all LPTKs.

Career planning. Career information services were set up at UPBK (Guidance and Counseling
Implementation Units) in 12 LPTK. Training for the other 18 institutions conducted in 1999. Information
was developed regarding types of competencies, occupations, vacancies, and training in education and
non-education careers relevant to LPTK graduates.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
During project implementation the Government of Indonesia created the post of Director for Teacher
Education within the Directorate General for Higher Education, an important institutional development
which had been recommended by the Bank since the launching of the Primary School Teacher Development
Project in 1992. This appointment, although coming later than hoped, has provided teacher educators a
voice in the Directorate General and created a locus for policy and program development. It came at a time
of Indonesia's move to more university autonomy and accountability, and after the conversion of ten public
teacher training institutions to universities (IKIPs). That conversion was another important development
impact of the project. Expected to proceed slowly, using planning and institutional development
instruments created under the project in two to three institutions, the conversion quickly gathered
momentum and by the end of the project had occurred, for better or for worse, in all 10 public IKIPs.
Under the project's component "preparing for a wider mandate," the first step in an accreditation processes
(institutional self-assessment) was launched which the Director General now requires to be used and
submitted along with budget requests annually. One of the observable implications of the conversion is an
increase in the quality of applicants to the former IKIPs, in some places now at par with that of more
established universities.

At the project level, a high level of managerial capacity and productivity was noted in Bank supervision
documents. All project components were managed by prominent teacher educators, many of whom are at
the forefront of institutional reform in their own institutions. The team, which grew in effectiveness over
the years, was remarkably stable throughout project implementation (especially given the fact that the
nation's President and Minister of Education changed four times). Some external technical assistance was
sought in relation to graduate student placement and other technical features of the project, but for the
organization and production of project outputs all management was done by Indonesia's own teacher



                                                      - 11 -

educators.

At the university level, institutional development is often portrayed in terms of the professional
qualifications of the teaching staff. Here there were also dramatic developments during the project
(although not only as a result of the project). Whereas at the beginning of the project over three quarters of
lecturers held the S1 degree (generally from the institution itself), at the end more than half were possessors
of the S2 or S3 degree; counting those lecturers currently in S2/S3 training the proportion stands at 63
percent. Project managers and university officers comment on improved academic environment that has
resulted from this shift. In addition, many project innovations are being institutionalized. For example,
many institutions now routinely do entry-level assessments of new students and provide remediation for
those whose prerequisite knowledge is deficient. Remediation is being conducted under the Student
Support Services which have a permanent place on campus together with Career Planning Services,
including those for students who are non-education majors. Also expected to be covered by routine budgets
at the participating institutions are the improved methods of student teaching (codified in implementation
manuals), lecturer redeployment to secondary schools (temporary attachments as teachers and partners in
action research), and classroom action research, often funded the LPTK's research center.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Near the middle of the projects second year (late 1997) a financial crisis swept through Asia, and hit
Indonesian particularly hard -- in 1998 there was a negative growth rate of around 15 percent. Foreign
investors and capital fled the country and severe devaluation (and attendant inflation) ensued. This put
severe pressure on the national budget and foreign exchange reserves leading to a policy decision to reduce
indebtedness. The direct consequence for the Project was almost a 50 percent reduction in the size of the
World Bank loan. The major indirect influence was the impact on schools (and thus the attainment of
quality improvement goals): by 1998-99 schools began experiencing real declines in financial support
(covering books, facilities, etc.); teacher pay increases were undercut by inflation. In Indonesia the
financial crisis was accompanied by political crisis ­ the resignation of President Suharto after more than
thirty years of absolute rule, followed by three new presidents in the course of two years. With the four
changes in presidency came four changes in the Minister of Education, which meant constant changes in
MOE direction and emphasis and uncertainty for Project strategy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
By the end of the Project's second year government budgets for education had diminished in real terms,
including that for teacher salaries, instructional materials and school maintenance. Thus, even if the project
was doing a better job of preparing teachers and improving learning processes, other contextual factors
mitigated against quality improvement. In addition, by 1999 the Government promulgated an ambitious
policy of decentralization (to the district level), which has not yet been well articulated in education service
delivery and has led to much confusion as to who is in charge of what. By the end of the project, when
decentralization was in full swing, there was concern about district's ability to maintain even the current
low outlays for education ­ factors further threatening school quality. A policy related to teacher
education, already in place in the project's first year, was that of zero growth in government staff positions.
The fact that a low proportion of LPTK graduates were being hired acted as a damper on interest in the
teaching profession and drove many potential teachers into non-teaching fields. Another major personnel
issue is the fact that full time university lecturers are appointed as civil servants having tenure from the
beginning. This prevents the university from using some of the conventional performance indicators --
excellence in teaching, research productivity, and university/community service -- as incentives for
promotion and tenure. Instead university staff are drawn into project work, consultancies, and outside



                                                       - 12 -

teaching as ways to increase their stature and incomes.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project got underway quickly with a management team more skilled in moving materials and
infrastructural development than quality improvement, resulting in some delays/distortions in the latter.
Also, the Director General in place at the beginning of the project, using the prevailing ideology of
providing the same assets to all institutions, overrode project design features of selective strengthening
(using the project to strengthen lead institutions which would influence the others). Among other things,
this meant that more science equipment was distributed than was called for in the plan, equipment which
later was found to be underutilized and poorly maintained. In addition, the Directorate General relaxed
controls over the number of teacher training institutes that could be converted to universities and the
processes for making the transition. As a result all IKIPs made the transition with unknown consequences
with respect to the status of teacher education. In the project management there was a reluctance to recruit
consultants, for reasons which are unclear at the beginning but eventually related to cost reduction efforts.
As a consequence none were used. This seems to have had two opposing impacts: one was positive
pressure on project managers and team leaders to develop the needed management capacity (see section 4.5
on institutional development impact); the other was a missed opportunity for quality improvement inputs,
especially on project features such as curricular design and quality assurance systems.

Certain MOE policies also had an impact on project implementation. First the policy to create a new
teacher education curriculum by 2002 (the first post-project year), using a competency-based model. Since
new curricular guidelines were only expected to specify required outcomes and leave the ways of reaching
them up to the institutions (under principles of institutional autonomy), the kind of national curriculum that
was being prepared by the project was out of date by the project's end. Second, the Ministry made a
decision to allow LPTKs to conduct inservice teacher training. Previously, this had only been the realm of
the Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education assisted by the Open University. The
decision to allow other institutions of higher education to do this brought large numbers of new clients to
LPTKs, allowing them to be selective. That plus the wider mandate helped former IKIPs to increase their
student teacher ratios, on average, from 9.4:1 to 13.4:1, resulting in large improvements in institutional
efficiency.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A significant cost reduction effort was undertaken during the project's third year at the request of the
Ministry of Finance, which was under pressure to reduce indebtedness. For PGSM this meant reducing
Bank financing from a total of US$60.4 million to US$30.4 million. It was extremely difficult to cut that
much from the budget, and some components clearly suffered (see above). Nevertheless, the project
adjusted and eventually accommodated to the lower funding levels. In fact, in the end the Project had a
balance of just under US$2 million, most of which was from the category of international fellowships (19
percent of the total allocated for that category). Some of these programs were less expensive than
expected, some were covered by other sources of funds, and some were not completed before the end of the
project (also requiring other sources of funds for completion).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Government has put particular emphasis on sustainability during the project's last two years. Planning
for it has included creating field-tested manuals covering such things as student teaching and career
counseling, holding dissemination workshops, creating new incentives (e.g., for action research) or
exploiting olds ones (e.g., for inservice training), and pressing for funding commitments from both the
central government and the teacher training institution. A promising development in the current, first


                                                      - 13 -

post-project year has been the creation of a government funded project which will continue the work of
transition planning and institutionalization during the next four years (see below). Institutionalization is
already apparent in many LPTKs where project programs are being covered by the institutions' own
budgets. Given the reduction of funds for higher education during the prolonged economic crisis in
Indonesia, financial support, even for the best programs, will be hard won.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.     Transition arrangements to regular operations:
As mentioned in 6.1 above, the Directorate General has mounted a government-funded project which is
managing the transition to regular operations: the institutionalization of project innovations. Many of the
PGSM managers are members of this transition. The team will evaluate project-developed programs and
products and make recommendations about what to institutionalize and how. Transition managers are
distinguishing between further development costs, which the center might fund, and recurrent costs, which
should be borne by the teacher training institutions.

There are indications that individual institutions are beginning to cover project costs with their own routine
funds. For example, some institutions will put funding in their research center budgets for the kind of
classroom action research pioneered by the project. Similarly, some institutions are already bearing the
costs of entry-level assessment, tutoring for under-prepared students, and expanded/improved student
teaching. Academic staff deployment (temporary placements of lecturers in secondary schools) is popular
at many institutions but funding my be hard to obtain. In at least one institution (UN Malang)
arrangements were made for the head of the local educational office to take a study tour to the US, funded
by the university's international partner. This educational office head now provides local government
funding support for staff deployment and other LPTK-school linkages. Transition team members are also
trying to convince universities to use non-monetary incentives for implementing project innovations: for
example, helping staff to get the maximum functional credit units (used for promotion) out of the activities
undertaken cooperatively under school linkages (training, research, and teaching).

Finally, some project activities will continue because of incentives that are already in place. For example,
secondary school teachers will continue to seek inservice training, and pay for it with their own money,
because it contributes heavily to their own promotion. In fact, it is likely that project funding never was
needed to get this moving; only the permission granted by the Ministry of Education to LPTKs to conduct
inservice training (originally only given to the Open University). Such training could be further extended
beyond the regular catchment of the university by granting the LPTKs permission to do distance education.
Raising the qualifications of teaching staff will also continue since the motivation of staff is high and
alternative sources of funding keep appearing, both foreign (bilateral agencies) and domestic.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was designed to support the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia that was
presented to the Board on March 21, 1995. The Bank's strategy called for continued assistance to
Indonesia in meeting its development objectives through a lending program that would address critical
issues in human resource development, especially those related to education quality: increasing
expenditures on education, better distribution of teachers, staff training, and learning materials. The focus
of assistance in education and training was to be decentralized to the regional and provincial levels with
emphasis on the individual teacher training institution as the unit of development ­ in case of this project to
the 31 LPTKs. Project preparation included a small group of professionals with a good mix of experience
in both teacher training institutions and Indonesian schools. One of those professionals continued as a


                                                     - 14 -

consultant to supervision missions during the entire lifetime of the project.

A major shift in Project strategy came in mid-1998 when, given a major financial and budget crisis, the
government asked for a major cut in the Project budget. The Task Team Leader was asked to reduce Bank
financing by almost 50 percent. The TTL, with the help of economist from the Bank, constructively
engaged the Directorate General and project management in adjusting output targets and unit costs to
reflect current prices and feasible implementation. Costly activities, especially those involving expenditures
in foreign currency, were scaled down or eliminated. Project activities considered essential to achieving
Project development objective were jointly identified by project management and the Bank mission and
recalculated for loan financing, including student support services, in-service education, books and
references, linkages with secondary schools, deployment of lecturers to secondary schools, international
partnerships, entry-level assessment, and research on instruction.

Restructuring resulted in the cancellation of the third batch of science equipment, refresher courses,
upgrading through UT, and remainder of office renovations. Targets for national and international masters
degrees were adjusted as were national targets for doctoral studies.

One unexplainable lapse was lack of any performance indicators for the main development objective of the
project, the enhancement of the teaching-learning processes in secondary schools. Proxies for this were
developed and used in the creation of supervision ratings, but the question still remains: did these processes
improve? At the very least there could have been a study of the improvement of classroom teaching skills
among the 15,000 teachers who received inservice training.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision during the life of the project was remarkably stable with the same task team leader
serving for four of the Project's five years and his replacement being a person with over 20 years of
experience in Indonesia, including that in teacher education. Also, the same teacher training consultant
joined every supervision mission. Nevertheless there was some momentum lost in the transition from one
TTL to the other, especially in the tracking of project impact indicators and in planning for sustainability.
In 1997 a rating scale was introduced for use during supervision missions. This rating scale was taken
seriously by the project management team as it represented an average of those components contributing
directly to the Project's development objective. With the introduction of the rating scale, project
productivity increased and the overall project rating was considered to be more transparent.

Mission reports show some gaps in the Bank's financial management and supervision. Reports to the
Government on disbursement were seen as irregular and supervision of procurement somewhat
problematic. The decentralization of higher education moved procurement to the various teacher training
institutions with the CPIU acting as reviewer. Insufficient Bank-led training at these institutions in
procurement and financial management meant that Bank guidelines were often not followed nor standard
formats used. However, post-review of documents revealed no substantial procurement irregularities
during the life of the Project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of Bank performance is satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the preparation stage, a six person team was designated to design the project. The work of this team
was fully supported by the Directorate General of Higher Education and WB Consultants. International



                                                      - 15 -

study visits were made by team members to teacher education institutions with particular emphasis on
institutions having strong teacher education programs and those converted from normal schools to colleges
or universities. During preparation the Borrower took seriously the Bank's concern for institutional
efficiency and agreed to a redeployment of some LPTK staff to secondary schools in order to raise the
average student-faculty ratio to 12:1. This was also consistent with the Government's personnel policy at
the time of zero growth. A good beginning, and a practice repeated during the project was the bringing
together of LPTKs and stakeholders in Secondary Education for talks about strengths and weaknesses ­
and programs for improvement ­ in teacher education institutions and secondary schools.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The same group of key project preparation persons remained with the project as leaders throughout
implementation. Only two project managers were used, one person with proven project management skills
(to get the project going) and the other a person with deep understanding of the processes of both LPTKs
and secondary schools (to provide substantive leadership). GOI provided sufficient counterpart funds in
spite of the financial crisis at mid-project. One weakness, however, was the frequent late allocation of
counterpart funds, caused by the fluctuating political and financial conditions during the crisis-ridden years
of the project, meaning that some activities needed to be rushed (compressed into the last weeks of the
fiscal year) and others (like dissemination workshops) curtailed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Full support was given by the Central Project Implementation Unit consisting of education experts and
professionals from education institutions, development teams, advisory committee, and sufficient number of
dedicated administrative staff. The project was closely supervised by Director General of Higher
Education and Director for Academic Affairs and, since 1999, the holder of a new GOI position, the
Director of Teacher Education and Higher Education Personnel. The success of the project was due to
adequate coordination by the project management and minimum intervention from the government as to
project's technical management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In most areas the project delivered targeted outputs. An encouraging point is the efforts made toward
sustainability. Many LPTKs have instituted plans to raise funds to continue school linkages, implement
enriched student teaching, and continue school partnerships and action research. The main area of
underperformance was the Borrower's weakness in gathering evidence to demonstrate improved instruction
and learning at the LPTKs and secondary school levels. The overall performance rating for the Borrow is
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. Innovation process. This project demonstrates how a relatively small investment (50 percent less than
originally allocated) can generate useful breakthroughs and innovations in teacher education, a field
generally considered to be conservative and resistant to change. The project's model of using centers of
innovation to create and try out, on a limited scale, new curricula, student screening and enrichment
programs, stronger linkages to secondary schools, improved student teaching approaches, action research
related to instructional improvement, and inservice teaching turned out to be a cost effective way to
stimulate new ways of doing things. Promoting widespread adoption of these innovations -- quite successful
for some, not so for others -- was found to be a challenge in this era of growing institutional autonomy and
clearly requires fresh thinking about the role of institutional accreditation and other inter-institutional
development mechanisms.

2. Change model. Although the main development objective of the project was to enhance the teaching


                                                     - 16 -

learning processes in secondary schools through the improvement of teacher education, the project never
clearly demonstrated where teacher education fits within a larger model of change (improvement) in
teaching and learning. Future future projects would do well to describe such a model of change and
describe how the other crucial determinants are also supported.

3. Outcome orientation. A major design weakness in the project -- one to be avoided in any further
teacher training projects -- is its failure to effectively use outcome measures to document and assure project
impact. Ultimately, efforts to improve teacher education should be judged in terms of improved knowledge
and skills of training program graduates. Tracking these throughout a change program is means of quality
assurance. The current project, with its "entry level assessment" laid down an important baseline for
student change, but failed to use it effectively to demonstrate the impact of remediation and the overall
impact of the teacher training through exit level testing. For practicing teachers, the inservice training that
was offered, and the partnering with lecturers for action research and other professional growth
opportunities, were never assessed in terms of observed changes in teacher performance; similarly those
university lecturers who completed masters or doctors degrees were never called upon to demonstrate
objectively improvements in their own instruction. In the future, teacher training programs need to have
built-in mechanisms for tracking and assuring changes in valued outcomes.

4. Curricular revision of the kind envisioned in the Project -- geared to vertical, horizontal and external
flexibility allowing graduates to teach at both secondary levels (lower and upper), to teach comfortably in
more than one subject area, and to compete for jobs outside the field of education -- is a heavy and difficult
task, more like structural reform than curricular revision. The project's efforts created some useful
curricular materials but fell short of establishing such reforms, largely because they were focused too
narrowly. The creation of curricular flexibility requires a system-wide effort to reduce curricular densities
and rigidities -- a focus on learning scope and sequence not learning content. For instance, if the university
were to stop teaching high school content to compensate for low student entry-level knowledge and instead
were to institute mandatory remedial programs (tutoring) for underprepared students (see more below on
ELA and 3S), it could create more space in the curriculum for flexibility. Such reforms cannot be done in
isolation -- they need widespread support, even ownership, by major stakeholders to flourish. It would be
useful to see them as part of the recently initiated efforts to create a competency-based (or perhaps better
performance-based) curriculum.

5. The project's inservice teacher training was considered beneficial by both the tens of thousands of
teachers who received it and the LPTK lecturers who provided it. Motivation was high among teachers in
large part because it has helped them gain credits towards promotion. In fact, it is now clear that the most
important feature of the project was not the funding of the training -- many participants seem willing to pay
their own fees -- but the policy shift that allowed LPTKs to provide it. In exchange for this career boost for
teachers the State has the right to expect improved teaching quality (see points in item 2 above). In the past
the school system often regarded IKIP/FKIP training to be overly theoretical and largely irrelevant to the
teacher's daily tasks. Given the Project's attempts to forge closer ties between the universities and the
schools, has this changed? Have inservice graduates at the S1 level become more capable teachers? Some
survey research at one institution showed that trainees had attained acceptable levels of knowledge and
teaching skills, but there was no assessment of how much this was attributable to the course (no pre-post or
control group comparisons). This is something that could be measured under DIKTI's transition project,
perhaps using the observational instrument developed under the project (APKG). As implied in point 2
above, it would be important for any future inservice program to include among its performance indicators
changes in teaching skills and classroom performance related to course participation.

Another lesson learned was that Project inservice training was much more accessible to those in major


                                                        - 17 -

urban areas (those hosting the LPTKs) than to rural teachers. New attempts must be found to reach those
teachers largely (and unfairly) excluded from such training, especially if the country wants to keep teachers
in rural areas. It may be time to allow LPTKs to develop programs of distance education, or at least to
encourage different kinds of outreach, using remote study centers or holding special sessions during holiday
breaks. Participation by rural teachers (especially where the teacher is the only income earner in the
family) should be supported by scholarship funds. Scholarship support does not always have to come from
DIKTI. There are growing numbers of examples of District Offices (Dinas) seeking and paying for teacher
training. One promising idea connecting Dinas and the LPTK would be for certain field-oriented lectures
to become resource persons to the teacher study circles or clusters (MGMP) set up by Dinas.

6. The higher than expected interest in action research, both that done by teacher-lecturer teams at schools
and that done by lecturers in relation to their own teaching, reveals an emerging research culture in the
schools and universities. Yet the agenda is still evolving. Research projects are still largely atomized and
invisible. The few that have been published are published in academic journals of limited circulation. In
the future DIKTI may want to develop a more user friendly format for reporting research findings, such as
a digest or newsletter -- reporting not just individual findings but identifying trends and generalizable
findings that can be used by clusters of teachers (MGMP) or teacher educators. Another unfinished part of
the action research agenda is the action part. The two programs were established as a means of leveraging
more effective teaching and learning processes. Since this has remained unmeasured (see point 2 above), it
is not yet clear how successful this has been. During the transition project, DIKTI could set up means to
assess using instruction improvement (in the schools the APKG could be used). In the university,
instructional improvement by lecturers could be assessed through use of course evaluations done by
students (more about that in the following paragraph). As in point 4 above, future projects should be sure
to include such improvement among it performance indicators.

7. The project made a substantial contribution to improved qualifications of teacher educators through
the masters and doctoral programs (domestic and overseas) that it funded. Its approach to enrolling
lecturers in foreign universities (mostly European) using placement agents was both effective and
economical (especially when the host country paid for the language training) and allowed the Project to
exceed the target numbers (105 vs. 100) even under conditions of cost-cutting. However, the fields which
were emphasized in the advanced studies were almost entirely in the disciplines, mostly science and math.
As important as these are for the institutions, especially those expanding to the "wider mandate," the
intended build up of senior scholars in education/teaching fields was overshadowed. (Whereas the SAR
suggests an even balance between programs in the disciplines and those in pedagogy, the disciplines ended
up with about 92 percent of the scholars.) Universities and DIKTI will need to take a careful look at future
leadership potential in the teacher training field and put into place new incentives to build up the core of
senior scholars in this field if it appears underrepresented.

Concerning those who have returned from advanced studies, both domestic and international, there was no
attempt to measure whether they had improved their skills as teacher educators -- an issue parallel to that
for teachers graduating from S1 inservicing (see point 2 above). Universities have the right to expect
improved instruction from their upgraded lecturers. In many systems around the world this is accomplished
through standard course evaluations done by students. The question is: do those who have received
advanced graduate degrees teach any better than: a) they did before upgrading, and b) than those who have
not? Such questions could be assessed during the new phase of PGSM and covered in any future teacher
education projects.

8. Large scale efforts to modernize and equip science labs often show disappointing results. This Project
purchased much equipment that was not used or was poorly maintained. If the objective of providing


                                                      - 18 -

well-equipped science labs is the more effective training of teachers, then it should not be necessary to
obtain highly complex equipment, that difficult to operate and maintain. Instead there should be an
emphasis on the same kind of equipment that will be used in the secondary schools. Also, project
experience suggests that only those institutions which can demonstrate their capacity to use and maintain
equipment should be provided such equipment in the future.

9. The Project's new approach to entry-level assessment (ELA), especially when connected to remediation
through Student Support Services (3S), has proven to be a promising innovation but its potential has yet to
be fully realized. A common complaint about school teachers is that they do not know the subject matter
they are expected to teach. Project institutions developed the ELA in order to identify those prospective
teachers whose subject matter mastery is weak. They, like all other students, are then offered tutoring to
help them overcome deficiencies, but not all weak students take advantage of this. A more effective way to
deal with the inadequate academic background of teacher trainees would be to make such tutoring
mandatory -- a prerequisite to further study at the university. Such tutoring should be followed by
retesting to make sure mastery is attained. This cycle of testing, remediation, and retesting is what quality
assurance is all about. However, the ELA could also be used for quality control: given as a kind of
licensing exam at the end to assure that teachers being sent to schools know what they are to teach. Those
who fail at this point would not be licensed. The ELA used at the end like this -- as a post-test -- can also
be used as a kind of program evaluation: demonstrating to management the program's success in improving
mastery levels. This has been done to a limited extent in the Project and should be done more in the future
to promote institutional accountability. The serious use of the ELA in the above ways suggests that the
ELA itself should be of high quality. In the Project each institution was to develop its own version of the
ELA, after receiving training. Clearly some institutions were/will be capable of building better tests than
others. The serious use of the ELA suggests the need to make the best ones available to all institutions and
the need to keep improving their quality. It may even be advisable for DIKTI to require some level of
standardization.

10. The civil service status of teachers and university lecturers inhibits the effectiveness of quality
improvement initiatives. The civil service incentive system does little to reward effective teaching, instead it
encourages staff to join projects, do outside work (private school teaching and consulting), refrain from
being controversial, and otherwise accumulate functional credits. The culture that thus pervades the
university and the school is a bureaucratic not an academic one. Quality improvement in education requires
higher levels of accountability than are now found in the civil service: accountability for performance in
the classroom or lecture hall and for student outcomes, and real consequences if accountability standards
are not met. This requires the assessment of teaching behavior (e.g., by students, by peers, or by
supervisors), an awareness of student performance (e.g., proportion passing certain exams), and tenure and
promotion decisions based on the results. Whether this kind of accountability can be accomplished by civil
service reform or by taking teaching out of the civil service altogether is a question that needs to be
confronted.

11. The conversion of all 10 public IKIPs to universities during the course of the Project has improved the
status of teacher education in one sense, but potentially damaged it in others. University enrollment records
indicate that cohorts of students admitted since institutional conversion are better qualified academically
than before, in some cases putting them at par with neighboring well-established universities. Converted
institutions report an improvement in the academic atmosphere on campus and higher levels of student
expectations. However, it is not clear whether this conversion will improve the quality of teachers
produced, since the higher achieving students will probably not chose teaching careers. Experience in other
countries where this kind of conversion has taken place reveal the difficulty that the educational faculties
have competing with higher status faculties for funds and resources. Under PGSM itself, many fewer of


                                                     - 19 -

the doctoral candidates than expected undertook studies in educational fields. During the "transition PGSM
project" it will be important to study the extent to which the education track receives its fair share of
resources, including staff time, space and equipment, library books, journals and other educational
materials, fellowship opportunities, and annual budget allocations. It will also be important to track
academic ability of those who select the teaching option, and to conduct tracer studies of graduates.
Converted universities would be especially advised to develop strategic plans for maintaining the strength
and status of teacher education. To assure continued quality improvement, it would also be desirable for
all institutions to strengthen accountability at all levels (see point 6 on lecturers), including more rigorous
accreditation procedures, involving peer and external reviews in addition to self-evaluation.

12. The new PGSM Project which can be considered a transition to full institutionalization of Project
innovations can play a very positive role in further improving teacher education (see the many lessons
learned above), but can also undermine sustainability. It can undermine sustainability if it continues to
perpetuate a reliance on national funding for those activities which should be funded by the institutions out
of their own budgets. This will require very careful consideration of what activities merit additional
development funds and what should become routine. Care should be taken to avoid creating a sense of
entitlement to Project funding -- institutions will only implement them if they get external funds. On the
other hand, DIKTI should also avoid unfunded mandates, in which it requires the implementation of certain
programs but fails to assess and arrange for financing.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.

10. Additional Information




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
- Student scores on project-developed tests                               Positive changes in observed student
at teacher training institutions.                                         teaching skills in all (10) study programs at
                                                                          participating institutions (all but 2 statistically
                                                                          significant)

- Field experience program is running in all                              Yes, for all 30 institutions.
public teacher education institutions.

- Percentage of faculty of teacher education                              2001 figures: 51.5%; if faculty in pipeline
institutions with a post-bachelor's degree.                               counted: 63.2%.

- Number of graduates from public teacher                                 Government freeze on hiring new teachers in
education institutions employed.                                          place during most of the project


Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
                Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1. Improved LPTK pre-
service and in-service programs.

1.1. English, social sciences and subject                                 a. All of the three curricula have been
specific curriculum revised; pedagogy                                     designed and pre-tested in 8 LPTKs
courses developed; double major and                                       (English), 3 LPTKs (Social Sciences), and 3
major-minor programs offered.                                             LPTKs (Subject Specific Pedagogy).
                                                                          b. Flexibility programs, including double
                                                                          majors and major-minor, have been designed
                                                                          in English and Social Sciences curricula but
                                                                          they have not been implemented yet since
                                                                          these programs are meant to be offered in
                                                                          last semesters (after the students have
                                                                          completed all or most of their first major
                                                                          programs).


1.2. Science and math laboratories                                        a. Biology, Physics, Chemistry and
renovated and equipped; storage facilities                                Mathematics Laboratory equipment in
installed and used; science workshops for                                 accordance with the Basic Science Team
LPTK lecturers in operation.                                              Standard have been purchased and installed
                                                                          in 12 LPTKs (Jakarta, Bandung, Semarang,
                                                                          Yogyakarta, Surabaya, Malang, Singaraja,
                                                                          Makassar, Manado, Gorontalo, Padang and
                                                                          Medan). Science Laboratory in UNJ had
                                                                          been renovated and used for S1 students'
                                                                          practicum.
                                                                          b. Language lab equipment have been
                                                                          purchased and installed in UM, UNESA,
                                                                          UNNES, UNEJ, UNRAM, and IKIP
                                                                          Singaraja. Language lab. equipment as a
                                                                          supplement to the existing lab. have been
                                                                          provided to UNRI and UNP. All language lab.
                                                                          Equipment has been used to support the
                                                                          implementation of the Newly English
                                                                          Curriculum developed by the SSTD English
                                                                          Development Team.
                                                                          c. Science Laboratory Storage for the
                                                                          equipment has been installed and used
                                                                          (UNESA, UNIMED).


1.3. Learning materials selected, revised and                             a. Twelve (12) subject specific pedagogy
piloted, and further revised.                                             areas have been identified, basic course
                                                                          outline have been reviewed and developed for




                                                       - 21 -

                                                           each subject area,
                                                           b. 120 modules have been written, reviewed,
                                                           and revised and used for distance learning
                                                           program by the Open University.



1.4. Number of staff offices, conference                   a. Renovation/Remodeling of staff offices
rooms, student-faculty and inter-faculty                   and conference rooms have been built in 12
interactions, and number of faculty attending              LPTKs
meetings and seminars increased.                           b. Student-faculty consultation meetings
                                                           increased in some LPTKs. Faculty-faculty
                                                           interaction also increased accordingly.
                                                           c. Number of seminars were conducted and
                                                           attended by faculty members and experts
                                                           from local and international Universities.


1.5. Secondary text books purchased and                    a. Lower and Upper Secondary School
education references materials developed,                  Textbooks purchased and distributed to all
and distributed to LPTKs.                                  public LPTKs. The books have been used by
                                                           students who are preparing for teaching
                                                           practice in secondary schools and lecturers.
                                                           The books are also used by secondary
                                                           school teachers to develop their own
                                                           teachings.
                                                           b. Biology, Chemistry and Physics
                                                           Textbooks have been translated from English
                                                           to Indonesian published and distributed to all
                                                           LPTKs except UNPATTI due to civil
                                                           disturbances in the province of Maluku.
                                                           c. Eight of twenty-two textbooks produced by
                                                           refresher program participants have been
                                                           published, purchased and distributed to all
                                                           public LPTKs.
                                                           d. English Student Workbooks, Teacher
                                                           Guide-Book and Audio Cassette were
                                                           developed and distributed to 8 LPTKs.


1.6. Student Support Service centers                       a. Student Support Centers were established
established and operating, based on students               at 30 LPTKs.
entry level assessment scores.                             b. National Seminar was held in Yogyakarta
                                                           in April 2001 for 3S program, reporting
                                                           results of study in 14 LPTKs of effectiveness
                                                           of 3S.
                                                           c. Students having low Entry Level Scores
                                                           (Mahasiswa ELA Rendah =MER) have been
                                                           identified in 7 LPTKs.
                                                           d. Instruments for detecting learning
                                                           problems have been developed and
                                                           administered in 30 LPTKs.


1.7. Number of scholarships awarded.                       a. 18,725 scholarships for upgrading
                                                           qualifications of secondary teachers from D3
                                                           to S1 were awarded, exceeding project
                                                           target. Upgrading of 600 teachers through
                                                           the Open University was cancelled due to
                                                           cost containment.
                                                           b. Studies on second and last semester of
                                                           final cohort were completed in September
                                                           2000. Performance evaluation of 15 LPTKs
                                                           was presented in national seminar in March
                                                           and December 2000
                                                           c. A study comparing teachers with regular
                                                           S1s and those receiving S1 upgrading
                                                           through the project was conducted and
                                                           results results presented in a National
                                                           Seminar.




                                                 - 22 -

Component 2. LPTK partnerships with
secondary schools established.

2.1. Activities between LPTK and schools,                a. 912 lecturers from 11 LPTK have been
numbers of teachers joining on-campus                    actively working in secondary schools
programs, numbers of lecturers working in                contributing to teaching, action research,
schools, numbers of LPTK graduates being                 student counseling, learning material
hired in schools, and numbers of joint                   improvement, and community services.
research between LPTK and schools.                       b. Field Experience Program (PPL):
                                                           -180 partner schools were appointed,
                                                         handbook, and manual for PPL were
                                                         developed.
                                                           -Cooperating teachers and supervising
                                                         lecturers were trained.
                                                           -Tryout of new PPL models were
                                                         conducted by LPTKs and partner schools in
                                                         all provinces.
                                                         c. Classroom-Action Research:
                                                           -5 Batches of CAR were implemented.
                                                           -559 proposals were selected and
                                                         implemented.
                                                           -National Seminars were held and findings
                                                         were reported.
                                                           -National evaluation of CAR was conducted
                                                         and results were presented in national
                                                         seminar in December 2001.
                                                         d. Two FKIPs initiated pilot deployment using
                                                         own funds (Tadulako in Sulawesi,
                                                         Mulawarman in Kalimantan):
                                                           -25 action-based research were conducted
                                                         by participating deployment staff.


2.2. International visits conducted, and                 a. International visits were conducted during
lessons applied to strengthening                         the first two years (before this program was
LPTK-school linkages.                                    cut) followed by in-country workshops to
                                                         disseminate and plan further activities in
                                                         building LPTK-School linkages in Indonesia.
                                                         b. Some LPTKs (UPI, UM, UNESA, IKIP
                                                         Singaraja, UNM) continued conducting
                                                         significant activities with their respective
                                                         international partners (e.g., OSU & La Trobe)
                                                         after program funding was cut.
Component 3. Improved quality of LPTK
teaching staff.

3.1. Number of domestic and international                1301 and 57 teacher educators were
fellowships for Masters program granted.                 awarded domestic S2 program fellowships
                                                         and international Masters program
                                                         fellowships respectively.
3.2. Number of domestic and international                16 teacher educators with S2 qualification
fellowships for doctorate program granted.               were awarded Domestic Doctoral program
                                                         fellowships and 105 awarded international
                                                         Doctoral program fellowships.
3.3. Number of international refresher                   22 teacher educators from selected LPTKs
courses accomplished.                                    attended the non-degree professional
                                                         development through refresher program.
3.4. Number of course-related materials                  22 course-related materials were produced
produced by returnees of refresher courses.              by the returnees of refresher program, but
                                                         only 8 materials were revised, published and
                                                         distributed to all public LPTKs.


3.5. Number of regional workshops                        No information.
conducted and subject specific pedagogy
courses taught in the workshops .




                                               - 23 -

Component 4. Building Education Research
Capacity.
                                                            a. Diagnostic entry level assessment
4.1 Assessment instruments developed and                    instruments (ELA) were developed in 10
administered, results analyzed and                          LPTKs.
presented to the 3S, and teaching adjusted                  b. ELA results were analyzed and scores
accordingly.                                                has been presented to the Student Support
                                                            Services (3S) Centers.
                                                            c. Exit-level content knowledge of LPTK
                                                            students was assessed using the ELA.
                                                            d. Quality Assurance using ELA was
                                                            conducted in 4 LPTKs (UM, UNM, UNESA
                                                            and UNP); using the ELA and measures of
                                                            teaching performance was conducted in 2
                                                            LPTKs (UNESA and UNP).
                                                            e. The results of such assessments were
                                                            reported to the Directorate General of Higher
                                                            Education, MONE and to program
                                                            coordinators and lecturers from 18 and 2
                                                            STKIPs.
                                                            f. Training in use of ELA and Quality
                                                            Assurance (ELAQA) 4 academic fields was
                                                            conducted for 30 LPTKs.


4.2. Number of student teachers assessed                     Quality Assurance using and measures of
after PPL and each LPTK student assessed                    teaching performance was conducted in 2
at graduation.                                              LPTKs (UNESA and UNP).


4.3. Number of grants awarded for                           229 research proposals on RII were accepted
proposals, RII designed and implemented,                    for funding, National seminars on findings
results used and published.                                 were held in 1999, 2000 and 2001.

Component 5. Preparing for a Wider
Mandate.
                                                            a. Guidelines, letter of intents, proposals,
5.1. Guidelines for wider mandate drafted,                  visitations, and program planning were set up
letter of intent and proposals submitted,                   and completed, not only for wider mandate
visitation and LPTK selection made, and                     but for converting LPTKs to universities.
program planning processed.                                 b. At the moment, ten public IKIPs have now
                                                            become universities and two public STKIPs
                                                            have now become IKIPs.


5.2. Meetings with BAN conducted,                           a. Meetings with BAN were organized, guide
standards for LPTKs adjusted,                               book for self evaluation was completed, and
self-evaluation and peer validation                         its dissemination to all LPTKs was
implemented, evaluation report writers and                  conducted.
peer validators trained, and seminars for                   b. The DGHE stressed the importance of
system improvement conducted.                               conducting self evaluation and demanded the
                                                            self evaluation reports be attached in LPTK
                                                            annual budget proposals.

5.3. Career information office available, data              a. Career information services were set up in
base of career information developed and                    UPBK (Guidance and Counseling Imple.
shared, and number of students selecting                    menting Unit).
double major and major-minor.                               b. List of information have been developed
                                                            regarding types of competencies,
                                                            occupations, vacancies, and training in
                                                            non-education areas relevant to LPTK
                                                            students.
                                                            c. Data regarding number of students
                                                            selecting double majors/major-minor
                                                            programs have not been available yet

1End of project




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate            Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
1. Improving Preservice & Inservice Teacher Education          30.60
2. Strengthening Linkages to Secondary Schools                   5.40
3. Raising the Qualifications of Teacher Educators             32.40
4. Building Educational Research Capacity                        2.90
5. Preparing for a Wider Mandate                                 1.10
6. Project Implementation                                        4.20

Total Baseline Cost                                            76.60               0.00
 Physical Contingencies                                          2.40
 Price Contingencies                                             8.10
                         Total Project Costs                   87.10               0.00
                  Total Financing Required                     87.10               0.00
The Government was asked to supply information on actual project costs by component but did not
respond. Bank systems only track expenditure by disbursement category. Hence, portions of this annex
could not be completed.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB
                                                    NCB                   2                       Total Cost
                                                                   Other           N.B.F.

1. Works                            0.00            2.80             1.20           0.00            4.00
                                    (0.00)         (1.40)           (0.60)         (0.00)          (2.00)
2. Goods                             2.80           7.60             4.60           0.00           15.00
                                    (2.10)         (5.30)           (3.20)         (0.00)          (10.60)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00             1.60           0.00            1.60
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)           (1.10)         (0.00)          (1.10)
4. Learning/Teaching                 0.00           1.20             0.80           0.00            2.00
Materials                           (0.00)         (0.90)           (0.50)         (0.00)          (1.40)
5. Fellowships                                                       34.7                           34.7
                                                                    (27.3)                         (27.3)
6. Grants                                                            5.9                            5.9
                                                                     (4.1)                          (4.1)
7. Scholarships                                                      10.0                           10.0
                                                                     (7.0)                          (7.0)
8. Local Training                    0.00           0.00             9.4            0.00            9.4
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)            (4.7)         (0.00)           (4.7)
9. Project Operating Costs           0.00           0.00             4.5            0.00            4.5
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)            (2.2)         (0.00)           (2.2)
   Total                             2.80           11.60            72.7           0.00            87.1
                                    (2.10)         (7.60)           (50.7)         (0.00)           (60.4)




                                                - 25 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                        Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category              ICB
                                                            NCB                   2                      Total Cost
                                                                           Other           N.B.F.

    1. Works                              0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00        0.00
                                         (0.00)             (1.06)         (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.06)
   2. Goods                               0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00
                                         (0.00)             (7.56)         (0.00)           (0.00)      (7.56)
   3. Services                            0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.49)           (0.00)      (0.49)
   5. Fellowships                                                           0.00                         0.00
                                                                           (11.77)                      (11.77
   6. Grants                                                                0.00                         0.00
                                                                           (2.69)                       (2.69)
   7. Scholarships                                                          0.00                         0.00
                                                                           (2.41)                       (2.41)
   8. Local Training                      0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)         (1.11)           (0.00)      (1.11)
   9. Project Operating Costs             0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00
                                         (0.00)             (0.00)         (1.35)           (0.00)      (1.35)
      Total                               0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00         0.00
                                         (0.00)            (8.62)          (19.82)          (0.00)      (28.44)

   The project implementation office was not able to provide the overall project costs by expenditure
   categories therefore, the above table only reflects loan expenditures. The loan expenditures were calculated
   based on data available as of June 23, 2003 in the Integrated Controller's System. After project
   restructuring and funds cancellation in 1998 the total loan amount was reduced to $30.4 million. As of June
   23, 2003 an additional US$1,959,571.81 will be cancelled leaving a total loan amount of US$28,440,372.

Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
 Expenditure Category             Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank       Govt.        CoF.        Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank    Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works                   2.00        2.00                    1.05                           52.5     0.0
Equip/Furn/Materials          12.00       5.50                    7.56                           63.0     0.0
Consultant Services           1.10        0.50                    0.49                           44.5     0.0
Fellowships
  Domestic                    7.40        7.40                    2.92                           39.5     0.0
  International               19.90       0.00                    8.82                           44.3     0.0
Scholarships                  7.00        3.00                    2.41                           34.4     0.0
Grants                        4.10        1.80                    2.69                           65.6     0.0
Local Training                4.70        4.70                    1.11                           23.6     0.0
Project Operating Costs       2.20        2.30                    1.35                           61.4     0.0

   The Staff Appraisal Report only provides project financing data by expenditure category. The data used in
   calculating the Bank's portion of actual expenditures comes from the Integrated Controller's System - June
   23, 2003. The project implementation office was not able to provide the actual figures for the GOI
   contribution.




                                                        - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/1994                   4    Education Specialist (Mission
                                             Leader); Teacher Education
                                             Specialist (Consultant); Science
                                             Education Specialist
                                             (Consultant); General Educator
                                             (Consultant).
              11/1994                   4    Education Specialist (Mission
                                             Leader); Teacher Education
                                             Specialist (Consultant);
                                             Operations Officer; Technical
                                             Support.
              02/1995                   1    Economist (Task Manager)
              09/1995                   4    Economist (Mission Leader);
                                             Senior Education Specialist;
                                             Education Specialist.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1995                   7    Economist (Mission Leader);
                                             Education Specialist;
                                             Research Assistant; 3
                                             Educators Consultants;
                                             Operations Assistant.
              09/1995                   4    Economist (Mission Leader);
                                             Senior Education Specialist;
                                             Operations Analyst; Education
                                             Specialist (Consultant).
              07/1996                   3    Education Specialist (Mission
                                             Leader); Teacher Education
                                             Specialist (Consultant);
                                             Education Specialist (World
                                             Bank Resident Mission).

 Supervision
              03/1997                   3    Senior Education Specialist           S               S
                                             (Mission Leader); Teacher
                                             Education Specialist
                                             (Consultant); Education
                                             Specialist.
              09/1997                   3    Senior Education Specialist           S               S
                                             (Mission Leader); Teacher
                                             Education Specialist
                                             (Consultant); Education
                                             Specialist.
              09/1998                   3    Senior Education Specialist           S               S
                                             (Mission Leader); Teacher
                                             Education Specialist



                                              - 28 -

                                           (Consultant); Economist.
               03/1999                 3   Economist (Mission Leader);         S    S
                                           Teacher Education Specialist
                                           (Consultant); Education
                                           Specialist.
               08/1999                 3   Education Specialist (Mission
                                           Leader); Teacher Education
                                           Specialist (Consultant);
                                           Education Specialist.
               05/2000                 2   Economist (Mission Leader);
                                           Senior Education Specialist.
               05/2001                 2   Education Specialist (Mission       S    S
                                           Leader); Teacher Education
                                           Specialist (Consultant).

 ICR
               03/2002                5     Senior Education Specialist        S    S
                                            (Mission Leader); Teacher
                                            Education Specialist
                                            (Consultant); Education
                                            Specialist; Procurement
                                            Consultant; Financial
                                            Management Advisor.




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        343,353
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                       336,568
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Increasing social status of teacher education




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Information Report (PIR)
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
Loan Agreement
Memorandum of the President
Minutes of Negotiations
Mission Aide-memoires
Back-to-Office Reports
Project Status Reports (PSRs)
Project Correspondences




                                      - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Programs That Went Well

Almost all programs of the SSTD have achieved satisfactorily most of the key targets and have affected
institutional changes within the context of improving internal efficiency, productivity of staff, school
teachers, LPTK's students, and providing linkages between LPTK and secondary schools. Each program
and activity, that went well, will be discussed separately in terms of its original component as follows.

Component 1: Quality Improvement subsumed several programs, namely: curricula development,
educational facilities (office spaces, learning materials, references, science and language labs, student
support services and career planning development and inservice training.

A new English Curriculum with its intensive course materials and strategy was established satisfactorily.
The teaching materials for students and teachers were produced, distributed, and tried out in 8 LPTKs.
This program went very well due to the fact that the program was relatively well managed by highly
qualified and fully committed personnel, especially of the Intensive Course Team members. The Social
Studies and the Subject Matters Specific Pedagogy Curricula are also completed in due time. Each of the
curriculum retains its own characteristics.

Concerning horizontal flexibility, both English and Social Sciences curricula had designed portions of
courses and their credit allocations for students from other departments who want to take English and
Social Sciences as their minor programs. These plans have not reached their implementation yet since:
    (a) the new curricula were meant for students entering the LPTKs at the time the new curricula
    were introduced;
    (b) the departments (jurusan) tend to allow their students to take minor programs during their last
    semesters, when students have or almost have completed their own major programs. It is realized,
    however, that the work of curricular flexibility is concerned with the entire system of educational
    institution rather than with particular curriculum areas, such as English, Social Sciences, or Subject
    Specific Pedagogy. In conjunction with the expectation specified in SAR, both English and Social
    Sciences curricula could only design courses for minor programs as providers.

The vertical flexibility has been developed and implemented through PGSM curriculum development, by
means of:
    (a) Providing courses in English and Social Sciences which would also prepare LPTK students to teach
    in junior secondary schools. The introduction of common courses in IPS, for example, was meant to
    provide both horizontal and vertical flexibility since in junior secondary schools students do not learn
    history, geography or economy but social studies.
    (b) Expanding teaching methodology contents covered in Subject Specific Pedagogy courses to
    accommodate the instructional needs for both senior and junior secondary schools.
    (c) Requiring all LPTK students to teach in both senior and junior secondary schools during their field
    experience programs (PPL).

Aspects of 3S, which were believed to have been successfully implemented, are the development of AUM
(student's learning problems probing instruments), training of tutors, implementation of peer tutoring, and
the establishment of linkages to Guidance and Counseling Implementation Units. Prior to the actual
implementation, the implementers were trained in using the instruments and giving advisement of students
who faced learning problems. Career Planning Development was also successful in terms of its success in



                                                     - 33 -

informing educational and non-educational job opportunities, and training for career information tutors .

In-service teacher education was conducted well, even it exceeding the project target. Many of school
teachers, especially in those remote areas have not had the chance to join the in-campus in-service
education. This is due to the design of the project which did not provide transportation and living
allowances to teachers. However, after the project completion they began entering the program on their own
expenses. Studies on second and last semesters of the final cohort were completed in due time. A
comparative study between regular S1 graduates and inservice S1 graduates was also conducted. Learning
materials in the form of modules (120) were developed, reviewed, revised, and re-written, for use by Open
University students.

Purchased science equipment and language laboratories have been used by S1 students (both regular and
in-service teacher programs) and by LPTK's staff who joined the Academic Staff Deployment program. At
least 4 LPTKs have developed lab practicum manuals through the financial assistance from JICA.
Renovated and remodeled staff offices, conference rooms and storage rooms for equipment have been used
for preparing courses and student consultation.

Component 2: School Linkages subsumed several programs, namely: field experience program, academic
staff deployment, and classroom action-based research. Parts of the field experience programs that
particularly went well were: criteria for teacher and faculty supervisors, guide books to field experience, the
student teachers performance instruments, and training for teacher and staff supervisors. Such successes
were due to the implementation of the synergised bottom-up and top-down work strategy.

Action-based researches were successfully implemented in a collaborative way and results were used to
improve teaching-learning processes in secondary schools. The action-based research was well planned and
managed. The program was designed initially with training, development of terms of reference, nomination
of research proposals, selection, implementation, and ending with evaluation.

For most of the LPTKs, international partnership have been quite successful, some continued their
partneship after program termination.

The ideas of Academic Staff Deployment was initially resisted, but was finally well accepted and
implemented by nine LPTKs. Various activities were held in schools through a collaboration between
school teachers and LPTK's educators. The benefit gained by the deployed staff is deepened understanding
about the schools. The benefits gained by the teachers are: (1) improved teaching methods, and (2)
improved learning materials. The students also benefitted in that they were able to do lab experiments using
equipment from LPTK.

Component 3: Staff Development subsumed several programs, namely: masters and doctoral programs
and refresher program. Masters and doctoral programs were both successful not only in terms of optimum
achievement (number of graduates) but also in terms of qualitative achievement, such as improved
accreditation for the institution, improved ability in conducting research, and improved recency of learning
materials. Based on data gathered through questionnaires, graduates returned to their original institution
and were assigned to teach S1 or S2 students in accordance with their academic background. The
international refresher program was undertaken successfully, but due to budget cut only one batch was
implemented.

Component 4: Education Research subsumed three programs, namely research for the improvement of
instruction, entry-level assessment, and quality assurance. Parts of ELA that went well are the construction,


                                                      - 34 -

administration, analysis of tests or instruments, the use of ELA results by tutors and dissemination of ELA
items to LPTKs. Parts of quality assurance (QA) that are mostly successful are the construction,
administration, and dissemination of test items. Quite a number of research were conducted by skilled
lecturers and the results of which were used for the betterment of teaching-learning processes at LPTKs.
Systematic mechanism was applied to assure the selection of good research. Moreover, it was followed
with intensive monitoring and evaluation of reports. The best research results were presented in the national
seminar and published in education research journals.

Component 5: Wider Mandate subsumed two major programs, namely: wider mandate and accreditation.
Ten LPTKs were finally converted to universities, while two STKIPs were converted into IKIPs. The
converted IKIPs were given permission to widen their primary mandates to run the non-education programs
without neglecting their primary mandate (teacher education) The conversion yielded positive effect on the
quality of applicants. The accreditation program was conducted through self evaluation only. DGHE
requires LPTKs to conduct self evaluation and assists them financially by including funding for such in the
LPTK's annual budget.

Programs That Didn't Go Well

Component 1: Quality Improvement . Parts of curricula development that is felt lacking are its
dissemination and legalization from DGHE in order to secure implementation in all LPTKs due to the new
ministerial policy on university autonomy in curriculum development. An aspect of science equipment
provision still considered problematic is maintenance. This is due to budget cut and non-availability of
qualified personnel. Every room of the renovated staff offices has been shared by 2 to 4 staff members,
and this has negatively affected the effectiveness of the consultation activities (though it may have a
positive affect in terms of efficiency).

Component 2: School Linkages. In the first two years of Project's implementation, International
Partnerships program was implemented successfully, however, there were certain LPTKs and their
international partners which were not able to carry out the programs successfully due to lack of
communication and mismatches in the programs. This program was terminated due to drastic budget cut.

Component 3: Staff Development. Refresher Program was only successful in sending 22 teacher
educators out of 150 targeted by the Project to do the non-degree professional development in international
universities. Only 8 out of 22 manuscripts produced by the returnees have been printed and distributed to
all LPTKs. Some of the drafted manuscripts produced by the returnees were not approved by the expert
reviewers. There was no agreement by both parties on which parts needed revision.

Component 4: Education Research. The Entry Level Assessment results were not used widely in quality
assurance due to time limit. ELA was conducted and the results were used for tutoring students in the
third year of the Project's implementation. Therefore QA can only be administered in semester VI rather
than at the end of semester VIII. Data on entry and exit levels has not been obtained as a form of quality
assurance.

Component 5: Wider Mandate. This program that went far beyond its expectation is the conversion of
IKIPs into universities and STKIPs into IKIPs. Although there is an increase in the quality of applicants
but the conversion also recognized that the institutions' teacher education mission is under threat in certain
ways.




                                                     - 35 -

Sustainability

Almost all programs of the SSTD have achieved satisfactorily most of the key targets and have affected
institutional changes, particularly the internal efficiency, productivity of staff, school teachers, and
LPTK's students. It also created amicable linkages between LPTK and secondary schools. Therefore, most
of the Project's actual outputs and outcomes are envisioned as most likely sustainable. There are two main
reasons why the ex STTD's programs would be sustained in the future. Firstly, the Project has designed a
gradual decrease in terms of funding of all programs and activities. This scheme pushes the LPTKs to
allocate budgets for sustaining previously conducted programs and activities. Secondly, the establishment
of a new directorate within DGHE, that is, the Directorate for Supervision of Educational Staff
Development and Personnel of Higher Education (Direktorat Pembinaan Pendidikan Tenaga Kependidikan
dan Ketenagaan Pendidikan Tinggi) assures the sustainability of the truly beneficial programs. This new
directorate is committed to sustaining some of the SSTD's programs and activities.

In light of DGHE policy, efforts have been made for ensuring sustainability of most programs through the
combining of bottom-up and top-down implementation of those programs and activities. In each institution,
two junior and highly active staffs were appointed by DGHE to help plan future programs and activities.
Since the beginning of the SSTD, some programs are integrated in each institution's Strategic Planning (
Renstra). By such a policy, the programs and activities are to be sustained in the future. Some programs
were jointly planned between LPTK and the Regional and Provincial Office of National Education (Dinas
Diknas), such as action-based research and field experience program (PPL).

Fundamentally, almost all programs included in the five components are already being sustained. The
sustainability of all programs was made possible through their insertion into the existing and relevant
offices or boards (LEMLIT, UPBK, BKSK, etc) within its own institution. The new management strategy
that will be implemented in the future is to combine the top-down and bottom-up approach in order to
secure sense of belonging and responsibility by the respective LPTK and schools. The funding which was
originally derived from the SSTD has been replaced by the institution's routine, recurrent, and annual
budgets (for examples: DIKs, DIP, BP3, DUE-Like, BPPS, etc.). Funding has also been obtained from
local governments.

There are some programs that will definitely be continued and sustained. The programs expected to be
sustained are: the action-based research, academic staff field assignment, in-service education for
secondary school teachers, entry level and exit level assessment, student support services, quality
assurance, self evaluation program, field experience for student teachers, curriculum dissemination,
research for the improvement of instruction, books and references, and learning materials production.

Lessons Learned

Positive Lessons Learned. Evaluation reports of both partnerships and classroom action research (2001)
indicated the importance of combining bottom-up & top-down approaches in enhancing program
dissemination. Reports of RII (2000) and classroom action research (2001) noted that competitive
strategies had increased quality as well as institutional participation in respective programs. Report of the
English language curriculum tryout (2000) noted the effect of the intensive course approach (IC) in
improving student learning within the first semester in LPTKs. Annual Project Reports also suggested that
early attention on program sustainability makes LPTKs more aware of this issue resulting in concrete
efforts to integrate the programs into the existing organizational units. Increased number of teaching
facilities have improved the teaching-learning processes at LPTKs, which in turn will affect the quality of
graduates. Sufficient offices for staff have improved interactions between student- staff, and staff-staff. In


                                                       - 36 -

order to publish learning materials, it is certainly necessary to establish a link between LPTKs and local
and national publishers.


Negative Lessons Learned. Reports of the 3-S (2000) noted the lack of coordination among ELAQA, 3S
and the implementing study programs in certain LPTKs, minimizing potential effect of the program.
Report of the CPD program also suggested the need of building better coordination between CPD and
faculties and study programs in each LPTK. Report of the science equipment monitoring in several LPTKs
(2000) noted the lack of training in the use of new equipment for teaching purposes, minimizing the benefit
of that investment. Other reports -- PPL survey, 2001 and annual PGSM coordination meeting ­ point to
the following lessons: (1) the problem of imposing one national model of PPL for all LPTKs with varied
conditions, and (2) the potential risk of rapidly converting IKIPs to universities from the viewpoint of
teacher education development. There was not enough thought given to the staff development planning in
accordance with the needs in the LPTKs.

Some of the above lessons have been considered relevant and applicable for similar projects i.e. (1)
combining bottom-up and top-down approaches in introducing new ideas; (2) the role of competitive
strategies in increasing both quality and program participation including research capacity; (3) the need for
giving early attention on the sustainability of the programs; (4) the problem of imposing one national model
for all institutions with varied background and conditions; and (5) the importance of training in use of new
equipment for teaching purposes.


Bank's Performance

The Bank had provided regular and effective supervision through the establishment a consistent mechanism
and process in loan agreement. The Bank had also satisfactorily provided the CPIU with adequate
assistance prior, during and after the project's implementation. The rating standards and procedures were
well established and effective throughout the span of the Project. However, there was minor administrative
shortcoming as the Bank did not provide feedback of the matters requested or shared with the Bank. The
Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.




                                                      - 37 -

- 38 -

