Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3979 IND
                               Loan Agreement
                (Secondary School Teacher Development Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated March 29, 1996
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3979 IND
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  March 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
Page  2
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
            III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
      (b)   "Grants" mean grants made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower, in part out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a
Grantee for research activities under Parts B.2 and D.3 of the
Project, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement;
      (c)   "Grantee" means a teacher or a group of teachers from
secondary schools or a faculty member or a group of faculty
members from LPTKs, and LPTKs, to whom or to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a Grant;
      (d)   "IKIP" means Institut Keguruan dan Ilmu Pendidikan,
a public institute of teacher training and educational sciences
of the Borrower;
      (e)   "LPTK" means Lembaga Pendidikan Tenaga Kependidikan,
a public teacher training institution of the Borrower;
      (f)   "Research Management Team" means the team established
under the University Research Council in the Directorate
General of Higher Education in the Borrower's Ministry of
Education and Culture, to carry out the selection process and
administer the Grants;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "STKIP" means Sekolah Tinggi Keguruan dan Ilmu
Pendidikan, a public institute of teacher training of the
Borrower; and
      (i)   "UT" means Universitas Terbuka, the Borrower's Open
University.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty million four hundred
thousand dollars ($60,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
Page  3
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (i) for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
(other than Parts B.2 and D.3 thereof) described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be paid) by the Borrower on account of Grants made under Parts
B.2 and D.3 of the Project and in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 2001,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
Page  4
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."
            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."
            "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through the Directorate General of Higher Education in the
Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, educational and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the activities under the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
Page  5
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                   cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
Page  6
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P. O. Box 1139
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA
                   Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (MCI)
                   Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Nicholas Hope
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 1,800,000        50%
(2) Equipment, furniture,      10,800,000        100% of foreign
Page  7
    learning and teaching                        expenditures,
    materials, and                               100% of local
    consumable materials                         expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 65%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3) Fellowships:
    (a)  International         17,800,000        100%
    (b)  Domestic               6,700,000        50%
(4) Grants                      3,800,000        70% of Grant
                                                 amount
(5) Local training              4,300,000        50%
(6) Scholarships                6,300,000        70%
(7) Operating                   2,000,000        50%
    expenditures
(8) Consultants'                  900,000        70%
    services and
    studies
(9) Unallocated                 6,000,000
                               __________
         TOTAL                 60,400,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Operating expenditures" means expenditures
on account of the Project by the central and local Project
Implementation Units for staff honoraria, travel expenses,
office consumables, and miscellaneous administrative support.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) civil works under contracts costing less
than $500,000 equivalent, except for the first contract for
civil works costing the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii)
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent,
except for the first contract for goods costing $50,000
equivalent or more; (iii) fellowships, Grants, local training,
scholarships, and operating expenditures; and (iv) contracts
for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than
$100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to enhance teaching and
learning processes in secondary schools through the improvement
of teacher education in the Borrower's teacher training
institutions.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Improving Pre-Service and In-Service Teacher Education
1.    Improvement of the curriculum for the undergraduate
degree program for pre-service and in-service teacher
education in English and social sciences by developing
curricula providing for one or more of the following: (a)
flexibility for teaching in both junior and senior secondary
schools, (b) flexibility in teaching more than one subject, and
(c) courses that improve the students' possibilities to compete
for employment outside the education sector.
2.    Strengthening biology, chemistry, physics and mathematics
pre-service and in-service teacher education through the
provision of science equipment and related storage facilities
to ten IKIPs and two STKIPs, and the carrying out of workshops
in the use and maintenance of science equipment for LPTK staff.
3.    Improvement of the access of faculty and students of LPTKs
to textbooks and other curriculum materials currently used in
schools, through provision of senior and junior secondary
textbook series, and education reference books to all public
LPTKs.
4.    Promotion of active learning techniques to improve
teacher education,  through writing and production of teaching
books, and translation of foreign publications relating to
subject content and teaching methods.
5.    Establishment of a student support center at each LPTK to
provide tutorial services and assistance in study skills to
entering students to improve the success rate in beginning-
level courses.
6.    Improvement of the qualification of secondary school
teacher through provision of about 18,000 tuition scholarships
to teachers with a three-year post-secondary diploma to study
for an undergraduate degree.
7.    Improvement of the teacher undergraduate degree program,
through the updating of the UT learning materials, both for the
face-to-face and the distance education upgrading programs.
8.    Renovation and upgrading of office space for about 3,600
faculty members and of conference rooms at IKIPs and STKIPs.
Part B: Strengthening the Linkages of LPTKs to Secondary Schools
      Strengthening the linkages of LPTKs to secondary schools
through:
1.    Preparation of a handbook for the implementation of a
student teaching practicum at LPTKs.
2.    Provision of Grants to:
      (a)   teams of faculty members of LPTKs and teachers of
secondary schools for the financing of research activities,
including small equipment and consumables, for the improvement
of student teaching and field experiences for teacher trainees;
and
Page  9
      (b)   LPTKs for the formation and implementation of
partnerships with foreign institutions.
Part C: Raising the Qualifications of Teacher Educators
      Raising the qualifications of teacher educators through:
1.    Provision of about 1,600 fellowships at the master's level
and about 150 fellowships at the doctorate level for teaching
staff of LPTKs.
2.    Provision of short-term international fellowships for
about 150 LPTK faculty members holding a graduate degree.
3.    Carrying out of about eight regional workshops for
lecturers in content-specific pedagogy for each major teaching
subject.
Part D: Building Educational Research Capacity
      Building educational research capacity through:
1.    Development and implementation of a procedure for
assessing entry-level mastery of core subjects of new LPTK
undergraduate degree students.
2.    Development of an assessment procedure for teaching skills
of student teachers.
3.    Provision of Grants to individual and teams of faculty
members of LPTKs for the carrying out of research, including
small equipment and consumables, related to the improvement of
instruction at LPTKs.
Part E: Preparing LPTKs for a Wider Mandate
1.    Preparation for the development of full-fledged subject-
content departments and degrees at selected IKIPs to allow
graduates to prepare for non-teaching jobs in selected areas.
2.    Improvement of the Borrower's models for institutional
self-study and peer validation for use as a model for
continuous self-evaluation and improvement for LPTKs, including
support for the accreditation process.
3.    Development of effective career information systems at the
IKIPs and STKIPs, including teaching and non-teaching careers.
                         *            *            *
         The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 2001                                    1,165,000
May 1, 2002                                         1,205,000
November 1, 2002                                    1,245,000
May 1, 2003                                         1,290,000
November 1, 2003                                    1,335,000
May 1, 2004                                         1,385,000
November 1, 2004                                    1,435,000
May 1, 2005                                         1,485,000
November 1, 2005                                    1,535,000
May 1, 2006                                         1,590,000
November 1, 2006                                    1,645,000
May 1, 2007                                         1,705,000
Page  10
November 1, 2007                                    1,765,000
May 1, 2008                                         1,825,000
November 1, 2008                                    1,890,000
May 1, 2009                                         1,960,000
November 1, 2009                                    2,030,000
May 1, 2010                                         2,100,000
November 1, 2010                                    2,175,000
May 1, 2011                                         2,250,000
November 1, 2011                                    2,330,000
May 1, 2012                                         2,415,000
November 1, 2012                                    2,500,000
May 1, 2013                                         2,585,000
November 1, 2013                                    2,680,000
May 1, 2014                                         2,775,000
November 1, 2014                                    2,870,000
May 1, 2015                                         2,970,000
November 1, 2015                                    3,075,000
May 1, 2016                                         3,185,000
__________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage per
                                           annum) applicable to the
                                           Loan on the day of
                                           prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                     1.00
      maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
Page  11
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent
or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$7,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
      (b)   Except as provided in Part C.4 of this Section, civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Equipment, furniture and consumable materials estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and equipment of
a specialized nature, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$4,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping and Direct Contracting
       Printed books and teaching materials up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines, or, if they must be procured from a particular
supplier, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
4.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent,
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date,
a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
Page  12
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
first contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, and the first contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
1.    In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
Page  13
      (a)   not later than July 1, 1996, establish curriculum
teams for English, social sciences, and subject-specific
pedagogy; each such team to be established in an IKIP selected
on the basis of its strong English, social sciences or subject-
specific pedagogy program, respectively; and
      (b)   thereafter maintain such teams until the completion
of the Project.
2.    In carrying out Part A. 6 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   not later than March 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for comments, an action plan for the deployment of
about 2,400 excess LPTK faculty members to secondary schools
and to UT, such plan to include: proposed incentives;
requirements that faculty members who have not had previous
experience teaching at secondary school level complete a
specified period of time teaching at secondary schools;
requirements that all faculty members have periodically
required teaching experience at the secondary school level; and
proposal to increase the average student/teacher ratio of the
LPTKs to 12 students per teacher; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter take all measures required to
carry out the action plan, taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
3.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   not later than July 1, 1996, establish the LPTK
teaching practicum team, and, thereafter, maintain such team
until the completion of the Project; and
      (b)   furnish to the Bank for comments, not later than July
31, 1997, the draft handbook for the implementation of the
student teaching practicum, and, promptly thereafter, finalize
the handbook taking into account the comments of the Bank.
4.    In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall take all measures necessary to ensure that such teaching
staff, when returning from overseas and local degree programs,
are offered teaching positions appropriate for the training
received.
5.    In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   not later than October 1, 1996, commence the
development of a test for new undergraduate degree student
assessment at LPTKs; and
      (b)   not later than July 31, 1997, commence the testing of
such students using such test.
6.    In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than June 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for
comments, an action plan for the raising of admission standards
at selected IKIPs, based on the analysis of the testing of new
undergraduate degree students at LPTKs, and, thereafter, carry
out the action plan taking into account the comments of  the
Bank on such plan.
7.    In carrying out Parts B.2 and D.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall make Grants in accordance with the procedures
and on the conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
8.    In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall provide fellowships in accordance with selection criteria
Page  14
agreed with the Bank.
9.    In carrying out Part E.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than October 1, 1996, in accordance with
selection criteria acceptable to the Bank, select at least two
IKIPs for future conversion into a university.
10.   In carrying out Part E.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   maintain, until completion of the Project, a policy
on zero growth in the appointment of faculty members to LPTKs,
except for fields of specialization in which there is a proven
acute shortage of teachers; and
      (b)   not later than October 1, 1996, establish the task
force to coordinate the institutional self-study and peer-
evaluation activities.
11.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than October 1 in each year, commencing
October 1, 1997, and until the completion of the Project,
furnish to the Bank for comments a report on the implementation
of the budget for the Project for the past and current Fiscal
Year, together with the proposed budget for the following
Fiscal Year; and
      (b)   thereafter, revise the proposed budget for the
following Fiscal Year taking into account the Bank's comments.
12.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1998,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by April 1, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank views on the matter.
13.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   cause technical audits of Project implementation to
be carried out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, in each
Fiscal Year during implementation of the Project; and
      (b)   furnish to the Bank for comments as soon as available
but not later than six months after the end of each such year,
a copy of such audit.
14.   The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain
until completion of the Project, a Central Project
Implementation Unit, and local project implementation units at
LPTKs, with competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  15
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                    Procedures and Conditions for Grants
                   under Parts B.2 and D.3 of the Project
1.    Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:
      (a)   to a Grantee who or which shall have established, to
the satisfaction of the Borrower, acting through the Research
Management Team, on the basis of criteria and procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, that said Grantee: (i) (A) in the case
of an individual Grantee, has the qualifications and experience
necessary for the efficient carrying out of the research, and
(B) in all other cases, has the organization, management,
staffing and other resources required for the efficient
carrying out of the Research; and (ii) has prepared an
acceptable plan, including terms of reference, for the carrying
out of the research; and
      (b)   for a research project which is determined by the
Borrower, acting through the Research Management Team, on the
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (i) to be
technically feasible and cost-effective, and (ii) to have been
designed in accordance with appropriate educational standards.
2.    Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, through a single written agreement with each of the
Grantees, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the right, as applicable, to:
      (a)   require the Grantee to carry out the research with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
financial, educational and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
      (b)   require that (i) the goods and services required for
the research and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, (ii) such services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the research, and (iii) such
goods shall be used primarily in the carrying out of the
research;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and any
relevant records and documents;
      (d)   require that the Grantee (except where the Grantee is
an individual) shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers insurance to cover the hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods required for
the research and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder
to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Grantee
to replace or repair such goods;
      (e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the benefits to be derived from the research; and
      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to theuse of the proceeds of 
the Loan upon failure by such Grantee to
perform its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower
providing for the Grant.
                                 SCHEDULE 7
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
Page  16
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                   deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                   the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                   Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                   amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                   documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
Page  17
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
