Report No. 759-RW
Appraisal of an                                                                                           u rOpy
Education Project
Rwanda
May 21, 1975
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Docurnent of the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Developrnent.
International Development Association
This report was prepared for oficial use only by the Bank Group. it may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                    RF 90.00
RF 100         =        US$1.08
MEASURES
1 Kilometer (km)     =        0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)       =       2.47 Acres
1 Square Meter (m2           10.76 Square Feet
GOVERNMENT OF IWAMA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................    i - iv
1.   INTRODUCTION .....................................       1
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS ....   ........    2
Socio-Economic Background ........................       2
Development Potential ............................       3
Human Resources and Rural Development ....   ........    3
Employment in the Modern Sector ....     ..............  4
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ....     ............  4
The System and its Problems .....     .................  4
Education Planning and Development ....    ...........   5
A Phased Investment Program .....     .................   7
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................................       8
Objectives   .......................................     8
Project  Items   ....................................    9
The School Financing and Construction Unit (SFCU)      9
The Printshop of the Ministry of Education  .....      10
Technical Assistance .....................  ..         11
V.   PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT,
FINANCIAL PLAN AND DISBURSEMENTS ....     .............  12
Cost Estimates .........    ...........................    12
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Rwanda in
August-September 1974 and included Messrs. S. Burmester, F. Gamble and
D. Lewis of the Bank and Messrs. J. Auerhan (Unesco), D. Beal (FAO) and
G. Naleppa (consultant). The project was further reviewed in the field
by Messrs. G. Pennisi, S. Burmester and B. Veuthey in November 1974 and
by Mr. G. Sinclair in April 1975.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
Project Implementation               . . .                  15
Procurement .      .      .....................................   16
Financial Pl.mn ..........                                  17
Disbursements                  ....   18
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..                                19
Benefits .........................................          19
Risks involved in the project ....................          20
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............           20
APPENDICES
1.   The Education and Training System
2.   School Building irn Rwanda
ANNEXES
1,   Comparative Educat.ion Indicators
2.   Population of Working Age by Occupational Groups, 1970
3.   Estimated Requirenments and Supply of Manpower with
Education beyond Primary Level
4.   Enrollments and Recurrent Expenditures of the
Ministry of Education
5.   Forecast of Recurrent Expenditures of the Ministry of
Education and of Primary School Enrollment, 1977-1985
6.   Two Alternative Projections of Primary Teacher
Requirements for the Period 1973-1985
7.   Summary of Estimated Project Cost
8e   Project Implementation Schedule
9.   Forecast of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Education Enrollments, 1973-1974                      World Bank 9142
2.   Structure of Education 1973-1974, and
Proposed Reformed Primary Education Structure   World Bank 9143
3.   Structure of the Mlnistry of Education, 1974          World Bank 9161
_AP                                                        IBRD 11275R



R W A N D A
BASIC DATA (Est.)
1973
General
2
Area                                       26,340 knm
Population                                 4.0 million
Population growth rate                     3.0% p.a.
E1loyment
Population of working age                  1.7 million
of which in agriculture                    93%
Wage employment                            49,000
Education
Enrollment in primary schools            398,000
(grades 1 - 6)
As percentage of 7-12 age group           52
Enrollment in junior secondary              6,400
schools (grades 7-9)
As percentage of 13-15 age group           2.1
Enrollment in upper secondary
schools (grades 10-13)                 4,120
As percentage of 16-18 age group           1.4
Enrollment in post secondary                  735
institutions
Total public expenditure on               677 million RF
Education (1972)
As percentage of GDP (1972)                3.2%
As percentage of total govern-
ment expenditure (1972)              28.0%






GLOSSARY
FED          -  Earopean Development Fund
SFCU         -  School Financing and Constraction Unit
Prefecture   -  Province
Secteur      -  School District
Commune      -  Municipality
Bourgmaster  -  Administrative head of the coammme,
appointed by the central Government






RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project in Rwanda for which an
IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent is proposed.
ii.       Increasing agricultural productivity in Rwanda is an urgent necessity
in view of the growing population and the scarcity of land. In this effort,
the education system can play an important role by providing the required
skills. At present it is ill-equipped to meet this objective. In primary
education, facilities are grossly inadequate, lacking the simplest furniture
and teaching materials. Workshops for the newly introduced practical subjects
are non-existent. These weaknesses arise in part because the Government is
not itself involved in school construction, leaving primary school building
to the initiative of local groups who often have inadequate resources and
expertise to construct and equip simple but functional schools. Lack of
transportation prevents the primary school inspectorate from giving adequate
support to teachers. The curriculum is too literary, geared to the needs
of the very small numbers who enter secondary schools. Secondary and higher
education are uncoordinated and often unrelated to Rwanda's manpower needs.
Furthermore, the system is costly. More than one-fourth of the recurrent
budget is spent on education, and an approximately equal amount is supplied
by foreign assistance.
iii.      The Government has started tackling these problems.  The draft
development plan emphasizes the need to increase agricultural output through
rural development schemes. A reform proposal for primary education is under
consideration to make it more relevant to rural needs. The entrance age would
be increased from seven years to nine or ten, so that primary school leavers,
when they graduate at the age of fifteen or sixteen, would be physically
developed for a productive life on the land. Teaching of practical subjects
related to agriculture would be greatly expanded in grades 5 and 6, and all
subjects would be taught in the local language, Kinyarwanda. The reform
proposal has met with opposition and is presently being revised, although
additional emphasis is already being placed on practical subjects in the
primary school curriculum. Any major education investment program should
await the outcome of this revision, but this should not delay a start being
niade on urgently needed improvements. In particular, the existing primary
school facilities are inadequate for instruction in practical subjects, and
textbooks are lacking. Hence a phased approach is suggested, with the first
phase concentrating on improvements in primary education, which will be of
high priority whatever long-term educational strategy is adopted.



iv.       These aims wouid be achieved through:
(a) The developmerLt of a School Financing and Construction
Unit (SFCU) responsible for construction, furnishing and
equipping of aLpproximately one hundred and fifty workshops
for primary sc:hools;
(b) The construction, furnishing and equipping of a printshop
and the provision of paper for the production and distri-
bution of text:books and student guides for grades 1-6;
(c) Technical assistance for: (i) project implementation (44
man-years); (i.i) educational planning aimed at establishment
of revised selection/examination procedures for secondary
education and rationalization of secondary and higher education i/;
and (iii) evaluation of project finance mechanisms, construction
methods and selection procedures for entrance into secondary
education (4 man-years).
v.         A School Financing and Construction Unit has been established
within the Ministry of Education as the central executing agency for all
project items. While responsibility for construction will be maintained a-:
the local level, the Un.Lt will assist these local efforts with administrat:IVe
and technical advice andl the provision of some material. For the proposed
project, the SFCU would procure imported building materials, furrniture and
equipment as well as some local materials for the construction of workshop:s
for primary schools.  Local groups in the communes, represented by the bou:-g-
master, would be responsible for procuring the bulk of local materials and
hiring skilled and unsk:Llled labor, either directly or by employing groups cf
craftsmen.  The SFCU would advance the necessary funds for mobilization to
these local groups and as construction proceeds the bourgmaster would presizr.t
documentation for expen(ditures incurred on a monthly basis to the SFCU and Me
reimbursed accordingly.  The flow of funds would take place through the we'L1-
established postal checlc system in which municipalities (communes) have an
account. Expenditures of the SFCU would be reimbursed by the Association,
through a revolving fund to be established under the direction of the SFCU,
against a certificate oi- expenditures, the detailed documentation of which
would not be submitted to the Association, but retained in the SFCU and av.ail-
able for inspection by the Association during project supervision. The
operation of this finance mechanism would be a precedent for Bank Group edlzca-
tion projects and, therefore, would require careful evaluation.
vi.        Each workshop would have facilities to teach 40 students woodwor',
metalwork, home economics and agriculture. They would be adjacent to prim.lry
schools, which, if not of adequate standard, would be improved with technilal
advice and assistance from the SFCU. The workshops would be built to a star.dard
1/   A request has been made to UNDP.



- iii -
pattern, although the materials used would reflect ecological conditions in
the country and differ somewhat from location to location. Appropriate local
materials would be used in construction to the greatest extent possible and
involvement of the local authorities (communes) would be encouraged. The
construction methods and procedures would help establish a program of economi-
cal and efficient school building, and form a basis for possible further
assistance to education in Rwanda, after resolution of the issue on the reform
referred to in para. iii, above.
vii.      Additional textbooks and student guides are urgently needed to
make primary schools more effective. At present, only a limited amount of
textbooks for teaching Kinyarwanda in the three first grades is available.
For the other main subjects of primary education (mathematics, environmental
studies, French as a foreign language and practical subjects), no textbooks
are available but manuscripts are at an advanced stage of development. As
Rwanda lacks printing facilities, the project would provide a printshop
for the M4nistry of Education and about 700 tons of paper to produce some
2,700,000 textbooks and 1,600,000 student guides over the next six years.
Textbooks and student guides would be distributed to schools by the school
inspectors who are being provided with vehicles by UNICEF.
viii.     New selection procedures for entry into secondary education are
being introduced and would need evaluation after a period of time to ensure
fairness in the distribution of secondary school places. Evaluation of the
performance of the SFCU with respect both to the financial mechanism and
the construction procedures established, should also take place during project
implementation. Four man-years of consultants' services would be provided
under the Credit for evaluation purposes.
ix.       The main benefit expected from the proposed project would be to
help improve the productivity of new entrants into rural life through appro-
priate training. The construction procedures established would help increase
the skills of local craftsmen through on-the-job training and the proposed
financial mechanism would facilitate the channeling of funds from central
to local authori ties. The SFCU is expected to become a permanent institution,
managed and directed by local people, and would eventually be responsible for
execution of all expansion and improvement of education facilities in Rwanda.
its establishment should give the Government greater control of educational
building and hence ultimately improve educational planning.
F. rNeither foreign contractors nor the few capable local contractors
are likely to be interested in bidding for the small, simple, and often
remotely sited structures proposed, especially as their costs are compara-
tively small.  Therefore, normal procedures for competitive bidding are not
appropriate. The communes would be responsible for procuring the bulk of
local materials and providing skilled and unskilled labor, either directly or
by employing groups of craftsmen (who can be found throughout Rwanda). Labor
costs are low in Rwanda and are not expected to exceed US$260,000 equivalent;



- iv -
materials (e.g., bricks) procured by the communes are estimated to cost
US$320,000 equivalent. Self-help would be employed to prepare sites. However
those locally procured building materials (e.g., cement) to be pulrchased ia
bulk (US$330,000 equivalent) would be acquired by the SFCU following local
competitive bidding or the solicitation of competitive offers from local
suppliers. Imported building materials (US$780,000 equivalent) would be pro-
cured by the SFCU following advertisemenit in the local press and in adjaceat:
countries (e.g., Zaire, Kenya) since it is unlikely that contracts would be
of direct interest to overseas suppliers; because of the diversity and smalL.
lots of the items involved. Civil works for the SFCU offices and the prinLE,hop
(US$200,000 equivalent) would be procured by competitive bidding advertiseil
locally. Instructional equipment, furniture and vehicles (US$850,000) woulc.
also be procured by the SFCU following advertisement in the local press anfl
adjacent countries and competitive quotations from local and regional agen:.
of overseas suppliers. International firms are well represented by local
agents both in. Rwanda anid neighboring countries, prices are competitive and
essential after sales services are available. Printing equipment and pape:
contracts (US$1,300,000 equivalent) would be placed by the SFCU following
international competitivre bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines.
xi.       The total cosi: of the project is estimated at US$9.0 million equ:Lva-
lent, corresponding to IJS$8.8 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange
component of US$6.2 mill.ion equivalent or 69% of the total projec.t cost.
This high percentage is the result of the high proportion of imported mate:rials
required and also because local materials are cheap while imported materia_s
are expensive.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 mi1lion equivalent would
correspond to about 90% of total project costs net of taxes. The proposed
project would be completed in approximately six and a half years.
xii.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Cre.it
of US$8.0 million equivalent on standard terms to the Government of Rwanda.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Rwanda's education system contains wide contrasts especially between
primary and secondary education. Primary education generally takes place in
inadequate facilities where basic materials, such as textbooks and furzniture,
are often lacking. On the other hand, largely because of the interest shown
by missionaries and external aid agencies, facilities for secondary schools
are of a reasonable standard.  The classroom loading of primary schools and
their student-teacher ratio are highf, contrasting sharply with the under-
utilization of secondary schools where the student-teacher ratio is uneconomi-
cally low.  Primary education, which is terminal for nearly all children,
should provide courses designed to prepare school leavers for an appro-
priately productive life; instead, the teaching emphasis is on preparation
for entry to secondary schools where only 2% of the relevant age group are
enroll.ed, and these are mainly prepared for employment in the modern sector
or for further study abroad. The Government is aware of these problems and
is considering reforms which would make primary education better geared to the
economic and social needs of the majority of the population and would adjust
secondary and higher education student output to estimated manpower needs.
1.02      Technical and financial assistance for this improvement and re-
orientation of primary education towards rural life is urgently required.
Rwanda's economic prospects hinge on an increase in agricultural productivity
on existing land because little new land is available for development; train-
ing for youth and adults in rural skills could help achieve this. The lack
of a manpower survey and the large number of agencies involved in secondary
and higher education have led to unplanned developments; rationalization at
these levels is required before major new investments are made.
1.03      In November 1973 the Government submitted a request for Bank Group
assistance for two teacher training colleges, retraining of teachers, produc-
tion of textbooks for primary education and expansion of secondary education.
It became clear at an early stage, however, that this request was based on
inadequate planning and over-optimistic estimates of the Government's financial
capacity and implementation capability. The request was discussed with a
Bank/Unesco identification mission which visited Rwanda in March 1974 and
further revised in A-ugust-September 1974 by a preparation-appraisal mission
comtoosed of Messrs. S. Burmester and F. Gamble of the Bank and Messrs. J.
A.ierhan (Unesco), D. Beal (FAO), and G. Naleppa (consultant). The mission was
assisted by Mr. D. Lewis of the Bank. A mission consisting of Messrs. G.
Pennisi, S. Burmester, and B. Veuthey of the Bank discussed the findings of
the preparation-appraisal mis-sion with the Government in November 1974 and
completed the appraisal. In April 1975, Mr. G. Sinclair of the Bank conducted
further field review of the project, particularly of its implementation and
architectural aspects.
1I04      The Bank missions concluded that a phased investment program in
line with the availability of government financial as well as managerial and



- 2 --
administrative resources would be more appropriate to Rwanda's needs. In the
first phase, emphasis s'hould be given to the needs of primary education arnd
in view of the need to rationalize the existing system (para. 1.02), no ir.vest-
ments should be undertaken in secondary and higher education, including te!ac her
training, at this stage.  Hence, the proposed project would provide facilities
for teaching of practical subjects of relevance to rural life in primary C!dl-
cation, establish a system of economic school construction, supp:Ly primary
school textbooks and student guides, and strengthen the primary school inDpfec-
torate. It would consist of:
(a) The development of a School FiLnancing and Construction
Unit responsible for constructing, furnishing and
equipping of 150 workshops for practical subjects teaching;
(b)  The development of a printshop for production and distri-
bution of textbooks and student guides; and
(c)  Technical assistance for project implementation and evaluation.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
2.01       Socio-Economic Background. R%anda is a poor, landlocked country
in the heart of Africa. With GDP per capita estimated at US$60 equivalent in.
1972 and increasing at some 2% to 3% p.a., Rwanda is among the poorest cou.-
tries in the world and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future.
The country is small and the unusually hilly terrain makes transportation
difficult. There are t,en prefectures (provinces); 75 secteurs (school
districts), and 141 comnunes (municipalities).
2.02      With a population of four million in 1973, growing at almost 3%
p.a., Rwanda is overpopulated with a shortage of readily cultivable land.
Ninety-seven gercent of the population is rural.  The population density
in 152 per km , the higlhest in Africa, and possibilities for relieving the
population pressure through emigration to less populated neighboring count:^ies
seem remote for ethnic and political reasons. Kinyarwanda is the national
language spoken by all; urban-rural income differences exist but are smalllt
than ia most developing countries; 1I and the tribal conflicts of the 195G.l
appear resol]ved.  The adult literacy rate is estimated at 23%, a comparati,Fr-
ly high ratio for an African country as poor as Rwanda (Annex 1).
2.03      Agricultural production accourLted for 63% of GDP and 62% of expo::ts
in 1972.  The typical Riwandese smallholder has five surviving children for
whom he attempts to provide the basic necessitles on a plot of little more
than one ha.  He and his wife use manual. tools for cultivation, often only a
hoe.  No mineral fertiliLzer is used.  As a consequence, about 98% of the
1/   Average urban incomaes are twice r-ural incomes; this ratio is about filre
to one in Kenya.



cultivated land is used for production of subsistence crops and unfavorable
weather leads to frequent scarcities.  Worldwide inflation caused the
consumer price index in Kigali to rise by 27% between December 1973 and
August 1974, and the prices of basic foodstuffs (bananas, beans, potatoes)
have, in recent months, increased by as much as 100%. Due to bad weather in
the Spring of 1974, near famine conditions exist in the northern part of the
country.
2.04      Development Potential.  The first Five-Year Plan (1966-70) consisted
of a list of projects out of which about 60% were realized.  Implementation
was hampered by lack of funds and by inadequate development administration.
A second Five-Year Plan (1972-76) was completed by April 1973 but was never
approved due to a change of Government in July 1973. Overall guidance for
planning has been lacking. Proposals from the several provincial and sectoral
commissions have been far in excess of financial and managerial resources and
adjustments have been difficult because clear priorities were not established.
The Plan is now under revision.  It is known that strong emphasis will be
given to rural development. This is all the more necessary since the modern
sector, even under favorable conditions, cannot absorb the ever increasing
population of working age. Agricultural productivity can and should be
increased. Several inputs are required to achieve this; among them are a
more systematic and sustained extension effort and basic and adult training
related to rural life. With no other apparent resources, Rwanda's potential
for development rests with its land and people. An integrated approach to
develop both to the maximum extent possible and with the minimum cost is
required. Due to the extreme poverty of the country, development of the
skills and knowledge of the people and their effective utilization in the
national economy represent major challenges to planners and policy-makers.
2.05      Most public investment is financed by external assistance and the
contribution of foreign aid to current expenditure is substantial; e.g., in
the case of education about 50% of recurrent expenditures are financed by
foreign aid. It seems unlikely that the country has the means to balance
even its ordinary budget with domestic revenues only.
2.06      Human Resources and Rural Development. The population of working
age was estimated at 1.76 million in 1970 of whom approximately 93% found
their livelihood in agriculture (Annex 2). With such a large proportion
-i the population employed in agriculture and taking into account the scarcity
.. land, the socio-economic development of Rwanda is crucially dependent on
m2hing rural people more productive.  A transition from traditional agricul-
tural practices to a more intensive and diversified mixed farming system should
and can take place. The adoption of new cultivation techniques and practices
in ch  traditional sector requires improved training for both young and adult
farmers. Every year roughly 110,000 young people enter the working age popu-
lation. At most 6,000 of them can be absorbed into wage employment (Annex 3).
The rest have to find their livelihood from the land, They are not at present
equipped for this task. About 40,000 will have had a full primary education
which, ho-orever, has been geared towards preparation for secondary education



- 4 a
rather than rural life.  Another 10,000 may have had sufficient primary educa-
tion to become literate. The rest are illiterate, and cannot be expected to
easily understand and adopt new techniques or improve old ones.  The improvement
of school programs is thus of the greatest importance.
2.07      Employment in the Modern Sector.  No manpower survey has been car-
ried out in Rwanda. A sample inquiry in 1970 estimated wage employment at
some 49,000 people.  Barnk Group staff estimates of supply and need for highier
and middle level manpower (Annex 3) show that supply and need are in rough
balance at least in the near future. Although specific needs, may not be
met, the overall situation in middle and higher level manpower cautions ag,ainst
investments in secondary, and higher education facilities at this time.
2.08      In conclusion, the stringent financial situation, the limited ad
ministrative capacity of the Government and the embryonic state of plannin..;
justify a cautious approach. As far as education is concerned, investments-
at this stage should be directed towards improving the rural skills of the
population through quality improvements in primary education.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
3.01      The System and its Problems.  The Rwandese education system
(Appendix 1 and Charts 1 and 2) is marked by a strong dichotomy between th,i:
primary and secondary levels. Primary school enrollments (400,000) repres'.nt
52% 1/ of the 7-12 age group; secondary school enrollment (10,500) is less
than 2% of the 13-19 age group.  Primary school facilities are often very
poor with 45% of all ClaSsrooms consisting of a mud hut with insufficient
window space and little or no furniture; secondary facilities are usually
good. Primary school classes are crowded with 51 students per teacher on
the average; there are l.ess than 13 secondary school students per teacher.
Primary schools are often built by local parental groups and recurrent cos:s
are met by the Government; secondary schools have invariably been built by
missionaries or foreign aid, and about 80% of recurrent costs are met from
non-government sources.
3.02      The efficiency of many primary school teachers is adversely affet:tnd
by the poor teaching env,ironment.  Primary teacher qualifications have ste.id-
ily improved and now nearly 40% of the teachers are fully qualified by the
Government7s own standards 2/; however, such teachers are paid more than tv;ize
as much as underqualified teachers. Teachers' salaries absorb 97% of the i:e-
current funds and teaching aids such as penc4is and paper are often lackin.;
students textbooks do nct exist, except for the newly printed textbooks in
Kinyarwanda for the first three grades. The first three primary grades haFle
1/   Based on the 1970 population census figures.  If UN population figures
are used, this percentage becomes 63%.
2/   i.e., having at least five years' secondary level education.



-
only half-day schooling. 1/ Although only 6% of primary school leavers who
complete the course get a secondary place, the curriculum is overly literary
and geared to the needs of this minor'ty. Repetition and dropout rates are
high, but are diminishing.
3.03      The secondary education system offers a multitude of programs of
varying lengths and levels. Together with the developing higher education
system, it has suffered from a lack of cohesion in the programs resulting
from the wide diversity of the sources of foreign aid. The proportion of
foreign secondary school teachers employed is high (303 out of 934), but
declining.  Foreign teachers outnumber Rwandese in higher education; as they
are paid from abroad the Government will be called upon to meet an increasing
proportion of recurrent secondary and higher education costs as more Rwandese
teachers are employed; at present, the Government meets only some 20% of these
costs, which are inflated by the high salaries paid to foreigners.
3.04      In addition to the general primary and secondary education system,
there are a number of experimental programs at the primary and post-primary
levels. The 3-year post-primary programs for girls in homecrafts and kitchen
agriculture are the most important with an enrollment of about 5,000; those
for boys enroll only 600 in artisan and agricultural courses. Many of
these post-primary programs are well run and serve a useful function, but
they cannot be replicated on a large scale because they compete with primary
education for scarce recurrent funds. Complementing this formal education
system is a widespread non-formal system for children and adults. More
information is given in Appendix 1, para. 15, but details of the programs and
the actual attendance as distinct from the registration figures are not
available.
3.05      In sum the main problems of the system are (i) an over literary
primary education with little practical content or relevance for the 94% of
primary school leavers who do not enter secondary education; (ii) inadequate
facilities in many primary schools; and (iii) an uncoordinated secondary
education system. The challenge of educational development in Rwanda is to
mueet these problems while not unduly increasing the already high proportion
{about 25%) of government expenditures devoted to education (Annex 4). The
problem areas (ii) and (iii) arise partly because the Government is not
presently involved in school construction, relying on local initiatives for
primary school construction and on foreign efforts at the secondary level.
The recent establishment of a Government School Financing and Construction
tUni'i (SFCU) is a step towards resolving these problems.
3>061     Education Planning and Development.  To make the education system
more responsive to the country's needs, the Ministry of Education in 1974
pTroposed a far-reaching reform of primary education, the main elements of
wh{T.ih are: (i? a basic course of four years for all beginning at age nine
or ten; (ii) after a selection based on aptitudes, a two-year terminal course
1/   Thase classes have only 15-1/2 hours instruction per week compared with
31 laours for the upper grades.



- 6 -
for 90% of the students to prepare them for immediate employment, with ha..f
the time being devoted to practical subjects related to agriculture, and a
two-year pre-secondary course for the remaining 10% emphasizing French, thi:e
medium of instruction in secondary schools. Quantitatively, the reform
envisages an enrollment of 100% of the 10-15 year age group by 1980.  Secondary
education is not treated in detail in the reform proposals, but it is con;ider-
ed that it should be geared to manpower requirements and needs rationalizi.Ltion.
3.07      The proposed reform has been discussed by an Education Commissiun
and opposition has manifested itself to the proposals to postpone entry tt:
primary schools to age nine or ten, and to select for secondary education
after only four years of primary education. On the other hand, the Commis-
sion agreed that practical subjects should be introduced into primary educ:a-
tion as soon as possible. Consequently, since September 1974, eight hour:. per
week of practical subjects are mandatory for all students in grades 5 and 6,
although facilities to give this instruction are presently lacking. Also.,
the age of entry into primary school is being raised to eight (school year:
1975-76). Finally, the Government has requested UNDP to finance a comprel-easive
technical assistance project to review the reform proposals, develop syllabi,
carry out long-term educational planniag and program the implementation o..
needed improvements. It is likely that this project will start before the.
end of 1975 and that a detailed action program will be formulated by 1977-
78.
3.08      At the individual school level, the Government's policies of imlprov-
ing primary school facilities as means permit and of rationalizing the sylitem
by the development of schools offering the full six-year course ,are evideiitly
sound. While few educators would accep t that increasing the age of entry
to primary schools from seven to nine oz ten is educationally desirable, the
reform proposals are appropriate under the circumstances of Rwanda; in part:L-
cular, the use of Kinyarwanda as the language of instruction and the great e-
emphasis on practical agriculture-based subjects in the curriculum is essen--
tial if primary education is to become more responsive to needs (para. 2.06'.
The Government and the Association will exchange views on further developnulnts
of the educational reform with special reference to the possible expansior
of practical subjects teaching (para. 3.07) during the course of project s iper-
vision.  For practical instruction to be effective, performance 4l n practicaj.
subiects needs to be taken into account in procedures for entry into secorlary
educat.ion,  Withinl two wears of signing the Credit Agreement, the Governme at:
will send proposed revised selection/examination procedures for entry intc
secondary schools to thie Association for its comments.
3.09      Quantitatively, the achievemenit of full primary educat"ion by 198)
as suggested in the proposed reform (para. 3.06) is clearly out of the que3-
tion: not only would the unit costs of any reformed system be higher than
those of the existing, but a recent (1974) increase in teachers' salaries



- 7 -
will also have an adverse effect on the achievement of higher enrollment
ratios. These increased teacher salaries have been used in compiling Annex 5,
which gives two alternative enrollment projections. Alternative 2, the less
likely, shows that if total public expenditures grow in real terms as foreseen
in the draft development plan (7.9%) and if education continues its present
share of government expenditures, then some 570,000 pupils could be enrolled
by 1985 against 400,000 at present. This would represent about 60% 1/ of the
estimated population aged 10-15 years, i.e., the basic education age group if
the reform is accepted. This continued growth of expenditures cannot be
guaranteed, and a more conservative estimate is given in Alternative 1, in
which total expenditures grow by 5% annually in real terms and education's
share in them is reduced to 26%. Assuming further that primary education
takes only 63% of the education budget against 67% now, and that minimum
reasonable provisions are made for expenditures on equipment, then only
470,000 pupils could be enrolled by 1985. This would involve an increase in
primary enrollments of only 1.5% p.a., less than the rate of increase in the
age group, estimated in UN projections at 3.5% p.a., but it would nevertheless
reverse the recent trend in primary school enrollments, which have decreased
by 5% over the last three years, due mainly to the more stringent control of
the entrance age which was introduced in 1971. The teacher requirement
implications of the two projections are summarized in Annex 6.
3.10      With regard to secondary and higher education, the student/teacher
ratios are so low that a considerable expansion of the system could be made
without substantially increasing recurrent costs if the system were rational-
ized. It is likely, however, that the Government's share in recurrent costs
will increase as more Rwandese are employed in teaching at these levels
(para. 3.03). The needs of Rwanda for highly trained manpower are very
limited and are likely to remain so (Annex 3). Rationalization of secondary
and higher education will need the cooperation of external aid agencies;
technical assistance is already being provided under a UNDP/ILO project
started in the Spring of 1975; a comprehensive manpower survey is expected
to be completed by 1977.
3.11      A Phased Investment Program.  Any comprehensive investment pro-
gram in education must await the final decision on the reform proposals and
the preparation of a detailed program of implementation. Investments in
secondary and higher level education should be made only after completion
of the UNDP/ILO study of manpower needs and a rationalization of the system.
A phased approach is thus needed, with the first phase concentrating on
improvements in primary education which are of high priority, whatever
sound long-term educational strategy is adopted by the Government. These
improvements would include the development of more relevant and hence pro-
ductive primary school programs, particularly for rurally oriented practical
1/   Based on UN population projections, according to which the present
primary enrollment ratio is already 63%.



-8-
subjects, the promotion of the use of Kinyarwanda as the medium of instvUction,
the reorientation of studies to fit local traditions and needs and the
establishment of effective and economical building procedures.
3.12      While the main effort will be required of the Government, bililteral
and other donors wil]L. assist in these developments. A team of French experts
has studied the need for practical subject teachers and the development of
suitable programs bot:h in primary schools and primary teacher training colleges,
As a result, the Government has decided that from September 1975, 60-80 experi-
enced primary school teachers p.a. would receive a nine-month in-servicei course
at the Rural Artisan Training Center at Gitarama which has operated successfully
since 1970 with Frenc:h technical assistance and where almost all expatriate
instructors have been replaced by qualified Rwandese.  Belgium, the lar;gest
aid donor, is heavily involved in secondary and higher education and is unlikely
to enter the primary education field; however, in cooperation with other bilateral
and multilateral agencies, Belgium is assisting the establishment and operation
of a well integrated curriculum development center.
3.13      Within this framework, a Bank Group project complementing the eEforts
of other donors has been formulated to assist the Government to develop its
educational system. This proposed project would assist the first phase of
an integrated program and help develop more relevant primary education. The
second phase would be dependent on progress made in the education refo=r: proposa.Ls:
a second project in the late 1970s would probably extend the assistance a.forded
under the first project and possibly also include aid for primary teacher and
extension agent training. In this second phase and in a possible third pliase
the needs of secondary education might be considered in detail based on man-
power needs and rationalization of the secondary education system (paras.
3.07 and 3.10).
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would help the Government in the first phase
of a comprehensive approach towards improving the quality and efficiency of
primary education.
4.02      The project would consist of:
(a)  The development of a School Financing and Construction Unit
responsible for construction, furnishing and equipping of
approximately 150 workshops for practical subject teaching
with about 6,000 student places.



- 9 -
(b)  The construction, furnishing and equipping of a printshop
and the provision of paper for the production and distribution
of textbooks and student guides.
(c)  Technical assistance for:  (i) project implementation (44 man-
years); and (ii) evaluation of project finance mechanisms,
constr-uction methods, and selection/examination procedures for
secondary education (4 man-years).
Project Items
4.03      The School Financing and Construction Unit (SFC1).  As mentioned
in para. 3.05, the Government has not been involved in school construction.
Although by relying exclusively on local initiatives in primary education,
scarce Governmerit development funds have been saved and community involvement
has been assured, this has also led in many cases to inadequate facilities
that cannot be used efficiently for ordinary instructional purposes (paras.
3.01 and 3.02), and still less for teaching practical subjects. As a means
towards improved planning in school development and construction methods, a
SFCU was established by Presidential decree in March 1975.
4.04      The Director of the SFCU has been appointed, and the other prin-
cipal officers would be an Architect (or Civil Engineer), a Procurement
Officer and an Accountant. It was agreed that all would be appointed on a
full--time basis, after consultation with the Association on qualifications
and terms of reference.  Due to the lack of experienced local specialists,
it is likely that the Architect and the Procurement Officer would have to be
recruited from abroad. The Government is seeking suitable candidates through
appropriate advertising; their services are included in the total project
cost (10 man-years of technical assistance). In addition, 32 man-years of
field staff services to supervise and provide technical advice to local
craftsmen at construction sites are included under technical assistance
provisions, although these services may be provided under German, French,
Arierican and/or tUN programs. Should some of this external assistance be
forthcominn, the savings would be used for purposes related to the project.
It is also possible that some of the field staff would be recruited among
nationals. The field staff would consist of eight civil engineering tech-
ricians. Their appointment would be based on selection criteria and terms
of referenice determined by the SFCU1 in consultation with the Association.
405      Architectural/engineering services to the communes would be pro-
vided by the stafL of the SFCU including its field staff.  Designs and
methods of construction have been developed with a view to making the most
appropriate .uLse of local materials and techniques, taking into account
regional variations.  The Government confirmed that it will provide counter-
parts to the expatriate staff of the SFCU for training and later rep'Lacement
of expatriates. The SFCU would first be accomnodated in rented facilities



10 -
and later in a new building adjacent to the printshop of the Ministry o:l
Education.  Expenditures for rent and the cost of the new building as wt.11.
as the provision of vehicles, equipment and operational expenditures fo:- the
SFCU would be provided under the project.
4.06      Workshops for primary schools would provide facilities for
instruction in 'simple agricultural-related woodwork, metalwork and home
economics. Each commune would be provided with a workshop. Each worksho?
would have room for 40 students and include a metal and woodwork shop, ai
kitchen, and storage space. To ensure appropriate utilization, workshop:s
would only be provided for primary schools which have at least two classIes
in both grades 5 and 6, and a plot of land of about one ha on which the
students would be given instruction in agricultural techniques. Eight hours
of practical work in the present timetable would mean that the workshops are
used for about 32 hours a week.  Furthermore, the workshop would be used :-or
training adults after school hours and during vacations.  The schools should
be of a reasonable standard.  If they are not, improvements would be made
with the technical assistance of the SFCU. Assurances to this effect were
obtained from the Government.  The 6,000 student places to be provided in
the workshops would allow about one-fourth of all primary school students to
receive instruction in practical subjects. The workshops would be built, to
a standard pattern, aLthough the materials used would reflect the differenlt
ecological conditions in the country and differ somewhat from location t 
location. Construction methods presently in use for primary schools and
those envisaged for the workshops are described in Appendix 2. It is es.3en-
tial that the workshops provide austere but adequate facilities, at minimini
cost; if they can be constructed at lower cost than presently estimated,E then
more workshops or primary schools would be built.  The envisaged construc:tion
methods and procedures should help establish a program of economic and e:-ficient
school building in Rwanda, leading to widespread improvements in educatiriral
and construction stanclards.
4.07      Sufficient rLumbers of practical subject teachers Lor girls are
available, having been trained for the post-primary homecraft courses (p.I.ra.
3.04), but teachers of practical subjects for boys are lacking.  These w,uld
be selected and recruited from existing prLmary school teachers who wou',:. be
given in-service courses at the Rural Artisarn Training Center at Gitaram. as
depicted in para. 3.192. The Government confirmed that bilateral assistai,ca
for the training of these practical subject teachers is forthcoming.
4.08      The Printshop of the Ministry of Education.  Textbooks and guic.es
for students and teachers in the main subjects of primary education
(Kinyarwanda, mathematics, environmental studies, practical subjects and
French as a foreign language) are required 'para. 3.02). A limited amoult
of textbooks for teaching Kinyarwanda has been procured boy the Government



- 11 -
for the three lower grades and introduced successfully in some schools.
Manuscripts in Kinyarwanda have been prepared for mathematics and are at
an advanced stage of development for the other subjects. It is expected
that they will be completed and tested as a part of the UNDP technical
assistance project (para. 3.07). However, as syllabi for practical subjects
and environmental studies will be revised as experience is gained, teaching
in the initial stage would be based on student guides, each of approximately
25 pages. In order to provide each primary school student with textbooks
and guides and to allow for replacement during the project, a total of about
2,700,000 textbooks and 1,600,000 student guides are required. The existing
Government printshop is overloaded and the few printers available in Rwanda
cannot handle the production and timely distribution of such a volume of
textbooks and student guides. Printing overseas would be expensive; a textbook
produced abroad would cost three times as much as a textbook printed locally.
Therefore, the project would provide a printshop for the Ministry of Education
to be located on the same site as the SFCU which also accommodates the Belgian-
assisted curriculum developaent center and the building being constructed
by the UNDP to house the offices of their technical assistance project (paras.
3.07 and 3.12). Altogether, the complex would form a well-integrated
educational services center which, inter alia, would promote improved co-
ordination of foreign assistance to the sector (paras. 3.01 and 3.03). The
project would provide buildings, furniture and equipment (e.g. two off-set
machines, a paper sorting machine, two typesetting machines) for the printshop
as well as about 700 tons of paper needed to produce the textbooks and student
guides. Two man-years of specialist services for the operation, maintenance
and repairs of the printing equipment would be provided under the technical
assistance provisions of the project.
4.09      Textbooks and student guides would be delivered to the schools
by the SFCU and by the district inspectors. Vehicles for the SFCU would be
provided as a part of the project (para. 4.05) and vehicles for the
district inspectors are being supplied under a UNICEF program aimed at
strengthening the school inspectorate. The inspectors would be trained in
the use of the new textbooks and student guides through seminars to be organized
in the facilities of the educational services center being formed in Kigali
and outlined in the previous paragraph. In turn, they would instruct the
primary school teachers, particularly those less qualified, after delivering
the books and during regular visits to the schools.
4.10      Technical Assistance.  To assist in project implementation and
rationalization of secondary education, the project would provide for
expatriate specialists as follows:
(a) Forty-four man-years of specialist services, including field
staff, to assist in general project administration and
implementation, details of which are given in paras.
4.04 and 4.08.
(b) Four man-years of consultants' services for the evaluation of;
(i) the new selection/examination procedures for entry into



- 12 -
secondary education to be established under the reform
proposals; and (ii) the finance mechanisms envisaged for thle
SFCU (discussed in para. 5.13) which would be a precedent
for this type of Bank Group involvement in the education
sector.  Hence an evaluation of the performance of the Unit
with respect to both the financial mechanisms and construct.:.cn
procedures should take place. These evaluations would be
carried out by consultants under terms of reference reviewed
by the Association.
Technical assistance for educational and manpower planning, curriculum devel-
opment and the formulation of revised examination/selection procedures for
entry into secondary education is being provided under various multilatearal
and bilateral programs (paras. 3.07, 3.10., 3.12). Should some of these
programs be extended to include part of the technical assistance and/or the
printing equipment to be provided under the project, primary schools wiould
be upgraded or more workshops would be built in order to facilitate a more
extensive introduction of practical subjects in primary education (para. 4.07).
V. PROJECT C)ST ESTIMATES, IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT,
FINANCIAL PLAN AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      The proposed project is estimated to cost US$9.0 million equ:valent.
The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the various itemns of
the project are given in Annex 7 and summarized below:



- 13 -
Rwanda Francs             US Dollars         % of
(millions)            (millions)          Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture
& Instructional Equip-
ment for 150 Workshops    77.40  117.90  195.30  0.86   1.31         2.17   42
2. Civil Works, Printing
Equipment and Paper for
the Printshop of the
Ministry of Education       13.50  118.80  132.30  0.15   1.32       1.47   28
3.  Technical Assistance         26.10   60.30   86.40  0.29   0.67       0.96   18
4.  Project Administration       15.30   20.70   36.00  0.17   0.23       0.40    8
5.  Project Evaluation            5.40   12.60   18.00  0.06   0.14       0.20    4
Total Base Cost /1
before contingencies   137.70  330.30  468.00  1.53   3.67         5.20  100
5. Contingencies
a) Physical
Increase (11%)        18.90   31.50   50.40  0.21   0.35        0.56
b) Estimated Price
Increase (56%)        97.20  194.40  291.60  1.08   2.16        3.24
Total Contengencies    116.10  225.90  342.00  1.29   2.51         3.80
Total Project Cost
(including taxes)              253.80  556.20  810.00  2.82   6.18        9.00
/1   April 1975
5.02      Construction cost estimates have been established based on economical
building standards and maximum use of local materials.  Preliminary sketch
plans were prepared by the Government and reviewed by the Association before
negotiations.  The estimated cost per square meter of the workshops is US$55
equivalent (Appendix 2), assuming that self-help will be utilized for site
clearance and indigenous construction materials will be employed to the
maximum extent feasible. This cost compares favorably with the cost per square
meter of the primary schools constructed by the Elementary School Building



- 14 -
Unit in Ethiopia (US$60 equivalent) aind with the estimated costs of the tural
education centers in the second education project in the Sudan (US$75 eqiuiva-
lent). Furniture and equipment cost estimates have been based on detailed
lists which were reviLewed by the Association before negotiations.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project as well as remuneration of technical assistance personnel
would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes in line with the practice
of the Rwanda Government to grant customs and tax exemption to imports for
educational purposes and to technical assistance staff. Much of the building
materials to be used in construction and some furniture and equipment would
be acquired on the open market and accordingly would have been subject to
customs duties and/or taxes.  Of the estimated costs, about US$200,000 eqaiva-
lent would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.04      Contingency Allowances add 25% for unforeseen factors to the costs
of civil works for the workshops, 10% to the cost of equipment and 5% tc -he
costs of printing equipment, paper, vehicles, technical assistance, prolect
evaluation and project administration. The 25% contingency for the civil
works cost of workshops is justified in case attempts to utilize self-help
and local materials should not turn out to be as successful as presently
envisaged. This contingency is based on estimated construction cost per
square meter of US$70 without use of self-help and local materials and cn
the possibility that only half the institutions will be constructed as
envisaged in the US$55 equivalent estimate. Estimated price increases are
based on the following annual rates of price escalation reckoned up to t1e
estimated time of completion of construction, delivery of equipment and
termination of professional services:
Furniture, Equip-           Technical Assis:ance
ment, Vehicles,           Project AdministrAition
Civil Works          Paper                and Project EvaluaLtion
1975                15%               11%                            9%
1976                12%2               7.5%                          6%
1977                12%,               7.5%                          6%
1978                12%                7.5%                          6%
1979                12%                7.5%                          6%
1980                12%                7.5%                          6%
5.05      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works, 55%; (b) furniture, 65%; (c) instructional equipment, 7'%;
(d) printing equipment and paper, 100%; (e) technical assistance, 70% (f)
project administration, 60%. The foreign exchange component for civil works
may seem high for the relatively simple structures contemplated, but local
materials and labor are cheap, whereas all imported materials are very ex;pensive.
Furthermore, even such a basic material as cement has to be imported.  Inz.ud-
ing contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US$6.2 million, or 69% of the total project cost of US$9.0 milliLon.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
5.06      The project would be implemented in about six and a half years
after Credit effectiveness (Annex 8) including six months for completion of
payments and withdrawals from the Credit Account. The SFCU carried out
considerable preparatory work before negotiations (para. 5.02).  A sum not
exceeding US$30,000 equivalent would be required to cover project administra-
tion expenditures incurred after March 30, 1975, so as to permit continuation
of preparatory work in accordance with the estimated schedule.  The SFCU
would have overall responsibility for project implementation including liaison
with the Association, the other Ministries and the local authorities, primarily
the communes. Implementation of the project consists mainly of two elements:
(i) provision and distribution of textbooks, student guides, furniture and
instructional equipment; and (ii) design, management and supervision of con-
struction. While implementation of project components depicted under (i)
presents no unusual features, special procedures for design, management and
supervision of civil works for the workshops have been developed to meet the
objectives of: (a) encouraging community participation (para. 4.01) and (b)
promoting low-cost construction (para. 4.06) and are summarized in the
following paragraphs.
5.07      Site Selection.  The SFCU would make a list of all potential work-
shop sites according to the following criteria: (i) workshops would be
adjacent only to primary schools which have at least two classes for each. of
the fifth and sixth grades (para. 4.06); (ii) availability of at least one ha
of land for agricultural work; (iii) at least one workshop per commune; and
(iv) readiness of the commune to provide self-help for site preparation and
construction work. Before negotiations, the Government forwarded to the
Association a list of 66 sites chosen according to these criteria, and has
confirmed that these criteria will be applied for all workshops.
5.08      Design and Construction Standards.  The SFCU has developed design
and construction standards for the workshops and is preparing preliminary lists
of building materials to be bulk procured. The standard designs and advice
on cost estimation would be sent by the SFCU to the bourgmasters who would
be requested to provide the SFCU with the following data for eacn site:  (a)
conformity with the criteria outlined irn para. 5.07; (b) availability of local
building materials and craftsmen; (c) expected community contribution toward
the construction of the workshop; and (d) detai'ed cost estimates for each
workshop. The SFCU would assist the bourgmaster in collecting the information,
review the data, and make a recommendation as to whether construction work
should be authorized in accordance with a phased plan of implementation. On
the basis of a review of the data provided by the bourgmasters, the SFCU would
finalize the list of building materials to be bulk-procured, purchase them,
store them as appropriate and deliver them to the sites according to the phased
implementation plan.
5.09      Management and Supervision of Construction.  At the individual sites,
construction would be carried out either by means of separate trade contracts
or direct management of field teams, which may requize miobilization of funds.



-. 16 -
For this purpose, advances would be provided by the SFCU to the bourgmasters
in their capacity as legal representatives of the communes; the bourgmasters
would be responsible for awards of the contracts; these are not expected to
exceed US$5,000 equiLvalent per site.  Supervision of construction woul:i be
carried out by the bourgmaster himself with the assistance of the prov::.ncial
inspector, and the clistrict inspector as well as the field staff of thl. SFCU.
Upon receipts of bills and standard certificates, signed by the bourgm,:ster,
and the provincial inspector, the SFCU would reimburse the local authority by
crediting the postal. checking account of the commune. Before final acczeptance
of the works, the field staff of the SFCU would inspect each workshop ior
defects and liabilit:ies as appropriate. To ensure adequate maintenance or
the workshops, the SFCU would initiate appropriate maintenance procedures
and prepare a manual. on the maintenance of primary education facilities..,
including the project workshops.
Procurement
.5 10     Civil Works. Neither foreign contractors nor the few local (::oa-
tractors are likely to be interested in bidding for the small, simple, a;id
often remotely sited structures proposed. Therefore, normal procedures for
competitive bidding are not appropriate and the following procedures wcuLd
be followed:
(i) The communes would be responsible (para. 5.09) for procuring
local materials available in the communes and hiring skilled
and unskilled labor, either directly or by employing groups of
craftsmen (who can be found throughout Rwanda). Labor costs
are low in Rwanda and are not expected to exceed US$260,000
equivalent; materials procured by the communes (e.g., bricks)
are estimated to cost US$320,000 equivalent. Self-help woule
be employed to prepare sites.
(ii) The SFGU would acquire building materials (e.g., cernent)
whenever it is more economical to purchase these materials
in bulk (US$330,000 equivalent) following local competitive
bidding or, if the Association so agrees, the solicitation
of competitive offers from local suppliers.
(iii) The SFCU would also procure! imported building materials
(US$780,000 equivalent) following advertisement in the
local press and in adjacent countries (e.g. Zaire, Kenya).
(iv)  Civil works for the printshop and the SFCU offices
(US$200,000) would be procured through competitive
bidding advertised locally.
lIender and/or quotation evaluation documents individually amounting to :.ess
th.an US20,000 equivalent need not be reviewed by the Association prior to
Contract award.



- 17 -
5.11      Instructional equipment, furniture and vehicles (US$850,000
equivalent) would also be procured by the SFCU following advertisement in
the local press and adjacent countries. International firms are well repre-
sented by local agents both in Rwanda and neighboring countries and prices
are competitive. Review by the Association of tender/quotation evaluation
documents prior to contract award would not be required for contracts of less
than US$20,000 equivalent. In addition, to facilitate procurement of small
items, contracts of less than US$2,500 equivalent would be awarded through
local purchasing by the SFCU up to an aggregate total of US$200,000 equivalent.
5.12      Printing Equipment and Paper.  Contracts for printing equipment
(US$300,000 equivalent) and for the 700 tons of paper required for the printing
of textbooks and student guides (para. 4.08) and estimated to cost US$1,000,000
equivalent would be procured by the SFCU following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Tender evaluation documents
would be reviewed by the Association prior to contract award.
Financial Plan
5.13      The Financial Plan provides for IDA assistance of US$8.0 million
to help finance the various major components of the project as follows:
(US$ millions)
Rwanda
Category                  Government      IDA Credit      Total
1.   Civil Works                   0.18           1.45          1.63
2.   Furniture and
Instructional
Equipment                     0.20           0.55          0.75
3.   Printing Equip-
ment and Paper                  -            1.30          1.30
4.   Technical
Assistance                    0.16           0.80          0.96
5.   Project Admin-
istration and
Consultants'
Services                      0.05           0.55          0.60
6.   Contingencies                  0.41          3.35          3.76
Total                    1.00           8.00          9.00
Of which taxes           0.20             -           0.20



- 18 -
The total Government contribution would be RF 92.8 million (US$1,000,CO(
equivalent), including RF 18.6 million taxes, spread over a period of s:Lx
years with a maximum contribution of US$300,000 equivalent in any year.
The Government attaches high priority to the project and the capital counter-
part funds are within its capability.  A schedule of annual budgetary appro-
priations was agreed upon. The project can be implemented only if local.
contractors and craftsmen are paid promptly and receive advances for z,.vbiliza-
tion as appropriate (para. 5.09). Therefore, it is essential that a ravolving
fund should be set up within the SFCU with an initial contribution of JS$100,0DO
equivalent from the Government, from which the SFCU would procure those mate-
rials and services which would not be disbursed by the Association directly
to suppliers. The S'FCU would seek reimbursement from the Association ir. the
normal course, and iuture Government. contributions to the revolving fund would
be made so that the fund would be maintained at an average of $100,000 equiva-
lent during the pro'Ject implementation period. The Government confirmed that
the revolving fund will be established in a special account with the National
Bank of Rwanda and provided assurances that the initial and continuing contri-
butions to the fund would be made. The establishment of the revolving fund
would be a conditior, of effectiveness for the Credit Agreement.
5.14      The recurrent expenditures generated by the project are esti::.ated
at RF 65 million (including allocations for replacement of textbooks, ::aDer,
vehicles, etc.), which is equivalent to 19% of estimated project cost, exclud-
ing contingencies, technical assistance, project administration and prcject
evaluation, or 5.7% of estimated Ministry of Education recurrent expenditures
in 1981 (Annex 5).  It is expected that project generated recurrent expendi-
tures could be met within the Ministry's ordinary budget without undue si:rain.
5.15      Disbursements
Disburseme.nts (Annex 9) would be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction materil]s,
furniture, instructional equipment, printing equipment,
paper, and vehicles;
(b)  75% of total expenditures for locally procured furniture,
instructional equipment and vehicles;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for technical assistance, project evaluation and consultants'
services;
(d) 85% of tota.l expenditures for locally procured construction
materials, hired labor for construction and civil works
by contractors;
(e)  90% of total expenditures for local salaries and
operating costs of the Project Unit.



- 19 -
5.16      Disbursements for locally procured materials and labor hired by
the communes for the construction of workshops and for local salaries
and operating costs of the Project Unit would be made against certified
statements of expenditures, documentation of which would not be submitted
to the Association, but would be retained by the SFCU and would be
available for review by the Association in the course of project super-
vision. This might amount to about US$700,000 equivalent. This approach
is justified by the amount of documentation involved which, if submitted
directly to the Association, would create administrative difficulties and
might delay disbursements. Disbursement for furniture, equipment and
construction materials locally procured by the SFCU would be made against
normal documentation. Disbursement for foreign procured goods would most
probably be made directly to the supplier.
5.17      Any funds remaining on completion would be used for the construc-
tion of additional workshops or upgrading primary schools (para. 4.10) or
for project related items to be agreed by the Association. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1981. The proposed Credit Closing
Date is June 30, 1982.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  Pressure on land is intense in Rwanda, and very little
additional land is available for agricultural development. Greater produc-
tion from the existing family smallholdings is thus essential to feed the
growing population (para. 2.04). At the same time public pressure for educa-
tion has led to Rwanda having a relatively high enrollment ratio at the pri-
mary level without, however, equipping the students adequately for a productive
life on the land. The fundamental educational problem in Rwanda is therefore
to increase the productivity of those primary school leavers--the great
majority--who enter rural life (para. 2.06). To bring about this qualitative
change, practical subjects have been introduced into primary education and the
Government is considering a reform proposal (para. 3.06) which would further
expand practical subjects teaching.
6.02      The proposed project would help improve the quality of primary edu-
cation both for the system in its entirety and with respect to a first phase
of a program to introduce practical subjects geared to a rural environment.
Textbooks and students guides would be given to all primary school students,
thus improving the efficiency and quality of the system. The workshops
would permit about one-fourth of the primary student body to receive appro-
priate instruction in rurally oriented subjects, which in the long term
should lead to greater rural productivity.
6.03      These improvements and expected benefits would be made through the
medium of the SFCU; the SFCU is expected to cause benefits beyond those
usually encountered in education projects. Although the direct employment



- 20 -
creation of the project is only about 500 man-years, the technical ad,;iz-e and
assistance offered by the SFCU would improve the quality of constructionl at
the local level through on-the-job training of craftsmen and unskillecd :Labor.
The SFCU would also greatly strengthen the channels for transfer of educational
funds from the central Government to the local authorities.
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  The project would involve thi Govern-
ment in school construction for the first time; this is a development necessary
to improve the genercally low standards in primary schools and to give :he
Government in the longer term greater control of school planning and develop-
ment (para. 4.03). But the Government necessarily starts with little experi-
ence and a limited implementation capacity. The finance mechanisms envisaged
for the construction of the facilities would minimize the administrative work
in connection with disbursements but would at the same time lessen the control
over individual expenditures.
6.05      To minimize these risks the project is small.  Care has been taken
to ensure an egalitarian distribution of access to a better quality education
by the establishment of a workshop in each commune.  In addition, the coni-
struction elements are a relatively small proportion--about one fourth-.-of
total project cost and will be carefully evaluated during implementation.
If it is seen that t]he proposed implementation and finance mechanisms for the
project's civil works operate less successfully than now envisaged, they
would be revised at an early stage.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  the revision of selection/excamination procedures
for entry into secondary schools, the improvements/
repairs for existing primary schools, the provision
of technica:L assistance and criteria for the site
selection (paras. 3.08, 4.06, 4.07 and 5.07);
(b) the administ:ration of the project by the SFCU
(paras. 4.04 and 4.05);
(c)  the project's financial plan and the establishment
and functioning of a revolving fund to be administered
by the SFCU (para. 5.13).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of
the revolving fund (para. 5.13) would be a condition for Credit effective:liss.



- 21 -
7.03      Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$30,000
equivalent is recommended for operational expenses of the SFCU (para. 5.17).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million equivalent on standard
terms to the Government of Rwanda.






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General
1.        The Education Law of August 27, 1966 designates the Minister of
Education as primarily responsible for education in Rwanda, although other
Ministries conduct training programs also. The educational system is general-
ly patterned on that of Belgium and structured as follows: 6 years of pri-
mary education starting from age seven, followed by 6-7 years of secondary
education which includes technical-vocational courses at both lower and
upper secondary level, and by 3-7 year courses at post-secondary and univer-
sity level (Chart 2).
2.        The system is marked by a strong dichotomy between the primary
and secondary levels.  Generally primary schools have very poor facilities,
often consisting of a mud hut with an earth floor and very little window
space.  Desks are rare:  pupils sit on logs of wood or on large stones.
About 97% of the recurrent funds are taken up in paying teachers salaries,
and the most simple teaching aids such as books, paper and pencils are
often lacking. The first three grades have only half-day schooling.
There are over 50 students per teacher.
3.        Only 6% of primary leavers achieve a secondary school place.  Second-
ary school facilities are much better than those in primary schools; nearly
all the schools have been constructed by missionaries or by foreign aid, and
80% of the recurrent costs are met from non-government sources.  Secondary
schools are all boarding and employ a high proportion of foreign teachers:
there are less than 13 students per teacher. As a result, the secondary
school recurrent cost per student is nearly 50 times that in primary school.
Ei'm orn SdLt.
4,        The total enrollment in 1973/74 amounted to nearly 400,000, repre-
senting about 52% of the 7-12 year (inclusive) age group. Total enrollments
have remained virtually constant since 1968/69 but there has been an enroll-
nent increase of about 35,000 in grades 4 through 6, which have whole day
schooling, and a similar decrease in enrollments in the first three primary
grades which have only half-day schooling. About 45% of the pupils are
girls,
5.        The number of teachers has increased since 1968/69 from 6,400 to
7,800. The student-teacher ratio is thus 51:1 but this becomes a ratio of
35!i if account is taken of the half-day classes.  Teacher qualifications
have steadily improved: less than 20% of the teachers now have only a pri-
mary school education themselves compared with 30% in 1968/69.  Over 40% of
teachers are now fully qualified by Government's own standards. However,
a fully qualified teacher is paid more than twice as much as an unqualified



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
one, and the first priority of the Government should be to improve facili;:ies
rather than teacher qualifications. About 45% of school classrooms are made
of mud and even in the brick built schools furniture, equipment and teac h::ng
aids are often lacking. No more than 40% of schools offer the full primar7y
cyc'e.
6.        Despite considerable progress, primary education remains beset biy
many problems. It has remained essentially a preparation for secondary
education. Only a small minority (6%) of those who finish primary education,
however, can be admitted to secondary education; as a result of the growing
primary school output, opportunities for access to secondary schools are
decreasing.  For the great majority whose education is ended, the primary
system is of little relevance.
Post-Primary Education
7.        To meet the needs of those who have no access to secondary edu-
cation, a considerable number (75) of small complementary schools for gi:ls
has been created, providing practical training for about 5,000 in 3-year
post-primary courses.  A number of years ago, the Government also started
a similar form of practical training for boys through the establishment i:3f
Centres d' Education Rurale et Artisanale (CERAR); in 1972/73 there were
ten with an enrollment: of about 600. These provide useful training; al-
though enrollments have been growing steadily, it is unlikely that more
than a small fraction of the needs can be met. Post-primary education h .s
to compete with the primary system for extremely scarce resources which
will limit future grow th.
Secondary Education
8.        The structure of secondary education is shown in Chart 2.  Enrc:l:L-
ments in general secondary education have grown only slowly (24% over seven
years) while enrollments in teacher training institutions have been virtually
unchanged. Enrollments in vocational courses at lower secondary level ar,i
in technical courses at upper secondary level (induistrial, agricultural,
medical, etc.), have nearly doubled since 1965 with girls accounlting for
40% of all technical students. Over the last three years enrollments grc 1:h
has levelled off. Total 1973/74 enrollments amounted to 10,500, about 2%
of the age group.
9.        The number of secondary school teachers has increased rapidly
from 595 in 1966/67 to 834 in 1973/74, resulting in a very low, uneconom-
ical pupil--teacher ratio of 12.6:1; the share of expatriate teachers drop,ed
from 65% to 36% over the same period.  The majority of the Rwandlese teach>is,
however, are not fully qualified: two-thirds of them have not gone beyond
secondary education themselves and are qualified only as primary school
teachers. Secondary school facilities are of reasonable standards.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
10.       The present state of secondary education reflects unplanned de-
velopment in the past assisted by largely uncoordinated foreign aid schemes
over which the Government exercises little control. In 1971-72 there were
63 secondary schools with an enrollment of 10,500 students (of which 15
were "private" with 1,100 students), resulting in an uneconomically low
average school size of 167 students. Only one school has more than 500
students; several have less than 100. Many classes, particularly in tech-
nical education, enroll only seven to fifteen students. All secondary
students are boarders, and the schools are single sex. Available classroom
space is often not fully utilized because boarding facilities are limited.
With a pupil-teacher ratio of 12.6:1 enrollments could be increased without
increasing the number of staff.
11.       In the absence of a manpower survey, it is difficult to judge
whether secondary education is meeting present manpower needs. On the
strength of available data, however, one would expect serious imbalances.
Among the 16 secondary schools with technical and vocational courses ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Education, there is only one agricultural
school (at Butare) despite the predominately agricultural character of the
economy. Its student body constitutes only 7% of all students in technical
and vocational schools; however, this small enrollment may reflect the
limited actual demand for agriculturally trained personnel as distinct
from the need for them. More than half the technical students are enrolled
in courses for nurses and medical assistants, social workers and domestic
science.
12.       P                Training takes place at three levels:  (i) a 2-
year auxiliary teachers course at secondary level form 2 and 3 for those
who have failed in their first secondary year; (ii) a 2-year lower level
teachers course at form 4 and 5 and (iii) a 4-year upper level course at
forms 4 through 7. Virtually all students of the lower courses pursue a
teaching career but only half of those in the upper course. This propor-
tion is expected to improve as the more attractive administrative vacan-
cies are filled. Most upper course graduates who become teachers are em-
ployed in lower secondary schools.
13.       The primary teacher training course is given in institutions
which often offer general secondary education also. The courses are very
similar to the general secondary courses but with time being devoted to
education and to periods of teacher training. It is likely that more spe-
cialized courses of shorter duration would be more efficient and they
should be considered as a part of the review of the secondary system which
will be taking place in the next year or so.
14.       Technical and Specialized Education.  The Ministry of Education is
responsible for the operation of agricultural, industrial, commercial, medi-
cal and other technical schools, but other Ministries are also involved. Agri-
cultural education is relatively undeveloped. In addition to the agri-
cultural school mentioned in para. 11, which is training agricultural



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
assistants at upper secondary level with an enrollment of about 100 il
a 4-year course, the Ministry of Agriculture is operating an agricultiTal
extension worker school at lower level which enrolls only 40 in a 2-year
course. With eighl: schools providing medical training at five levels
(lower level nursing, diploma nurses, medical assistants, university ievel
nurses, doctors) mewdical education and training is comparatively well de-
veloped. In addition to the technical-vocational schools of the Mini.;try
of Education, the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs is operating '.oca-
tional training centers at lower secondary level.
15.       Out-of-School Education is provided by many public, semi-puLllic
and private bodies; the 1970 statistics regarding the most important tro-
grams are given below:
TABLE 1 - Student registrations
Baptism   Social    Nutritional  Literacy   Total         As %
classes   centers      centers     classes                 of
Population
Total      250,000    48,000        16,000      7,400    321,000       18
of which
7-14 years 108,000    14,000          -         2,700    124,000      26
15-20       80,000    27,000         -          3,200    110,000      20
21-40  "    62,000      8,000       16,000      1,500      88,000     10
Instructional staff
1900       660          100         85
Source: T. Hanf et al: Education and Development in Rwanda, 1974.
16.       Both the social and nutritional centers cater mainly for womei
and girls; as in the case of post-primary education, this sector offers
more opportunities for women than for men. The value of the training
given varies widely, as do the length of the courses and the participaticn
ratios. While the figures given above tend to overemphasize the actual
importance of these courses there is no doubt that out-of-school educa-
tion has an importani: place in the overall educational picture and atteiripts
to fill the gaps left: by the formal system.
Higher Education
17.       Higher education is provided in a "Grand Seminaire", which
trains for the priesthood and enrolls 24 students in philosophy and 40 in
theology, the National University (humanities, science, economics, medi-
cine, nursing and law) and the National Pedagogical Institute (training



APPENDIX I
Page 5
of teachers for the first cycle of secondary education). In addition, a
considerable number o' students are enrolled abroad.
18.       The National University was established in 1963 with Canadian
assistance and li.mited itself initially to short 3-year courses in human-
ities, science and economics which are now gradually being extended to
full degree courses.  Additional ass4stance was received from Belgium to
establish and operate a Faculty of Medicine, which now already runs a
full 7-year program, and from France for the School of Modern Languages.
In 1973-74 law studies were begun and the total enrollment amounted to
489. Only 59 women are enrolled.
19.       Medicine is the most developed sector:  enrollments in the
7-year medicine program and in the 3-year nursing course number 188 or
38% of the total number of university studentLs. Belgian aid for the
medical program was intended to meet urgent needs on a short-term basis
and is now being withdrawn. Students from the faculties of humanities
and sciences are entering the teaching profession because of limited
employment opportunities elsewhere; these faculties are therefore in
direct competition with the adjacent National Pedagogical Institute and
are likely to saturate the demand for teachers in a few years. Simi-
larly, in view of the considerable numbers of Rwandese students studying
agriculture abroad the intention to begin a new faculty of agricultural
sciences in the universitv should be very carefully considered as lower
level training at the Butare agricultural school could well meet the ef-
fective demand at less expense, at least in the coming years.
20.       The National Pedagogical Institute is located in Butare near
the University. It was established with UNDP/Unesco assistance, and
trains lower cycle secondary school teachers in a 3-year post-secondary
course. Its 1973/74 enrollment was 246 of whom 39 were women.
21.       In 1973/74 554 Rwandese students were studying abroad at uni-
versilIes and other post-secondary institutions. Among them 76 were
studying agriculture, 47 medicine, 27 veterinary medicine, 25 economics
and 25 education. Many of these students are expected to return to the
country by 1976 ard difficulties may be experienced in absorbing all of
them into the administration. The countries receiving the most students
were Belgium with 198 and the USSR with 132.
Education Finance
22.         tal expenditurs _for education under the jurisdiction of
tthe Ministry of Education are estimated for the year 1972 as follows:



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
Table 2
Recurrent     Capital      Total
(in millions Rw. F.)
Ministry of Education        677            12         689
Private Sector               123            36         159
External aid                 644            95         739
Total       1,444          143       1,587
Total expenditures are estimated to have reached 7.5% of GDP in 1972
while Ministry of Education expenditures alone are equivalent to about
3.2% of GDP.
23.       Recurrent eenditures.  Available information permits only the
analysis of the recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of Education. Ex-
penditures made by other Ministries cannot be accurately determined but
their total amount is thought to be very small. Detailed breakdown of re-
current expenditures of the Ministry of Education from 1967 to 1973 is
given in Annex 4. From 1967 to 1973 recurrent expenditures by the Ministry
of Education increased at an average rate of 11.4% p.a., but the share o::
the total government recurrent budget for education decreased slightly from
25.9% to 24.5%. Howevrer, due to a drastic increase in teacher salaries :.n
1974 (para. 3.09), the 1974 budget shows an increase of 36% over 1973 anc:L
an increase in the share of total government recurrent expenditures to 2Y.5%.
Furthermore, even this very high allocation to education only covers abol.t
half of total recurrent educational expenditures, the rest being suppliet:
mainly by foreign aid. The pattern of recurrent expenditures by level ard
type of education has been as follows.
Table 3
Percentage of Total
1967              1973
Primary Education                          69.7             65.3
Secondary General Education                19.2             14.0
and Teacher Training
Secondary Technical Education               3.9              4.1
Higher Education                            4.2             14.3
General administration                      3.0              2.3
and inspection
Total                                     100.0                -



APPENDIX 1
Page 7
These percentages mainly reflect the fact that the Government's own effort
has been concentrated on primary education, while secondary and higher edu-
cation have been paid largely by foreign aid. The Government has, however,
increasingly been requested to cover the recurrent expenditures for higher
education as may be observed in the dramatic increase from 4.2% of total in
1967 to 14.3% in 1973.
24.       The Government pays the salaries of all primary teachers and of
Rwandese secondary teachers. Teacher salaries were increased by about 30%
in the Spring of 1974 and now amount to about RF 82,000 per year for a quali-
fied primary teacher and about RF 150,000 for a secondary teacher. 97% of
recurrent expenditures on primary education are spent on salaries leaving
an annual amount of US$0.36 equivalent per pupil for school material and
US$0.16 equivalent for books.
25.       Annual recurrent expenditure per pupil in primary education has
increased from RF 720 (US$7.20 equivalent) in 1967 to RF 1,115 (US$13.40
equivalent) in 1973. No fees are levied in primary education, but the Gov-
ernment is contemplating the introduction of an annual fee of RF 100 per
pupil to be earmarked for maintenance of primary schools. Fees for secondary
education have been raised from RF 1,000 to RF 2,000 in 1974. Higher educa-
tion is free. The Government pays each university student RF 5,000 for 10
months. Thus an average student receives RF 55,000 p.a. which is about nine
times the national income per capita. It would be advisable to urgently
review this practice.
26.       Capital expenditures.  By far the largest proportion of capital
expenditures (some 65% in 1972) are supplied by foreign aid and spent on
investments in secondary and higher education. Primary schools are largely
being constructed by the communes with little financial assistance from the
Government.
External Assistance to Education
27.       Rwanda is receiving a considerable amount of external assistance,
from some 20 multilateral and bilateral donor agencies for the operation and
development of its education system. Because most foreign aid projects span
periods of more than one year, it is difficult to estimate the value of ex-
ternal assistance on an annual basis. However, it is estimated that more
money was spent on education by external aid in 1972 than by the Ministry of
Education. Most foreign aid is recurrent in nature: the cost of experts,
teachers and professors, scholarships and other operating costs. The impres-
sion is that, after a period of extensive capital investments, donors are now
more committed to keeping the institutions operational by providing staff and
meeting other recurrent expenses. Among the international agencies, UNDP/
Unesco, FED and UNICEF are the most active; among the bilateral donors Belgium,
France and Canada.



APPENDIX i
Page 8
28.       Foreign aid has made a considerable impact on the education system,
especially at the secondary and higher education levels. However, since
foreign aid schemes were largely uncoordinated and no government plan was
available to serve as a guide and to set priorities in the framework of na-
tional objectives, developments have escaped effective government control,
have outgrown available national resources to manage and operate the facili-
ties, are often unnecessarily expensive and not always geared to the country's
needs.
29.       More effective government control of the secondary and higher educa-
tion system through improved planning and coordination of all external assist-
ance schemes is now urgently needed. Through rationalization, important cost
savings could be achieved in secondary and higher education. To avoid fur-
ther proliferation of scarce resources (both local and foreign), all new pro-
jects should be carefully screened and evaluated on the basis of their economic
and financial justification.
The Proposed Education Reform
30.       Aware of the inadequacies of the present education system, the
Ministry of Education has proposed to restructure primary and secondary
education in accordance with economic and social needs.
31.       Primary ed'iLcation, for a majority of the students,  tould becoine
terminal, preparing students directly for entry into the labor force. i7c
adjust the school leaving age to the legal minimum age for employment, imnd
to reduce juvenile delinquency, the entry age for the first grade will be
raised to nine or ten years (still to be determined). Student promotioni
throughout the six-year course will be automatic and the ultimate objeclive
is to enroll 100% of the age group in this course. Instruction in the f'irst
four years will be in the local language and a gradually increasing elerLeat
of practical work (1-1/2 hours per week in the first two years, four hoairs
in the third and fourth grade) will be introduced. After the fourth grade,
following aptitude tests, 90% of the students would be admitted to a twc'-iear
terminal course with 50% of the time devoted to practical skill training :.n
agriculture, handicrafts, etc. The existing three-year post-primary courses
(CERAR, girls' complementary schools) would be compressed to two years a-c[
integrated into these terminal two-year primary courses. 10% of primary
leavers will be channelled into a two--year preparatory course for secondary
education, with intensive instruction in French, but also a remaining ellenent
of practical work (about two hours per week).
32.       It is realized that the reform of primary education would have
important effects on t:he secondary education system, and the Government is
in the first stages of considering a reform of the secondary system, whi?:h
will be geared to the country's needs for higher level manpower.



APPENDIX 1
Page 9
33.       Much excellent work has been done by the Ministry of Education in
explaining the need for educational reform, and the thinking behind the re-
form proposals. However, opposition has manifested itself to some of the
measures, in particular the proposals to raise the age of entry to primary
schools and to select for secondary education after only four years primary.
As a result, the implementation of the reform, which it was originally hoped
to begin in September 1974, has been delayed by at least a year, and the
final outcome is not yet known. This delay may be useful in some ways as
it should give the Ministry a chance to work out some of the details needed
for a successful implementation of the primary education reform and to con-
sider the implications of the primary reform on the secondary education
system, a system which itself needs rationalization (para. 32).



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
RWANDA - EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHOOL BUILDING IN RWANDA
Present Situation
1.        Existing primary schools reflect four different patterns of con-
struction standards, 1/ namely:
(a) primitive mud-huts;
(b)  schools built by some communes of burnt or mud-
brick walls covered with corrugated metal, with
finishes, windows, doors, and furniture incom-
plete and/or of insufficient standard;
(c) missionary schools made of burnt bricks with
roofing tiles over wooden trusses; and
(d) foreign-aid schools of relatively high standard,
made of concrete blocks, metal trusses and cor-
rugated asbestos cement.
Mud-hut schools and, to a lesser degree, commune schools are occasionally
being constructed by the villagers providing unskilled labor free.
2.        School furniture in many primary schools is either missing coTI-
pletely or of extremely primitive standards. Mud schools normally have
very small or no windows, and the lack of floors results in dust and di:rt.
In general, the majority of existing primary schools in Rwands provide Jle3s
than satisfactory settings for the teaching process.
3.        The average number of classrooms per primary school is four, and
the average number of class-groups per school is 5.7, ranging from 2 in nany
of the more recently established schools to 38 in some cases. Although there
do not seem to exist gross inequalities in the spread of primary schools in
the country, there is a need to rationalize the entire system of existin;,
primary school facilit:ies.
Project Workshops
4.        Cost estimates for project workshops could not be based on any of
the prevailing patterns of primary school construction since existing or
1/   See attached tables on "School Buildings by Provinces and Types of Con-
struction" and on "Building Standards of Primary Schools in Rwanda.'



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
recently constructed schools either are of too low standards (mud-huts and,
less so, commune schools), or of too high standards (foreign-aid schools),
or they depend on special conditions which cannot be multiplied as required
(missionary schools). Furthermore, reliable and documented cost data are
available only for schools which have recently been constructed by the
European Development Fund (FED).
5.        Construction standards of workshops would be between the standards
of the commune schools and those of foreign-aid schools. Accordingly, es-
timated cost for workshops (US$55 per m2) are between cost estimates for
commune schools (35-50) and foreign-aid schools (85). Construction cost
estimates of US$55/Ln2 for workshops would allow only for austere standards
of construction and are viable only if attempts to improve local materials
and construction methods and to utilize free self-help labor are successful.
Cost estimates should be considered as cost limits so as to induce serious
efforts to develop economical construction patterns suitable for all future
school buildings in Rwanda.
6.        While development work by the School Financing and Construction
Unit should not be limited in scope by prescribing detailed specifications
a priori, certain basic performance criteria would be established before
design work commences, relating to size and shape of rooms, natural lighting,
weather protection and dust control, minimum life-time of structural and non-
structural building elements, maintenance requirements, cost-in-use versus
initial investment cost, etc.
7.        Implementation of project institutions requires coordinated
efforts by the Ministry of Education, the School Financing and Construction
Ulnit, its field staff, and the communes involved, with a view to maximum use
of local materials and community participation. Implementation procedures
would be developed not merely as means of completing project workshops but
also as one of the project aims, namely strengthening of administrative and
managerial capabilities both in the Ministry of Education and on the commune
levele



TAIBLE I
HliANDA - EDUCAlTION FROJ3' CT
SCHOOL B3UILDINGS 'BY PROVIYCES AND TYPES OF CONSTRUCT ION
~~~    N~~iumboer of' Classrooms built at
1          H U)        .,7   I    D  ,O
IL~~~~~~~ -I14 -1Lqi  H, ol 
Butare        21)    KQ(y)    1 L61          831        66         68        3           l0
~~~Tilmha                                                                         - ~~178 689    '2685
4rumha                         10068~ Tu               2        V4        3 96
3. Qyangugt            1 43  931   )4)4               1 1 4       77                 3920           03
4. Gikongoro          1137        )0      10,61      287k        69       I 76      1 72     ~      4-
K   Gisenyi      ~~~~~~~~~~~194  j)  658  970   j3631      117        5076   52               68
6Gitarama            290      1127 169              729-       8          2        17)4    3    17
7. K bungoo           139        577       829       129172376                                      7
~8. Kibuye             19        603        866       211        90        21        1 74   99      603
9* Kigali            2C7        857      1271       133        65         2 6              1        7
Ruhengerli         207       836       1248       332       115                         3C      336)
I~.Universite'          8                  2112                                                    22
Radiophoni-
1OANDA            1972;     77)417    1 12 80    3291       961       627      263)4  23)4    77)47
Percent of Total                                 42.5       12.4      8.1      3)4.0  3.0    100.0
Source: Minist--y of Educat-ion



IA BLE 2
94ArrDA: OEDUCATION PA.OJECT
3tul/insv Standards of Primary Schools in Rwanda
Self-help Mud Eut              Commune School                  Missionary School             Foreign-aid  School
457, of all existing           To be found mainly in           Schools exhibiting              Primary schools finan-.
classrooms are of this         communes that are                skillful application of        ced and built by FED as
type, reflecting the           relatively wealthy and/         local materials and             part of their
GENERAL  DESCRIPTION            simple craftsmanship of         or are administered by          still being in good             "Paysanoats" projects
indigenous housing             capable burgomasters            shape after many years
invariably are mission-
ary schools
Classrooms are 10 to 15        Generally classrooms are    Appropriate in m.ust                 In general fully
feet wide, with very           of almost sufficient            respects                         appropriate, though too
small or no window open-    size and shape; windows,                                           high in respect of some
STANDARD OF ACCOMNKDA-          ings; dust floors,              doors and furniture                                             details
TION AND CONSTRUCTION           Standard of accommoda-          varyingly incomplete and/
tion does not satisfy          or of insufficient
minimum educational             standard.  Could be
requirements                    improved to satisfy
minimum requirements
Walls: adobe or sun-            Walls: burnt bricks or          Walls: burnt bricks,            Walls: concrete blocks
baked mud bricks: roof          natural ston,e in cement        occasionally sun-               plastered on both sides;
construction: unpro-           mortar; roof construc-          baked mud bricks; roof           roof construction: metal
cessed eucalyptus wood;         tion: roughly hewn              construction: wooden            trusses; roofing: corru-
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS          roofing: corrugated             wooden roof trusses;            or metal trusses;rocf-          gated asbestos cement;
metal, roof tiles or            roofing: corrugated metal;  ing: burnt roofing tiles;   windows: metal glazed;
thatch; windows and            floor: concrete                  floor: concrete                 suspended ceilings
doors: often non-
existing or primitive
Genuine community effort.   Administered and financed   Administration, financing,  Through a highly effi-
Funds for corrugated            by the communes with some   management and                      cient project office for
metal from commune budget   free labor and/or funds             supervision by (highly          the FED-financed
ADMINISTRATION                  or donated by villagers         for materials from the          motivated) expatriate           'Paysannats;" bulk-
AND                                                       villagers                       missionaries                    purchase of imported
FINANCING                                                                                                                       materials, assembly of
prefab part in own
workshop; direct hiring
of labor on the spot
Only unskilled labor is         Constructed by local           Missionaries procure             Implementation managed
required which is often         craftsmen  under the            materials and hire              by expatriates, either
provided for by villagers;  supervision of the                  skilled labor; unskilled        FED staff or volunteers,
IMPLEMENTATION (PROCURE-    construction initiated and  burgomaster                             labor provided free by          including expatriate on-
MENT, ON-SITE SUPERVISION,  supervisied byparents'                                              parishioners                    site supervision
ETC.)                          committee or councilmen
CONSTRUCTION COST PER M2        Total   : 0 - 15 US$            Total   : 35 - 50 US$           Total   : 30 - 40 US$           Total   : 85 US$
TOTAL, MATERIAL,                Material: 0 - 15 US$            Material: 25 - 40 US$           Material: 25 - 30 US$           Material: 63 US$
LABOR                           Labor    : 0                    Labor   :  5 - 15 US$           Labor   :  5 - 15 US$           Labor   : 22 US$
CONSTRUCT ION
COST PER                        0 - 500 US$                     1,500 - 2,500 Us$               1,500 - 2,000 US$               5,000 US$
CLASSROOM
EXPECTED LIFE                   Between 2 years and possi-  Between 10 and possibly             Due to careful main-            25/30 years and more, if
OF STRUCTURE;                   bly 10 years, if minimal    20 years depending on               tenance 20 years and more;  maintained properly
MAINTENANCE                     maintance is provided           degree of maintenance           roofing tiles tend to
deteriorate earlier
NET PRESENT COST PER
CLASSROOM (MAINTENANCE
27, OPPORTUNITY COST OF         600 US$                         2,680 US$                       2,210 US$                       5,800 US$
CAPITAL 12%, LIFETIME
30 YEARS)
No constraints, but             Standards and crafts-           Success depends entirely        Suitable for large-scale
because of insuffi-             manships could be im-           on motivation and skill         program but requires
cient standards of             proved.  Suitability             of individual missionary.   high input of expatriate
accommodation and cons-         of implementation               Recently, primary school    technical assistance and
truction not suitable          procedures for large-            construction through            too expensive to form
SUITABILITY AND                 for IDA school cons-            scale program  is               missionaries has been           basis for general pri-
CONSTRAINTS                     truction program                doubtful, but pro-              reduced to a trickle            mary  school construc-
cedures and standards                                           tion in Rwanda
could be adjusted to
serve as basis for
small-scale program






I ZN
EN     E.ON                           .              .      .CN.N ..
.                    .        .          .N .N                  . N       .- .       .NNNN
N    N                                                                                                                                                                   N                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  






ANNEX 2
RWANDA - EDUCATION PROJECT
Population of Working Age (15 years and more)
by Occupational Groups, 1970
of which
Male        Female       Total       Rwandese    Nom-Rwandese
Professional and
technical workers        10,300          2,000       12,300        11,800            500
Administrative,
executive and
managerial workers          500              10         510           410            100
Clerical workers            -2,000           190        2,190         2,130             60
Sales workers               5,200             462       5,660         5,210            450
Farmers, fishermen,
hunters, loggers
and related workersj!  762l000         875,000   1,637,000    1,628,500            8,500
Workers in mining &
quarrying                 2,1400          -           2,1400        2,380             18
Transport and Com-
munications workers       2,060 o                     2,060         1,860            200
Artisans and workers
in manufacturing         15)400          1,160       16,560        16,100            460
Service, sport and
recreation workers        8,000            800        8,800         8,700            100
Armed Forces                  550            -            550           540             10
Total employed            808,410        879,620   1,668,030    1,677,630           10,400
Total resident
population, aged
15 years and more                     1,755,870
So-urce: 1970 Demographic Survey
it should be recalled that, in the Demographic Survey, unpaid family workers
are considered as "employed".
October, 1974



RWANDA -  EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated RqieetanSupyoMapwrwtEdctobendPmryLe'vel
Total     Supply from
Replace-   Av. Annual   Additional    Existing
Increase    ment needs  Requirement  Requirement  Institution   Excess
1970    1975    1980    1975-80       1975-80      1975-80       1975-80     1975-80       Supply
1.  Wage Employment     49,100  67,200  92,800    25,600        6,100         6,300        31,700
2. Out of which
educated beyond
primary level       26,000  36,000 50,200    1h,200         3,200         3,500        17,400       19,500        2,100
Source:   Demographic Survey for 1970 figures, supply figures based on Ministry of Education estimates,
and forecast prepared by Bank Group staff with the following assumptions:
1. All wage employment is in secondary sector (20,000 in 1970) and tertiary sector (29,000 in 1970).
2.  Secondary sector employment increases by 6% annually and tertiary sector employment by 7% annually.
3. 30% of increase in secondary sector employment needs education beyond primary level; 70% for
tertiary sector.
h. Replacement needs are 2.5% annually of 1970 stock.
Pec-mber 197h



ANNEX 4
R W A N D A
EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments and Recurrent Expenditures of the Ministry of Education (Millions RF)
1/   .-~~~~~~~~~~..a' ~~~~~~~Annual % increase                                             Annual 7. increase
Academic Year/    FYx        Academic Year       FY       Academic Year        FY           (decrease) 1967-1971            (decrease) 1971-1973
Level of Education                       1966/67          1967         1970/71         1971          1972/73         1973      enrollments    expenditures    enrollments    expenditures
1.   Primary Education                        346,000          248.2        419,000         386.9         399,000         444.8         5.0             11.7             (2.4)            7.2
2.   Secondary Education, General Educ.
and Technical Education                    7,634           64.4          8,862          80.5           9,136          95.9         3.8              4.2              1.5             9.1
3.   Secondary Educ. - Technical Educ.             881          14.0          1,105          20.3           1,449           28.2         5.8             9.8             14.5            17.9
4.   Higher Education                              257          14.8             700         66.5             847           97.2        28.5            45.6             10.0            20.9
5.   General Administration
and Inspection                                            10.7                         23.8                          15.9                         22.1                            (18.0)
6.   Total Recurrent Expenditures,
Ministry of Education                                    356.1                        578.0                         682.0                         12.9                              8.6
7.   Total Recurrent Public
Expenditures                                           1,375.0                      2,173.0                       2,784.1                         12.1                             13.2
8.   6 As Percentage of 7                                        25.9                        26.6                                      24.5
9.   GDP at Factor Cost                                     15,220                       20,850                        22,600                            8.2                              4.1
10.   6 As Percentage of 9                                         2.3                          2.8                           3.0
1/   September - July
2/   January 1 - December 31
3/   Staff estimate
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, and Bank Group staff estimates.
October 1974



RWANDA - EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND OF PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT, 1977 - 1985
ALTERNATIVE 1                                  ALTERNATIVE 2
1973           1974           1977          1981            1985           1977           1981            1985
Actual         Budget
1.   Total recurrent public                                                                      I
expenditures 1/
(Millions RF)                            2,784.1        3,160          3,630          4,410           5,370          3,970          5,380            7,290
2.   Total expenditures,
Ministry of Education
(Millions RF)                              682.0          930          1,020          1,150          1,390           1,110          1,500            2,040
3.   Expenditures on primary
education (Millions RF)                    444.8          595            645            720             880            725             980           1,330
4.   Expenditures on primary
teachers' salaries
(Millions RF)                             428.7           580            620            690             835            680            880            1,200
5.   Average teacher salary (RF)              55,124         74,0002/       76,000          79,000         80,500         88,500          88,000          95,000
6.   Number of primary teachers                7,777          7,900          8,150           8,750         10,400          8,450          10,000         12,600
7.   Pupil-teacher ratio                          51.1         51.02/            50.0           47.5           45.0            50.0           47.5
8.   Enrollment, primary                                            2/
education                             398,000        402,000         408,000        417,0t0        467,000         422,000        475,000         567,000
1/ Regular budget
2/ Bank Group staff estimates
SOURCE:  1973 - 1974  See Annex 4
1977 - 1985 Forecasts prepared by Bank Group staff with the following assumptions:
Alternative 1                   Alternative  2
(a)   Rate of growth of total public expenditures                      5X annual                           7.9% annual
(b)   Expenditures of Ministry of Education as %                     -1  h.--1    -l-  2I t2   _ al .......-  (28%)
1981.   ~~~~           constant at the 1973 level (65.2%)
tfl n., pfi-,y ~u.aLion as k ot                      to be reduced to 63% by                                                      >
total expenditures of Ministry of Education             1978, then constant             to be reduced to 90% by 1981, thena
(d)   Expenditures on salaries as % of expenditures           to be reduced to 95% by           constant                                    x
on primary education                                    1977, then constant             3% annual till 1978, then 2% annual         I"
(e)   Increase in average teacher salary                       -   ,, iease every tourth
year



RWANDA
EDUCATION PROJECT
Two alternative projections of primary teacher requirements for the period 1973-1985
1973        1985              Teacher  needs         Total needs      Total 3       Total        Annual
Alternative I -  low'              Actual      Projected     Expanslon       SE lacement    1973-1985     S             deficit       deficit
Primary enrollment                398,000       467,000
Pupil/teacher ratio                 51.1          45
Teachers                            7,777        10,400        2,603         4,300           6,900         6,850           50             4
/2
6,500"-        9,100         6,850        2,250           190
Alternative II - high'
Primary enrollment                398,000      567,000
Pupil/teacher ratio                 51.1          45
Teachers                            7,777        12,600         4,800        4,800-          9,60t         6,850        2,750           230
/2
7,300"-       12,100         6,850        5,250           440
/1     Assuming 2% p.a. loss rate.
/2     Assuming 3% p.a. loss rate.
/3     Based on output from existing institutions with no reform of secondary education structure.
Source:   Bank Group staff calculation based on alternative enrollment projections in Annex 5.
October 1974



ANNEX 7
RWANDA
EDUCATION PROJECT
Susmarv of Estimated Project Cost ('000 USj
Cost of Building_s___           _                   Cost of   Physical
Total Cost                 Equipment   Facil-
Project Itemi                             Cross        Site                     of Build-                  (including   ities                     Project   Project           Estimated Total
Ar,a      Develop-    Coastruc-  ings & Site   Cost of            paper       Total       'I'echnical  Evalu-   Adminis-          Cost
No,           Name                  _                            m_,t          tion      Development Furniture                     Cost       Assistance  ation         ration    (t1$  000)    Ra ('000)
A. Norkahops (150)
Area/unit - 176 m2 gross                                                                        ____
Equipment cost/unit $2,500                    26.400    Self-hep__  1420.0            1.420.0        375.0        375.0    2,170.0            -        _             -           2,170.0      195,300.0
Furniture cost/unit $2,500
B.  Printshop
(i)   Physical facilities                         846        15.0         150.0         165,0          5.0        300.0       470.0           -           -          -
(ii)  Paper supplies                              -          -            -                    -           -    1.000.0    1,000.0            -                      -
Sub total   846         15.0          150.0         165.0         5.0      1,300.0    1.470.0                        -          -           1,470.0       132,300.0
C.  Technical Assistance
8 technicians x 4 yrs = 32 man-years
Arch. and Proc. Specialist
- 10 man-years
Printing Specialist   e  2 man-years
Total    = 44 man-years                                                                                                       960.0         -          -             960.0       86.400,0
D.  Project Evaluation
4 man-years                                       -          -          _               -              -           -             -             -        200.0        -             200.0       18.000,0
E.  Project Administration
(i)   Office building, furniture
and equipment                            170        -             -            -              -           -             -             -           -          45.0
(ii)  Vehicles                                                                                                                                                      100.0
(iii) Local salaries, operational
expenses and architectural
services                                                                                                                                                   255.0
Sub total   -           -             -             -             -            -                                                400.0         400.0        36,000.0
BeVe ProJect Total Before Contingencies
(Sub total A - E)            2416           15,0        1,570.0    1I585-0          380.0      1.675.0    3,640,0           960.0      200.0       400.0        5,200.0      468,000.0
Contingencies
(a)   Unforeseen events                                                                363.3         19.0         102.5       484.8          48.0       10.0         20.0         562.8        50,652.0
(b)   Estimated price increases                             l, ,         ,7                                     4OJ.z                                               189.0       3,24.3 _291807.0
-,  -_-          -             -          1~~~~~~~~~-- 95  0-  198.5
rPT-1 C-1tfnze^^r-_   I-                                                               95LX  _   ___1.950_.0   198.5  902.4    3,050.9     451.2       94.0        209.0       3 805.1 __342 4590
Project Total                                                                       3,535.0        578.5      2,577.4    6,690.9         1,411.2      294.0        609.0       9,005.1       810,459.0
Ap,sl 1975



WANDA EDUCATION PROJECT
PROECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First Year          Second  Year           Third Year           Fourth  Year           Fifth Year            Sixth Year
Quarter:    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
1.  Civil works                                         SSS  PPP  PPP  PPP  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC  CCC
2.  Furniture                                                           PPP  TTT  TTT  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DD   ODD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
3.  Instructional equiprment                                                  TTT  TTT  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD  ODD  DDD  DDD  ODD  DDD  DOD  ODD  DOD  DOD  ODD  DDD
4.  Textbooks                                                TTT  TTT  DDD  DDD  DDD
5.  Printing equipment and paper                             TTT  DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD                                DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
6.  Vehicles for inspectors and                              TTT  DDD  DDD  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd  ddd
operational expenses
7.  Technical assistance                                eee  eee  WUU  uUW  UUU  IJUU   UUU  UUU  UUU  UUU  U WU  DuD UD  Duut  DUD U      UD Wu   DuD  DuD UUU
FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FFF  FF1  FFF  FFF
8.  Project administration                   eee  eee  eee  eee  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  MAA  A    AM  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA
9.  Project evaluation                                                        EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEL  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE  EEE EEE  EEE  EEE
1/  Date of effectiveness
LEGEND: e   Establishment of Unit                                                                  D  Deliver and installation/distribuLtion
s   Survey of Primary School Buildings to which workshops will be attached                d  OperatiuLal expense.
P   Development of Prototype Designs and Specifications for workshops and                 U  Technicai assistance for Unit
design for SFCU and printshop building                                                F  Unit Field Staff (volunteers)
C   Construction of Project Institutions with concurrent evaluation                       A  Project administration
T   Tendering and contract award                                                          E  Project evaluation
Source: Bank Group staff estimates.
April 1975



ANNEX 9
RWANDA EDUCATION PROJECT
Forecast of Disbursements
US$ OOO's
Total
Quarterly            Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter            Disbursements         Disbursements              Balance
1                      0                     0                    8,000
2                      5                     5                    7,995
3                     80                    85                    7,915
4                    150                   235                    7,765
5                    470                   705                    7,295
6                    500                 1,205                    6,795
7                   570                  1,775                    6,225i
8                    675                 2,450                    5,550
9                    380                 2,830                    5,170
10                   1430                 3,260 64714()
11                    370                 3,630                    4,370
12                    290                 3,920                    4,080
13                    390                 4,310                    3,690
14                    510                 4,820                    3,180
1i                  .480                  5,300                    2,700
16                    320                 5,620                    2,380
17                    440                 6,o60                    1,940
18                    510                 6,570                    1,430
19                    420                 6,990                    1,010)
20                    320                 7,310                      690
21                    340                 7,650                      350
22                    290                 7,940                        6C)
23                     30                 7,970                       30
24                     10                 7,980                       20
25                     10                 7,990                       10
26                     10                 8,000                       -
j   Starting from the date of effectiveness
April 1975



RWANDA - EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS 1973/1974
ENROLLMENT AS %
GRADE(S)                                                                                                                                        OF AGE GROUP
17-19   ]UNIVERSITY                                                     60            1                                                                ]0.04
16      -10                                                                          13_
UNIVERSITY AND                                                           2603
15         POST-SECONDARY                                               1            26                                                                    0.37
14                                                                     337           58 
13  VII                                   BOYS                         282          119                           GIRLS
12  VI                                                                 606          186
11                                                                     927          432
SECONDARY                                                   2                                                                                 149
10  IV                                                                1060          50]
9    III                                                               1050         613
8   11                                                                1390          792                                                                    2.1
7   i                                                                 1650  L       917
PRIMARY
6 
6                            1  -  -- ,9 t  ~~~~~~24,800       --1s-;,400- 
5                                        1      -- *        27,400                        21,200:        - 
4                                                           34
2~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
40,600                ~~~~~34,30
2                                                          56,00                          4870
50,000       40,000        30,000       20,000        10,000           0          10,000        20,000        30,000        40,000        50,000
Sources: Ministry of Education statistics and adjusted 1970 census figures.                                                                   World Bank-9142
1! This percentage becomes 63 if calculations are based on U.N. population figures.



RWANDA
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1973174
AND PROPOSED REFORMED PRIMARY STRUCTURE
Age  7       8       9      10        11      12                  13           14      15      16       17      18      19                    19       20      21
3/
Classical Humanities -
Pri ma ry Education                                          Modern H u man2 ities                                                       UnTiversmity
Orientation Cycien4V Upper Cycle a
Primary Teacher Training                          7 /e claryT                   r Toeimina
Primary Education Under Proposed Reform                            1/                                         <-tu                                             ts
:   _  5  _  6  _   _  W                 5/                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Upper Normal                   Pedagogic Institute
{-                    _    _ ~~              ~          ~~~2/  _  FT    3]
{i  Hi]                        ~~~~~~~~Auxiliary Normal   Lowver Normal                     NOTES:
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1/ Secondary preparatory course (to% of students1 stres-
Vocatios lal, Technical and                       0 ~~~~~21 Termninal primary course (90% of students) stressing
Agricultua                                                             I I  I  practical subjects
Age  9      10      1 1    12         13     14                                             _                                               :2 3 Grades numbered according to Rvvandese system
Atiaa               Vo-cational and Agricultural           4/ Also referred to as "common trunk"
Or  10      11     12      13         14     15                        :        tsaa                   {                                   / Entrance after failureh in fijrsatyar  of forietaion acyclped
the whole structuire of the secondary system will be
Technical and Agricuiltural               reviewed
.  / Teachers from this course are mainly employed in the
_ C + }   <        1         <         1first cycle secondary schools
Technical____________________________________________________________      *     Examination/Selection   Test
6/ Housecraft Training lgirlsi  )
o Li 1   I
Agricultural & Artisanal Training (boys)                                                                    World Bank-9143



RWANDA - STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 1974
AA,S~~~~~~~OR  EDUCATION  ROUCARIOPS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~N I
E71!






I BRD 11275 R
30      ~~~To  bho....    a mpIoi                   MAY 1975
RWANDA
EDUCATION PROJECT                                           u G A N D A                                  koitomb
Kabote             .TANZANIA
EOMMUNE EUINDARIES               REPUBLIC OF                                                  0NyagatoJ 1 
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                               /      7
MA~N ROAM                           ZIR
INTERN/\TfONAL ROLJNDARf-S
........ \..
Bymboi                      NATIONAL
1 A F R i C h  <,  X   ff |   Co                       <,    gf - ,;: . z ~~~~~~~~~~~~- {   ~~  4 (9I<ayonza  '-- ............  2 I~~PA R r
AFRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iey
L~ ~~~~  jAURNE                                                                   KILSETE V5
X y aF l/Cj \@ VfX ti vv G E h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  <Y30i7^ 4 sw0 50 60  70   8
FREPBI C OF
IT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
2'                    n   a5               ''kka,aa 5v th, '2  a
WC<zy-<  ii d<> vz>><ank 5   /   !   t b 0ande 5' t Aiakn
_x/Lf X   S\rSwAC!re<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arm
i.- '_t,,rty<''>_., l \ ' ; Butare8J | 0\ 8; U R U N D I 0 \ ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    1b un-
gorQmtJ   \ \    \      <     :         Jt))        2  \\   t      :    E          /   y       t ::      : 
><  0  &;   X    / t ;Ka    1;   t) [O *o 310 40 50 i  7rD 80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ;
REPU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WhbLCO    RUND :        i  :0\r it5;i;i40 i
nreboltztls  sh>Unon  Al mp d  hI   * AN G
<t5xty exsdxBhestn  or 0c.lpttlee bv  the   29e     gx  CGikrn 3rJ
W rldBatk sildlta sII~~~~~~~~Z{ee;   t  \   9  !   a e   Q  M<   I  n n   ' ~ ~    ~     ~     Z    N    I  



