Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-,A/V  3 6 TA-1
Re_t No. P-5554-JM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11.5 MILLION
TO JAMAICA
FOR A
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1991
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may $i used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial dtes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wrld Bank autborzatin



CUSRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Jamaican Dollar (JS)
US$1.00 - J$8.10
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARP       Government Administrative Reform Programme Office,
Prime Minister's Office
ARP I     Administration Reform Project
ASC       Administrative Staff College
EEC       Commission of the European Communities
FAAA      Financial Administration and Auditing Act
FACT      Financial and Accounting College of Training
PPM       Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
FSL       Fiscal Services Limited
HRMIS     Human Resources Management Information System
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IMCAR     Interr.lnisterial Committee for the Administrative Reform
MOF       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPS       Ministry of Public Service
NCC       National Computer Centre
OPM       Office of the Prime Minister
PAMCO     Project Analysis Monitoring Company
PIOJ      Planning Institute of Jamaica
PMT       Professional, Managerial, Technical Personnel
PSC       Public Service Commission
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OmCL USE ONLY
JAMaICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAEBME3T IMPROVYRENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summarv
Borrowors                Jamaica
vzxecuting Aoenoies:     Office of the Prime Minister, Ministries of Finance
and Public Services
Deneficiaries:           Government Ministries and Statutory Bodies
Amounts                  US$11.5 million equivalent
Temms$                   Payable in 17 years, including a grace period of
five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
onlend-ino Termss        Not applicable
Financino Plan:                                   US$ millions
Government                    4.1
IBRD                         11.5
TOTAL                        15.6
Economic Rate gf Returns Not applicable
Staff Annraisal Renorts  Not applicable
Has                     IBRD 20846
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recip enits onl. in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wittout W-Ad Bank authorization.



MEMORNDuMJ AND RICOSNDA2ION OF TM3 PRBUKD3NT
INT3RMATIONAL MANS FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVULOPHUNg
TO THE IIICUxIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PRoPosaD LOAN TO JAMAIcA
FOR A FININCIIL MND PROGRAM NAaMeAf    MP ROVEMeN  PROJECT
1.                The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica of US$11.5 million equivalent is submitted for approval. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, and would finance a FinanciUl and Program
Management Improvement Project.
2.          Backpound.  The public sector in Jamaica includes some 18
ministries and over 300 statutory bodies and public enterprises. The Central
Administration employs more than 70,000 people or about 7% of the labor force.
Although complete data are lacking due to an inadequate information system,
the number of civil servants has decreased over the past five years. The
quality of the services provided by the administration to the public has
deteriorated significantly in recent years. This deterioration was caused by
a massive drain of competent professionals from the administration which, in
turn, arose in large part because of the Government's lnability to maintain
salaries at levels competitive with a growing private sector or with
opportunities in neighboring countries, particularly the United States. Civil
servant salaries have declined in real terms since 1985. In addition,
overcentralized structures, outdated systems and cumbersome procedures have
slowed down decision-making and program implementation, discouraging
initiative and demoralizing staff. This has affected, inter aIV, the
management of public finance including the ability to allocate, utilize and
monitor resources in an efficient and timely manner.    owever, the Jamaican
Administration has some strong points. Partly because of the existence of a
strong civil service union, appointments are not linked directly to changes in
the political leadership. Consequently, the managerial and professional staff
are retained when governments change office. Thus, staff have experience, if
not formal training, and institutional memory.                          1
3.          In May 1984, the Bank approved a US$4.S  million loan for a Public
Administration Reform Project (ARP 2).  Its main objectives were to strengthen
financial management and human resource management systems by: (i)
restructuring the Ministries of Finance, Development, and Planning (MOP),
Public Service (MPS) and the Public Service Commission (PSC)l (Li) introducing
a performance budgeting system in all t;as departments of the Central
Government; (iii) introducing a new job classification system; and (iv)
restructuring selected line ministries. The introduction of performance
budgeting required that: (i) the objectives and tasks of each administrative
unit be clearly defined in terms of programs/activities/projects; (li) each
unit be assigned clear responsibilities and provided with the authority to
manage financial resources to carry them out; and (iii) the services of each
unit be measured in term of "physical end products." Project implementation
suffered from a lack of consistent political commitment on the part of the
Government, from insufficient participation by the managers and staff of the
departments concerned, and from technical problems in the design of the
project. In addition, it failed to develop clear program classLfications and
to address overcentralization of financial resource management. The new job



- 2 -
classification system did not contain criteria for job grading. Finally,
expected improvements in the organization of the MPS, the PSC and the line
ministries did not take place. The structure of the MOF, however, did
improve.
4.          The new Government has decided to renew its attempts to strengthen
the management and operation of the Central Administration through: (i)
adjustmant of its administrative structurel (ii) review and reform of systems
and procedures; and (iii) introduction of measures to attract and retain
qualified managers and staff. Toward this end, the Government has prepared a
draft Policy Statement on Administrative Reform spelling out the measures it
will take to achieve these objectives and their timing (Annex 11). it has
requested the Bank to support part of the reform planned in thie Statement.
Thus, the proposed project would focus on the central administration and
provide assistance to strengthen its structure, systems and procedures.
5.          Rationale for Bank lnvolyemnt.  One of the major objectives of
the Bank's strategy in Jamaica is to promote public sector efficiency through
rationalization and improvements in operational effectiveness. Among the
external agencies assisting Jamaica, the Bank is well placed to provide
support in this area. It has supported the Government's efforts to reduce the
size of the public sector through privatization of large public enterprises
and a redundancy program for the Central Administration under two SALs and a
Public Enterprises Adjustment Loan. The Bank has also gained experience from
the disappointing ARP I. Looking beyond the proposed project, efforts in this
area include a planned Energy Sector Project, Enterprise Reform and Private
Sector Development Project, and Transport Sector Project, which would address
rationalization of the remaining large and medium public enterprises, and
statutory bodies.
6.          Proiect Obiectives. The objective of the proposed pro4ect is to
support the efforts of the Government to improve the efficiency of financial
and human resources management in the Central Administration, incorporating
the lessons learned under ARP I (see para. 11 below and Annex I paras. 11, 13-
14, 16, 40-41). Better management efficiency will be pursued through the
development and implementation of a budgetary system based cn improved program
classification, alignment of accounting and cash management systems to the
budget model, training and adjustments in administrative structures, as well
as measures to attract and retain good managers and modernize information
technology.
7.          Proiect Deghription. The proposed project will provide long- and
short-term foreign and ocal consultancies, computer hardware and software,
office supplies, vehicles, and training of local staff in support of four
components. Under the Financial Management Comoonent (US$1.6 million), the
project will assist the Government to revise the budget model according to
program classification, and adapt the present accounting, cash management and
financial reporting systenu to the revised budget model.  Under the Prooram
manaugemnot 2gm2n nt (US$1.8 million), it will introduce in eight selected
ministries (MOr, MPS, construction, Education, Health, Agriculture, Industry,
Production and Commerce, and Information and Culture), and in statutory bodies
critical to the functioning of those ministries, a corporate planning
methodology that will assist managers to define the institutions' objectives



and priorities, identify relevant programs, rationalize the relationship
between the ministries and key statutory bodies, and monitor the progress of
program implementation. It will help each miniscry to adapt organizational
structures to the requirements of the corporate plan and to implement the
plan. Finally, it will support the Government's efforts to improve the
efficiency uithin key government agencies, of over-the counter services to the
general public. The corporate planning exercise in the ministries of
Construction, Education, Health, and Industry, Production and Commerce will be
carried out within the policy context established by the Bank-supported Road
infrastructure Planning project (signed on December 12, 1990), Social Sector
Development project (signed on August 8, 1989), and Trade and Finance Sector
Adjustment IT project (signed on March 22, 1991). The implementation of the
corporate plan for the MPS will also include the adjustment of the job-
classification system. In the remaining ministries, the component initially
will involve defining their missions, identifying relevant strategies, and
establishing information systems. If the results of the corporate planning
exercise in the selected ministries are successful (based on a review to take
place from time to time), a program of action for implementing corporate
planning in additional ministries will be prepared and adopted. The proposed
project will also assist the Government to formulate and implement a program
to attract and retain qualified professional, managerial, and technical staff.
This program will involve measures to decentralize personnel recruitment
procedures and to prepare and implement new salary scales for the
professional, managerial, and technical staff linked to the implementation of
new classifications and restructuring of ministries.  Under the Ooputer
Component (US$5.8 million), the proposed project will set up a Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) to support the budgeting, accounting and
cash management processes in the MOr, the MPS and selected line ministries
(e.g., Agriculture, Education, Health and Construction). A Human Resources
Management Information System (HRMIS) will also be introduced in the MPS and
in selected line ministries. A Trainina Comnonent (US$0.8 million) will
provide courses in corporate planning, program budgeting, accounting and
computer skills. Training will be carried out in those ministries where the
changes are being introduced, as well as in the Administrative Staff College
and Financial and Accounting Training College. For the Reform Manaoeen
comoonent (US$5.6 million) a comprehensive structure has been set up under the
Prime Minister's Office and staffed to provide the Administration with the
capacity to prepare and implement the reforms including those supported by the
project. The key local managers and international experts have already been
recruited and found appropriate for their designated tasks (see paras. 40-41,
Annex I).
S.          Proiect Cost.  The total cost of the project, including project
administration and contingencies, is currently estimated at US$S15.6 million,
of which the local cost is US$6.2 million. The US$11.5 million loan would
finance 74% of total cost, 100% of the foreign cost and 35% of the local cost.
A summary of cost estimates and methods of procurement and disbursements is
provided in Schedules A and B. A timetable of key project processing events
and the status of Bank Group operations in Jamaica is given in Schedules C and
D, respectively. A map of Jamaica is attached. Since there is no Staff
Appraisal Report, the detailed project description, and the project
administration arrangements are given in Annex I. The Government Policy
Statement on the Administrative Reform is in Annex Il.



- 4 -
9.          Acreed Actions.  The Government has agreed to:  (a) recruit by
October 1, 1991, the balance of managers and staff as well as foreign and
local consultants who are needed to assure the timely implementation of agreed
work programs; (b) implement the work programs for the financial management,
program management, computer and training components according to the
timetables indicated in Schedule A, Technical Annex I, and as may be amended
from time to time as agreed between the Government and the Sank; (c) adjust
the post classifications and accompanying salary scales for the professional,
managerial and technical group for each selected ministry no later than
December 31, 1991 and July 31, 1991 respectively; (d) implement the new
classifications and their compensation package only in those ministries that
have initiated the implementation of their corporate plan and completed the
organizational reforms required under the plan; (e) employ staff who would
serve as project managers and coordinators with qualifications acceptable to
she Bank; (f) rationalize those statutory bodies which have been reviewed
under the corporate planning exercise bys (i) removing the unneceseary overlap
of activities; (ii) establishing an accountable management structure;
(iii) introducing a management information system; (iv) improving operational
efficiency; and (v) introducing cost recovery principles for those statutory
bodies engaged in commercial activities; (g) by June 1993 carry out a
comprehensive mid-term review on the basis of agreed performance criteria and
implement the recommendations of the review according to an agreed timetable.
10.         Project Benefits.  The Government would have the capability to
prepare informative, realistic and timely budgets that reflect available
resources and national priorities. The new accounting system would make
available accurate and complete data in a timely manner. The project would
also provide selected ministries with a methodology to manage programs and
projects much more efficiently than is currently possible. Selective
computerization would facilitate the management of the very large amount of
data related to Government finance and personnel in the core and line
ministries, which in turn would help in providing the managers with the
information required for effective decision making. Taken together, these
changes would enable the Government to make more effective use of scarce
resources and thus to obtain greater benefits from a given volume of
expenditures.
11.         Project Bisks.  The project's risks are similar to those of other
free standing technical assistance projects. Its success would depend on: (a)
the level and consistency of the Government's commitment to reform; (b) the
securing of appropriate experts; (c) the institutional capacity of the
administration to make changes; and (d) the quality of the Bank's supervision.
In the course of project preparation, the Government has so far demonstrated a
strong level of commitment. Moreover, under the program management
components, those ministries that have specifically requested the corporate
planning methodology have been selected to participate. Additionally, the
early recruitment of key experts and establishment of the reform management
structure should help ensure that the project gets off to a sound and timely
start. This will be complemented by a project launch seminar. Finally,
agreement has been reached with the IMF for its Fiscal Affairs Department to
provide the Bank with assistance to supervise the financial management
component.



- 5 -
12.         ReggMndatign.  I am satisfied that the propoeed loan would
comply with the Articles of the Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 10, 1991



-6-
5CNEDULE A
JAMAICA                              Pg  1 oi2
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAaEMENT IIPROVEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS
Local          Foroign          Total
Estimated Costs                                           ---------       ----------      ------------
----------- ~~~~~~~USS                                        U S              US,
(a) Reform Mnagement In the OPM
1. Long-Trm Consultants - 88 man-months                250,000                           250,0
2. Short Term Consultants - 12 man-morths                              180,000           180,090
Subtotal                                     260,009         180,000           480,009
(b) Financial Managemnt
1. Long-term Financial Experts -
consultant services - 108 man-months                             1,08,00           1,080,000
2. Short-term Consultants - 12 man-months                              180,000           180,000
8. Local Consultants (Reform Coll) -
884 man-months                                     800,000                           600,000
4. Progrom Implmentatlon Costa                         420,000                           420,000
Subtotal                                   1,029,000        1,2U,000         2,280,000
(c) Progrom Management
1. Lead Senior Consultant on Retainer
Contract - 82 man-months                                           480,000           480,m00
2. Long-Trm Consultant Services -
9U man-months                                      200,000         400,0W            6800,90
8. Short-Term Consultants - 40 man-months
(including consultant for over-the-
counter services)                                                  590,000           5690,00
4. Reform Cell (UPS)                                   200,000                           200,090
S. Program Implemntatlon Costa                         150,090                           750,000
Subtotal                                    1,150,         1,470,00          2020,M00
(d) Computerization
1. Consultant services (Senior level
experts) - 1W0 man-months                                        1,5600,00         1,60,00
2. Consultant Services (Programmers
and Analyst*) - 192 .an-monthe                                   1,600,000         1,00,009
8. Program Manager, Local Programmes
and Analysists and Local Training
Experts - 884 man-months                          1,000,000                        I,'soe,m
4. Computer hardware and software
and Installation                                    85,000       2,100,000         2,186,900
Subtotal                                    1,085,000      6,200,n0          6,285,900



8OIULE A
Pag 2 ot 2
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAEM4ENT liPROVEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS
Local         Foreign           Total
Estimasted CostU ---
(e) Tralning
1. Consultant Servie s (Financial Management
Training) - 24 man-monthe                                         8$",0o0             50,009
1. Local training s*rvices (Ooneral Manage-
ment Training) - 60 man-months                     200,90                            240,400
S. Equipment                                                            60,0e             50,800
4. Program Implementation Costs                        409,00                            400,000
Subtotol                                     600,d0          410,900         1,810,000
(f) Project Organization
1. ARP Secretariat                                   1,680,'0                          1,60,0W0
2. EquIpment                                                            80,980            so,o00
Subtotaa                                   160O,O0           s8,000         1,680,100
(g) Una I located                                           00,000          866,08          1,465,08
Subtotal                                     600,000         W68,00          1,486,006
GRAND TOTAL  1/                            6,155,00        9,415,080        16,S0,00
Financing Plan
Local         Foreign           Total
(US# aillin)
Covornment                                            4.1                               4.1
IERD                                                  2.1             9.4              11.6
1/ Price contengences of 8.4% per annum Includd.



-8-
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAQEUENT IMPROVEMENT PRUJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS I 11ion)
Project Elment                        ICe        OTHER           NA           Total
1. Consultant Services                                         9.27                         9.27
(9.07)                      (9.07)
2. Computers (including Installation)             2.30         0.18                          2.43
(2.80)      (0.18)                        (L.43)
8. Operating Flnsnce for ProJoct                                           8.87             8.87
Managment                                                            (--)             (--)
TOTAL                                  2.80        9.40          8.87           15.67
(2.80)      (9.20)        (--)          (11.50)
Note: Figures In parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



9-
SCHEOULE B
P.9. 2 of 2
JAMAICA
FINAUC!AL AND PROORAM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Di burements
(US$ mtillon)
Allocatlon of Loan Proceeds
Cateoory                                Amount                   Perceontage
1. Consultants Services
A.  Foreign oxprts                                     6.37                     100k
B.  Local experts                                      2.05                     190k
2.  Equlpment and Xnstallatlon                             2.22                     100U
S. Unallocated                                             0.88                     lOaX
Total                                                11.60
Estimated IWRO Disbureements
(USS million)
FISCAL %TARS /1
1992    1"8    1904    1095    100      1997
Annual                                              1.6    3.1      3.0     2.6     0.6     O.5
Cumuletive                                          1.0     4.7     7.7    10.2   11.0   11.5
/1  July 1 - June Be



- 10 -
fighedul-e-C
FInNCIAL AND PROGRaMA3N           M      UT  PRJCT
Timeable of Key Prqsg Events
(a)  Time Taken to Preres               One and one half years
(b) Prepared bys                        Bank/IMF/Governmnt
(c) First Back Missions                 July 1988
(d) Appraisal Kission                   November 1990
(e)  Negotiatiost                       may 1991
(f)  Planned Date of Uifeotivenesst     September 1991
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs and PPAZa:  TAL I - PCR - June 30, 1989



- 11 -                                        SCHEDULE 0
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Sank Loans as of March 81, 1991
…------------------ --------------------                                      -------US  Million-------
Amount
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   (Lese Cnceletlotion)
No.         Yar   Borrower       Purpos"                                          Bank          Undisbursed
40 LoZno fully disbursed 1/                                                      716.0
of which SECALe, SAL. and Program Loans 2/
2106-JM   1982    Jamaica       Structural Adjustment I                          76.2
2815-JM   1988    iasmace       Structural Adjustment It                         60.2
2478-JU   1985   Jama ca        Structural Adj ustent III                        65.0
2848-JM   1987    Jamaica       Trade and Finance Sector Adjustment              40.0
2849-JM   1987    Jamaice       Pubilc Enterprise Sector Adjustment              20.0
3174-JM   1909   Jamaica        Agriculture Sector Adjustment                    2.60
Subtotal            276.4
2107-JM   1982    Jamaica       Kingston Export Free Zo0o                        0.6                1.0
2389-JI   1984    Jamaica       Urban Transport                                 16.0               6.0
2422-JM   1984    Jamaica      Water Supply and Sewerage T.A. Rehabtlitation     9.0                2.8
2507-JM   1985    Jamaica       Second Technical Assistance Loan                 9.0                1.2
2850-JMt  1987    Jamaica       Sugar Rehablittatton                             84.0              10.0
2851-JM   1987    JamaIca       Population and Health                            10.0               8.4
2869-JM   1987    Jamaica       Fourth Power                                     16.0               9.9
2899-4J1   1986   Jaalca       Education                                         0.8               2.4
3982-J4   1989    Jameica       Clarendon Alumina Production                     15.0              11.6
8111-JM   190    Jamica         Social Sector Development                        20.0              27.7
8275-J11  1990    Jamica       Road Infrastructure Planning                     8S.0               82.7
U803-JII  1991    Jamatc         Trade and Finance Secor Adjuetent U1             80.0              15.0
Total (net of cancellations)                         940.8
of which hoc been paid                               296.2
Total now outstanding                               065.6
Amount Sold                                   1.6
of which has been repaid                    1.6     0.0
Total Now Hold by Bank                               665.6
Total Undisburoed                                                      12S.7
1/  Including a telecoimunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone Comny
and the Third Export Dovelopmnt fund loan made In 198  subsequently cancelled.
2/ Approved during or after FY60.
B. Statment of IFC Investments as of March 81, 991
- -------S8 M-l-liton------
Investment Fiscal                                  Type of
Numbr      Year   Borrower                         Business                      Loan    Equity    Total
088     1061    Jamaica Pro-Mix Ltd.            Cement A Conetr. Materials      0.2      -        0.2
18B     1909   Peasuos  Hotels of Jamaica       Tourism                         2.2      0.7      2.9
542     1981    West Indies lass Comny          Class Containers                2.8      -        2.3
598     1982    Jtamca Flour Mills Limited      Food end Food Processing        5.0      -        5.0
616     1985    The Falcon Fund                 Guarantee Facility              2.6      -        2.5
61C     1986    Eastern Banana Estates  1/      Food and Food Procesing         8.7      0.4      4.1
907     1986    St. Mary's Banana Estates Ltd.  Food and Food Processing        8.7      0.9      4.6
1129     1980    Eagle Merchant Bank             Comnerial Sank                  5.0      -        5.0
1180     1989    Jamaic  Cltizens Sank           Co_arcial Bank                  6.0      -        C.0
1181     1989   Mutual Security Bank             Commerceal lank                 5.60     -         .0
Total Gross Comitments                                         84.6      2.0    88.6
Loe Cancellations, Torminattons, Partiecpations
Sales and Repayments                                        16.0      1.1    16.1
Total coiitments not held by IFC                                       16.0      0.9     18.9
Total Undisbursed (Including Partlelpants)                              2.5      0.1      2.6
_n tw t l  unl
1/  Invesmnt was totally cancelled.



- 12 -
5EQMCA  ANW
Page 1 of 16
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAMT   OV             PROJECT
SECTION As  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.        The public sector in Jamaica comprises some 18 ministries and over
300 statutory bodies and publlc enterprises. The Central Admministration
employs approximately 70,000 people or about 7% of the labor force. According
to the Ministry of Public Service (MP$), the total number of civil servants
has declined over the past few years due to the erosion of salaries and to the
redundancy program carried out under stabilization measures. Complete data
are lacking due to a poor human resources management information system. The
available data indicate, however, that the number of authorized positions in
the Central Administration has remained virtually unchanged for the past five
years and that, at present, the vacancy rate of these positions in the
professional, managerial and technical (PMT) group is high. For example, in
the Ministry of Construction, (Works) one of the largest ministries, the
vacancy rate is between 40% and 50%.
2.        The average annual rate of salary increases between 1985-1990 was
approximately 12%. Large increases took place under two compensation
packagess the first package was introduced in FY86 and the second, in early
FY89, in order to provide an incentive for improved performance of the
administration. Both packages have sought to address the difficulty in
recruiting and retaining the PMT group of civil servants. Overall, wages and
salaries have decreased in real terms at an annual average rate of 1.6% since
1985. If teachers, police and members of the armed forces are excluded, the
decline in the salary levels of the civil service in real terms may have been
much more pronounced.
Institutional setup
3.        Structure of Administration.  There are no major distortions in the
basic structure of the administration which is essentially similar to that of
other Commonwealth countrles that operate under the Westminster system.
However, there is confusion and duplication of role and function between some
departments within each mlnistry, and between some ministries and statutory
bodies because of (a) a lack of clear definition of the ministry's mission and
(b) the existence of other departments or public bodies with similar
responsibilities. The decision-making system is also overcentralized at every
level, with inadequate delegation of authority from the core minlstries
(Finance, Development and Planning and MPS) to the line ministries, from
minister's and permanent secretary's offices to departments and divisions, and
from headquarters to field offices. Overall the existing structure does not



- 13 -
Pago 2 of 16
provide an appropriate environment to facilitate strategic planning or
identification and implementation of relevant programs.
4.        Human Resources Management. The personnel management function for
civil servants is carried out by the Ministry of Public Service (UPS), whose
head reports to a Cabinet Minister, and the independent Public Service
Commission (PSC), whose members are appointed by the Governor-General (on the
recommendation of the Government). The responsibilities for the
"establishment" functions, such as the organizational structure of ministries
and departments, position classification and grading of posts, staff
complements, salaries and condition, of service, training policy and programs,
and superannuation arrangements, are policy matters which are considered as
having financial implications and are vested in the MPS. Decisions concerning
the careers of individual members of the service, such as recruitment,
appointment, transfer, promotion, opportunities for training, and the exercise
of disciplinary proceedings, are placed under the Public Services Commission,
an independent, impartial and non-political body with emphasis on the
protection of the civil servant's career and on the integrity of service.
5.        The training of civil servants is conducted by a group of four
institutions that includes, inter alia, the Administrative Staff College (ASC)
and the Financial and Accounts College of Training (FACT). The ASC was
established in 1976 and has about 7 teachers, with 850 students annually. The
FACT, established in 1985, has about 6 teachers with 700 students annually.
These institutions are legally attached to the UPS. They provide short and
long-term courses on public service management, financial analysis,
accounting, budgeting, computing languages and secretarial skills.
6.        Personnel management in the administration is weak.  Decisions and
actions concerning promotion, recruitment, reorganization, and creation of new
posts generally take months (sometimes years), mainly because of redundant
procedures, overcentralization of the decision-making system, and lack of
adequate staff and incentives. The Government does not have complete data on
the number of its personnel, nor their qualifications. As for training, the
courses given to up-grade basic skills related to financial management and
secretarial work need to be modernized and the FACT should be expanded to be
able to take in more trainees. The management training at the ASC is
considered to be generally too theoretical and too long (12 weeks) to be
appropriate for the needs of senior civil servants.
7.        Financial Control.  The Ministry of Finance, Development and
Planning (MOP) has the primary responsibility for economic planning and
financial control. The two statutory bodies, the Planning Institute of
Jamaica (PIOJ) and the Project Analysis and Monitoring Company (PAMCO),
prepare the Government's Five Year Plans, and monitor public investments,
respectively.
8.        The financial control of the Government is maintained by: (i) the
MOP (Finance), (i) the Permanent Secretaries of the line ministries, (iii)



- 14 -
AMXX
TXCRUICAL ASSEx
Page 3 of 16
the Auditor General's Office, and (iv) the Public Accounts Committee of the
Parliament. As in other countries, the MOP has the general responsibility for
the preparation of the budget; the collection, management and administration
of revenues; and the accounting of public monies. These tasks are carried out
mainly by the Budget Division, the Taxation Division and the Revenue Board,
and the Accountant General's Department (i.e. the Treasurer). The Permanent
Secretaries of the line ministries prepare annual budget estimates for their
respective departments. They are the Principal Accounting Officers,
responsible directly to the Parliament (through the Public Accounts committee)
for the operation of their Ministries and departments, the accounting of
expenditures and compliance with laws and legislation, including the Financial
Administration and Audit Act (FAAA). The Auditor General's Office carries out
audits of accounts, and submits annual and special reports to the Parliament.
Finally, the government's financial account and the Auditor General's reports
are examined by the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament.
9.        The administration's financial management suffers from many
weaknesses. The Government budget is still operating on a traditional line
item basis (i.e. by the type or the nature of expenditures such as salaries,
supplies, etc.), although an attempt was made in the 19509 to convert the
system to program budgeting by clarifying the purpose of expenditures in terms
of program classifications. However, before completing the transition to
coherent program budgeting, with clear definitions of objectives and tasks of
each administrative unit, attention was shifted in the eighties to the
identification of quantifiable performance criteria for all the ministries by
introducing performance budgeting reform. (see below para. 21). Insufficient
attention was paid to the relevance of these criteria, or to other factors
essential in the use of program budgeting, such as the decentralization of
operational and financial management, and improvement of basic financial
management systems. Thus, the current budget model does not provide full and
adequate information on resource allocation. The quality of budget estimates
is especially poor with respect to capital expenditures leading often to
underfunding of individual departments. This is one of the reasons for the
failure to provide adequate counterpart funds, and to make full use of
external assistance, with negative effect on the level of planned and feasible
investment. There is also the problem of making a fundable realistic budget.
At present, many changes are introduced to the budget during the year because
requirements are not realistically matched to the economic constraints.
Moreover, there is no form and planning of major elements of expenditure
within a multi-year planning framework. In accounting, the timely preparation
of comprehensive and accurate monthly expenditure reports and of annual
appropriation accounts is considerably delayed owing inter ala, to poor
management and monitoring of imprest accounts, difficulties encountered in
bank reconciliation and clearing of advances, weak internal control systems,
unsatisfactory state of project accounting, shortage of trained personnel and
poor supervision, and problems in operating the existing computer software.
These problems in accounting contribute to poor execution of externally funded
projects by slowing down disbursements even where aid agencies have provided
special accounts. This results also in inadequate utilization and higher



- 1S -
Page 4 of 16
commitment charges. The accounting system thus fails to provide full support
to the budgetary system and inhibits the effective management of public
expenditures. Finally, the cash management system is rigid and overly
centralized often resulting in delays and disruptions of development project
implementation.
10.       Information Technology.  The availability and accuracy of data
relative to Government finances and personnel are limited, although some
computer based systems are used in government agencies. Two multi-user
computer centers constitute the primary government computing resources. These
are (i) Fiscal Services Limited (FSL), a public company, and (ii) the National
Computer Center (NCC), set up under the MPS.  The FSL is the superior facility
in terms of computer hardware, software and staff capabilities, and is
responsible for the computerization of the revenue administration. The NCC
operates the payroll and other assorted applications for a number of
government agencies. It pxesently lacks the capacity to support extengive
remote online processing. In addition, some ministries have limited
computerization underway.
11.       The experiences gained under ARP I and other Information Technology
operations in Jamaica have demonstrated that: (i) limited computer systems
initiatives have been successful in supporting both the operational and
management reporting requirements of the units for which they were intended;
(ii) an evolutionary approach to systems development, in which a core module
that provides essential functionality is first set up and later embellished,
has been successful; (iii) the limited availability of technical computer
personnel in government ministries and line agencies has been a primary
constraint to systems implementation; (iv) the telecommunication network
cannot be relied on exclusively for the transfer of data between line agencies
and central ministries; (v) the line ministries prefer to have control over
the data they generate. The proposed computer component has been designed
based on these experiences.
World Bank Lending in the Sector
12.       The World Bank approved a US$4.5 million loan for the Public
Administration Reform Project (ARP I) (Loan 2423-JM) in May 22, 1984. The
main objectives of the project were to (i) restructure the MPS, MOF, and PSC
in order to strengthen them; (ii) introduce a new position classification
system; (iii) introduce performance budgeting throughout the central
administration; and (iv) restructure selected line ministries. Other
objectives were to improve the compensation system and introduce the
decentralization of management.
13.       The project was implemented during 1984-87.  An evaluation was
carried out by the Bank in March 1988, for the financial and computer
components, and in April 1988, for the human resources component. The two
evaluations concluded that the results were limited due mainly to a lack of
government political commitment. The project had succeeded in restructuring



- 16 -
ANNIL X
TEmNCig   AMNE
Page S of 16
some major departments of the MOF and in encouraging the Government to appoint
competent Deputy Permanent Secretaries who would oversee these departments; it
had also succeeded in encouraging the Government to raise the salaries of PMT,
but the Government did not develop a compensation strategy beyond the one time
increase. As for performance budgeting and the position classification
eystem, there were fundamental technical problems. An effective introduction
of performance budgeting required that: (i) the objectives and tasks of each
administrative unit be clearly defined in terms of
program/activities/projects; (ii) each administrative unit had a clear
responsibility for carrying out specific programs and the function of
allotments, disbursements, accounting and monitoring of expenditures, and
(iii) the services of each unit be measured in terms of physical end products
or outputs. In Jamaica, the project succeeded in introducing "formats" of
performance budgeting but did not succeed in clearly defining programs, or
introducing organizational changes to allow meaningful management of programs.
Moreover, in order to derive full benefits from program budgeting, the
accounting and cash management system had to be strengthened. As for the new
position classification system, it was discovered that its use would be
severely limited because in many cases it did not adequately define the
factors which were necessary for the grading of a post. The expected
improvements in the organization of the MPS, the PSC and the line ministries
did not take place.
14.       The implementation of ARP I suffered from several additional
problems: (i) the activities carried out under the different components were
poorly coordinated; (ii) the consultants employed had little experience in the
management of public administration institutions or in the Westminster system
of Government; and (iii) the project management unit, or the Administrative
Reform Program office (ARP), was not attached to a ministry or a Government
organization, and thus was considered an outside entity making it difficult
for the unit to involve the ministries in the reform process.
15.       Technical Assistance Proiect I and II (TAL I and II).  The US$6.1
million loan for TAL I (2106-JM) was approved on March 23, 1982 and was closed
on September 30, 1985. The US$9.0 million loan for TAL II (2507-JM) was
approved on March 19, 1985 and the loan will close on October 31, 1991. These
two operations financed a variety of studies and reviews which were mainly
used to support the preparation or implementation of policy based lending.
Two of the activities supported by these operations are relevant to the
preparation and the design of the proposed FPM project, i.e., (i) the
establishment of a public investment (PSIP) monitoring system, and (ii) the
preparation of the proposed project. The PSIP quarterly monitoring system
established by the two operations is coordinated and supervised by the PIOJ.
The UNDP and the IDB are expected to finance further assistance to improve the
operatinn of the system. Thus assistance for this purpose is not included
under this project. From the proceeds of TAL II, US$1.9 millon was allocated
for the activities related to the administrative reform. A part of these
funds financed activities initiated under the ARP I, i.e., (a) the completion
of the new post classification system for the first 10,000 posts, (b) the



- 17 -
TIECENICRL AMfEX
Page 6 of 16
completion of a debt monitoring system in the Accountant General's Office, and
(c) interim assistance for the computerization of the existing budget system
in the Ministry of Finance. The balance of funds are being used tot (d)
prepare a program structure for the Ministry of Agriculture, (e) identify
major problems in accounting systems and in the management of external
assistance, (f) assist in the preparation of draft corporate plans in the
ministries of Construction (Works), Education, Public Service, Industry and
Commerce, and Information and Culture, (g) commence training of MPS staff in
corporate planning; (h) prepare a manual for corporate planning, and a program
for retraining and recruiting qualified managers, and (1) review user
requirements of the Financial Management Information System and Human
Resources Information System, and prepare bidding documents for software and
hardware.
Government Policy
16.       In addition to the FY89 compensation package that included an
increase in the salaries of all the senior managers and some technical streams
such as teachers and police, the government of Prime Minister Manley has taken
a number of steps In the area of public administration reform. A
comprehensive and coherent Government Policy Statement on Administrative
Reform was prepared and signed (see Annex II). It seeks to address the
problems of: (a) an antiquated and overcentralized structurel (b) outdated
systems and procedures; (c) strengthening the budget process by improving
timeliness of preparation, linking the budget more closely to macroeconomic
constraints, and introducing forward planning of requirements beyond the
budget year; and (d) lack of planning and strategic skills. It has
established a comprehensive management structure for reform, including the
absorption of ARP into the Prime Minister's Office. The key local managerial
staff and lead consultants for each component have been recruited (see paras.
39, 41 below). Two committees have been established: the first is a private
sector advisory group for the central administration. reform; the second, a
task force for the review of the size, scope, role and structure of the
government. The Prime Minister has led the review of those regulations that
are related to the management of the human and financial resources of the
government in order to expedite decentralization of relevant decision-making
systems. A Graduate Recruitment system has been introduced, and the first 18
university graduates have been recruited. The government has also gone ahead
with the preparation of draft corporate plans for the ministries of
Construction, Education, Information and Culture and Industry, Production and
Commerce. Finally, it has initiated a review of the budgeting, accounting,
cash management, and financial reporting system in order to prepare for their
reform.
17.       Proiect Obiective.  The objective of the project is to assist the
Government in continuing the efforts to improve administratLve proceduree and
structures begun in the second half of the eighties, and continued by the
current administration, but avoiding some of the mistakes of ARP I indicated
in paras. 13-14 above. The project will concentrate on (a) improving the



- 18 -
ANNENCAL AI N
Page 7 of 16
2roaram budget classification; (b) adjusting the object codes (i.e. the
breakdown of expenditures in terms of various items such as salaries, travel,
equipment in order to indicate the nature of expenditures); (c) strengthening
the budget process by improving timeliness of preparation, linking the budget
more closely to macroeconomic constraints, and introducing forward planning of
requirements beyond the budget year; and (d) strengthening the accounting and
cash management systems with special emphasis on the management of external
assistance. It will seek to improve proaram manacement and introduce changes
in the organization of selected ministries to align them to program
structures, and improvements, within key government agencies, of the
efficiency of over-the-counter services. For the post classification system,
the project will introduce a points factor evaluation system to supplement
work previously completed. The project will also introduce revised salary
scales linked to the adjusted post classifications and restructuring of
organizations. The implementation of the package for each ministry will be
conditional on initiating the implementation of the corporate plan and
completing the organizational reforms which have been proposed by the plan.
it is recognized that the new salary levels introduced under the FY89
compensation package will soon become non-competitive and the exodus of PMT
staff will start again unless a medium-term compensation strategy is in place.
As for Cg2p iatratoin, the project will establish specific systems in
selected ministries rather than centralized systems for the whole Government
as was planned under ARP I. It will assist in establishing a comprehensive
organizational structure for the management of The Administration Reform.
Proiect Components
Financial Management
18.       Items to be Financed.  Three senior consultants will be employed on
a full time basis to work for three years on budgeting, accounting and cash
management. Eight long-term local consultants (in total 384 man/months (m/ml)
will be employed to manage and staff the Reform Cell of the MOP. A consultant
budget of approximately 12 m/m will also be provided under the project to
carry out reviews of specific issues required for the implementation of this
component.
19.       The project will help to develop and utilize the methodology and
procedures for the preparation of an informative budgt which will be based on
clearly defined objectives and expenditures of government programs, projects
and activities. A detailed activity/project breakdown in the budget and
standardized program classification for similar activities under recurrent and
capital budgets will serve to indicate clearly the purposes of fund
allocations. The program budget will specifically highlight the allocations
for important programs which are at present not shown distinctly in the
budget. Programs relevant to several ministries will be given a common code,
so that funds provided for such programs for the Government as a whole will be
identifiable from the budget (e.g., research and development, training,
expenditure on account of natural calamities, etc.). The program budget will



- 19 -
Page a of 16
help in clearly defining priorities and in allocating scarce funds among
competing demands, as the implications of increases/decreases of funde among
programs will be clearly visible with a detailed budget breakdown indicating
the purpose of each expenditure. This will be the first step in developing
realistic quantitative performance indicators. For example, the allocations
for research and development in Agriculttre do not give the detailed breakdown
into purposes in terms of activities/projects. In the proposed budget, the
R&D component under "Livestock Research and Improvement" will include distinct
activities/projects such as "Feed Research and Evaluation," "Breeding System
for Dairy and Meat Animals", and "Husbandry System for Livestock". Similarly,
the propoaed budget will provide more data on the funds allocated for
administration. At present, the budget does not indicate such provisions
separately for Headquarters, Regions and field offices.  There is no uniform
nomenclature for such a separation in all ministries/departments. Finally,
the program budget will help the Permanent Secretaries maintain control when
transferring Government funds to autonomous and statutory bodies. For
example, at present the budgetary support for the National Irrigation
Commission is shown in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture as a single
line item in the form of a grant. The program budget will exhibit this grant
according to different purposes such as allocations for different capital
projects and maintenance activities. The Ministry of Agriculture will thus
have a tool to monitor whether the statutory corporations spend the grants for
the epecific purposes intended by the Parliament.
20.       The exieting budget process will be strengthened over time by
establishing a more realistic budget framework, improving the timeliness of
budget preparation, and introducing forward planning of major elements of
expenditure in a multi-year planning framework. Successful implementation of
program budgeting will require that realistic budget ceilings are established
for spending ministries as early as possible in the budget preparation cycle.
Once a realistic budget base has been established, it should then be possible
for ministries to estimate their recurrent budget commitments in a multi-year
time frame (to take account of 0 & M requirements from capital projects,
pension liabilities etc). Establishing such improvements in the budget
process are essential prerequisites for a sustainable program budgeting
system.
21.       The weaknesses in the existing system of agcounting will be
identified and operational improvements introduced. The classification and
cod.-ng of vouchers will be adapted to support the program budget. At present,
there are substantial delays in accounting. For example, an Annual
Appropriations Account of an important development ministry for externally
funded projects has not been submitted to the Parliament for over five years.
There is constant delay in providing monthly statements of revenue and
expenditure to the MOF. The detailed accounts of advances and deposits are
incomplete and large sums are pending adjustment. Funds disbursed under the
imprest accounts are outside the system of precheck by the controllers. These
are some of the aspects that will be examined and corrective action will be



- 20 -
Page 9 of 16
initiated as part of the objective to set up a sound operational accounting
system in order to generate timely and accurate data.
22.       The cash manaaement, or the warrant system, will be reviewed and
operational improvements will be introduced. The increased accountability of
managers under program budgeting should be underpinned by a "reasonably
certain" flow of funds. At present, sometimes a ministry may receive only 20%
of its approved capital budget in the first six months of a given year.
Moreover, the frequency and timing of releases often do not meet the
requirements of project implementation. The inability to provide funds on a
regular and assured basis is also related to the lack of realistic budgets.
All the aspects of the procedure for release of funds will be reviewed and
improvements introduced.
23.       The system of budgeting, accounting and monitoring external
aesistgace will be streamlined. In Jamaica, the annual level of public
capital expenditure on projects in the fields of agriculture, education, and
public health depends to a large extent on external assistance. However, the
counterpart funds needed to bring in the external assistance inflows assumed
in the budget are frequently inadequate and are not provided in a timely
manner.   While this is primarily the result of the domestic resource
constraint, there are other factors on the procedural and organizational level
related to financial management that hinder a timely and efficient utilization
of external assistance. The accounting classifications and procedures involve
duplicate work in compiling the data required for presenting reimbursement
claims to the donors. There is no uniform procedure for sending such claims
to the donors. These and other aspects related to the financial management of
external assistance by the MOF and the line ministries will be reviewed and
improvements introduced.
24.       An appropriate system for the delg=ation of financial decision
makina powers will be identified and adopted. The line ministries require
powers commensurate with the increased accountability that will result from
the introduction of program budgeting.   At the same time internal audit
arrangements in the ministries will have to be strengthened in order to make
sure that the powers delegated are prudently used. The mechanisms for project
monitoring and revisions of project cost will have to be strengthened as a
tool of expenditure control. This means that not only the system but the
organizational structure must be reformed in orler to facilitate clear
definition of responsibilities and delegation of power.   The project will
tackle these latter issues under both this component and the Program
Management component discussed below.
25.       Finally, the system of financial reporting and flow of information
will be reviewed and improvements, introduced to ensure that (i) unnecessary
and duplicate returns are eliminated and (ii) essential information flows to
the different agencies in the line ministries and Ministry of Finance, in a
timely manner.



21 -
Am I,
Page 10 of 16
Program Management Component
26.       Items to be Financed.  One senior consultant will be financed on a
retainer's contract for 32 m/m.  The consultant will visit Jamaica whenever
necessary. This is expected to be at least three times annually for the first
two years of the project. The frequency and duration of the visits will
decline during the third year.  One local consultant (48 m/m) will be employed
in the Reform Cell of MPS to manage the program management component, and two
full time external consultants will be employed for two years to assist the
Government in implementing and monitoring the program. In addition 40
man/months of consultant budget will be provided to finance short-term
consultancies required for the implementation of corporate plans, and
improvements of over-the counter services.
27.       This component will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
selected ministries by providing a methodology which will assist the managers
to define the ministry's objectives and priorities, identify relevant
programs, monitor progress in their implementation, and develop appropriate
administrative structures to support the delivery of programs. During the
project period, eight ministries (The ministries of Finance, Public Service,
Education, Health Construction, Agriculture, Industry, Commerce and
Production, and Information and Culture) will prepare a formal planning
document which will include: a statement of the mission, the desired outcomes,
basic strategies to achieve them, program structures, an organizational
structure related to the program structure, financial plan (capital and
recurrent presented on a program basis), and a management information and
control system (MICS). The proposed project will assist each Ministry to
implement the corporate plan. Moreover, based on the plan, these ministries
will establish a syetem whereby their senior executive officers will discuss
the performance of the ministry using the MICS, identify issues, and recommend
corrective actions. Where an evaluation indicated that a current service,
product or activity was not achieving the planned objective, the Ministry will
design and pilot test new ideas. Each ministry will also produce an annual
report which will identify the extent to which objectives had been achieved.
The preparation of the plans of Construction, Education, Health, Industry,
Commerce and Production has already been initiated but within the policy
context established and in support of the institutional changes promoted by
the Bank-financed Road Infrastructure Planning project (signed on December 12,
1990), Social Sector Development project (signed on August 8, 1989), and Trade
and Finance Sector Adjustment II project (signed on March 22, 1991).
28.       The corporate planning exercise of the pilot ministries will include
a review of those statutory bodies the function of which is critical to the
ministries. The government will proceed to rationalize (including possible
consolidation or privatization) those statutory bodies which have been
reviewed, keeping in mind thats (1) unnecessary overlap of functions between
the statutory bodies and other agencies would be removed; (2) an accountable
management structure would be established; (3) a management information system
to enable the timely provision of information to the relevant ministries would



- 22 -
AM:NX  AN"5
Page 11 of 16
be installed; (4) an improved performance with respect to achieving objectives
and carrying out tasks efficiently would be required; (5) cost recovery
principles would be applied in all statutory bodies with commercial
activities.
29.       In the remaining ministries, the component initially would involve
defining their missions, identifying relevant strategies, and establishing
information systems. These ministries wili not derive full benefit from the
introduction of program management and budgeting since the organizational
changes necessary to provide managers with clear responsibility and authority
to manage program and financial resources will not be carried out until the
next stage of the reform. However, if judged possible based on a review to be
carried out from time to time, a program of action for implementing corporate
planning in additional ministries will be prepared and adopted.
30.       As part of the measures to implement a corporate plan in the MPS,
the project will provide assistance to adjust by no later than July 1992, the
nost classification system. The Government has decided to import and adapt an
existing post classification system being used by one of the Australian state
governments in order to avoid further cost of developing a new system. The
project will assist the government to adapt this system, and train the
personnel in the MPS and in the line ministries.
31.       The project will also assist the Government to prepare and implement
a program for attracting and recruiting gualified nrofessional. manaaerial and
technical staff. This program will consist of measures to: (a) decentralize
personnel recruitment procedures; and (b) to provide adequate compensation.
In order to develop more flexible appoirtments procedures, the PSC will review
the 1961 Regulations on Appointments, with a view to sta.-.dardizing selection
methods and delegating decision-making to Permanent Secretaries. In order to
recruit and retain qualified people, the project will assist the MPS to
prepare adequate salary scales linked to the new post-classification system by
no later than July 31, 1992. The government will only implement the niw post
classifications and the appropriate salary scales in those ministries where
the implementation of corporate plan has been initiated and organizational
reforms proposed in the plan have been carried out.
32.       The project will assist the Government to design and implement
measures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness within selected
government agencies, of over-the-counter services to the general public and
which are crucial to the developmental efforts of the Government. A list of
such agencies was prepared and approved by the Cabinet. Such list may be
amended from time to time as agreed between the Government and the Bank (Annex
III). Because of its visibility, urgency and the role it should play to
mobilize public support for the Government's overall administrative reform
program, this sub-component will be managed directly by the OPH, with
assistance from the senior consultant working on Corporate Planning and in
consultation with the ARP, Reform Cells, and the relevant line ministries.



- 23 -
=MIA& M
Pago 12 of 16
computor Component
33.       Items to ba Financed.  The project will finance 100 man/months of
consultancy services to assist the Government in the definition of the system
requirements, researching software D.ackage solutions, developing
hardware/software configurations and implementation strategy, going through
the procurement processes, implementing the selected hardware/software
solutio.ts in selected ministries, training of technical and user personnel,
and setting up organizational arrangements for pout implementation support.
The project will also finance a senior computer expert for 48 m/m as the
program manager of the computer component, and a team of junior computer
experts (12) for four years in order to provide technical support during the
designing, and the operational phases of the systems. The project will
finance US$2.1 million wLrth of computer software, hardware, and site
preparation.
34.       The Qouer Comooneat will assist the Government to implements (a)
computer-based systems in the NOF and selected line agencies to support the
Budgeting, Accounting, Cash Management and Financial Reporting prvicesses to be
designed under the Financial Management Component; and (b) the Human Resources
Management Information System (HRMIS) to assist the Government in the
management of the civil service. The implementation of these systems will
provide the NO?, MPS and selected line agencies with the tools necessary to
manage the large amount of data generated by the Government.
35.       The Financial Management Information System (FNIS) will be installed
in a phased manner on the basis of works carried out by the financial
management experts in the following ministries: MOT, MPS, Agriculture,
Education, Health, Construction, Industry, Production and Commerce,
Information and Culture, Labor, Welfare and Sports, Post and Telographs,
Public Utilities and Transport. In view of the difficulty involved in
introducing a highly centralized, mainframe-based system in the context of the
Jamaican civil service, it was decided that computing power will be
distributed to various government organizational units which use computer
systems and not be restricted exclusively to a central site. The FMIS will,
accordingly, be implemented on a series of super micro/mini computer, UNIX
based networks located at the MOP and line agencies identified earlier. The
mini computers located at the line agencies will perform all the computer
processing necessary for the agencies where they are located. Data will be
transferred to the NOF using the telecommunications system, to the extent
feasible. When this is not possible, the data will be transferred
periodically (weekly/monthly) on computer compatible media.
36.       The Human Resources Management Information System (HRMIS) will be
implemented on a mini computer to be located at the National Computer Center.
In addition, special modules for this system will be developed for selected
ministries as required. The hardware installed at the line agencies for the
FNIZ will be also used for the HRMIS. In order to minimize development costs,
packaged software solutions will be sought for both the FMIS and HRMIS. To



- 24 -
-u-I
WSCAD^ AMX
Page 13 of 16
the maximum extent possible, the customized development of system modules will
be avoided.
Training Component
37.       Items to be Financed.  Two man-years of external and 80 man-months
of local consultant services will be provided to the Government to help carry
out the trainlng component. The project will also finance US$50,000 of
computer equipment for a computer laboratory to be established in the FACT,
where trainers could get hands-on training in the use of hardware and software
used in line ministries.
38.       The training component (see Schedule A of Technical Annex) is
especially crucial to this project. It has two sub-components: (i) the
training required for the implementation of the project; and (ii) the
development of systems to train managers and upgrade staff of the
administration in general. The bulk of training for the first sub-component
will be provided by the senior advisors (i.e. consultants) for the three main
components of the project. They will provide both on-the-job and more formal
but brief courses and seminars to local senior and middle level managers who
are identified by the Government to focus on and to take lead in the reform.
These managers in turn will provide training to their colleagues and staff.
This option was selected in preference to employing an army of consultants
from financial or auditing firms to prepare and implement the project. It is
expected that this approach will be more adapted to Jamaica, cost effective,
and will be conducive to internalizing the reform.
39.       For the first subcomponent, it is estimated that about 3,000 civil
servants have to be trained in order to introduce the financial management
reforms, program management improvements, FMIS and HRMIS. This subcomponent
will includet (i) seminars to familiarize the Cabinet, the Members of
Parliament and the Permanent Secretaries with the objectives and the scope of
the reform; and (ii) classes for senior managers, computer staff, personnel
staff, senior and mid-level managers of selected development ministries,
financial managers and staff. Within each ministry, the theoretical and
practical training will be given by the project's consultants in his or her
area (i.e., corporate planning, financial management and computer). The
project will also assist in strengthening the Administrative Staff College
(ASC) and the Financial Accounts College of Training (FACT). These colleges
will give general management courses, and classes in program budgeting,
program management, accounting and computer skills.
Reform  anagement Comwoonent
40.       rhe project will finance 8S2 m/m of long-term local consultants
services for the management of the reform. These are included and costed
under each project component (i.e. the Reform Cells in the MOV and the MPS,
the Program Manager and his staff for the computer component, the managers and
staff in the line ministries who would work full time on the reform, and ARP)



- 25 -
TomChlN    UXNX
Page 14 of 16
except for the 36 m/m of long-term consultancy specifically allocated for the
office of the Prime Minister (OPM). This consultant will assist the Prime
Minister and/or the State Minister with the monitoring of project
implementation, and would act on their behalf as the "trouble shooter" for the
project.  The project will also provide 12 m/m of short term consultancies to
the OPM in order to supplement the expertise provided under this project for
the management of the reform, and to prepare necessary policy measures.
8ECTIO9  Bt PROJECT ADMIN!STRflIOM AND INPLBIUNTATIOI
41.       Protect Oroanization and Adminiatration (see for organigramme
Schedule B Technical Annex).  The Intorministerial Committee for the
Administrative Reform (INCAR) is the supreme political body for the
formulation and implementation of reforms in the area of public sector
management. The IMCAR is chaired by the Prime Minister, and, in his absence,
by the Deputy Prime Minister. The members are Ministers and selected Members
of Parliament. The IMCAR has a Working/Technical Group consisting of the
Financial Secretary; Permanent Secretary of MPS; and the Director of the PIOJ.
The Working/Technical Group is chaired by the State Minister of the OPM, and,
in his absence, by the Permanent Secretary of the OPM. It meets periodically
to assess the status of the project and calls for a general IMCAR meeting
whenever it deems necessary. The OPM will be responsible for the day to day
monitoring of project implementation, and coordination required at the level
of the ministers and permanent secretaries. The senior consultant working on
corporate planning will also assit the OPM in carryiog out its reform of over-
the-counter services. The Government Administrative Reform Programme Office
(ARP) attached to the OPM, will coordinate and monitor the day to day reform
efforts of the Reform Celle and the Planning and Budgeting units of the line
ministries as described below. The ARP was created under the Bank financed
ARP I project with adequate offices and equipment including computers. This
office will be maintained with its four professionals and seven support staff.
The senior local consultant who will be employed as program manager for the
computer component as well as the other computer consultants will be located
in this office. The MOF has established a Reform Cell and has recruited two
local consultants, one as director, and will recruit six others. The experts
on financial management will be advisors to the Reform Cell. The Reform Cell
will prepare and implement the financial reforms. The MPS will establish a
Reform Cell. The head of the Cell will be appointed by July 31, 1991, and the
other staff will be selected by September l, 1991. This Reform Cell MPS will
be responsible for the implementation of corporate planning, adjustments of
the post classification system and strengthening of the ASC and the FACT. The
senior consultant on a retainer's contract and two long-term consultants who
would be employed for the program management component would be located in
this office. The line ministries selected for the corporate planning
component will each establish a Planning and Budgeting Unit which will
initiate and monitor reform measures in different areas within each ministry.



- 26 -
Page 15 of 16
These arrangements will be adequate for the effective implementation of the
project.
42.       Terms of reference for all the external consultants, the heads of
the Reform Cells and local consultants for the Reform Cell (MOP), the Program
Manager for the computer component, the Project Manager in the OPM and the
heads of Planning and Budgeting Unit have been agreed with the Government
(Annex IV).
43.       Contract Manaaement and Renorting.  The ARP office will be
responsible for the recruitment of the consultants (in consultation with and
the approval of IMCQRR, OPM, Reform Cells, and the relevant Permanent
Secretaries), and for the administration of their contracts. It would prepare
quarterly reports on the progress of project implementation. In addition, it
would prepare an annual report summarizing progress in all the key areas of
the reform and, upon completion of the project, would collaborate in the
preparation of a project completion report.
44.       procurement and Disbursements. The goods and services to be
financed for the project would be procured in accordance with IBRD procurement
guidelines (procurement arrangements are summarized in Schedule B). One
expert in budgeting and cash management has already been recruited under TAL
1I. He was selected after a review of several candidates from the IMF Panel
of Fiscal Experts. The senior consultant for the Program Management
Component, with experience in managing a major Ministry in the Australian
Government, and who is currently assisting Australian State and Federal
Government Ministries to introduce corporate planning, has been employed under
TAL II. The contracts of these experts whose performance has been
satisfactory, are expected to be renewed and financed under the project. The
consultancy services for the computer component for the preparation phase of
the project are being financed under TAL It. These services have been
contracted after a selection process carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The terms of the contract describe tasks required to be carried
out both during the preparation and the implementation phases of the project
and give the Government the option to retain the services of these consultants
for the implementation phase of the project provided their performance during
the preparation phase continues to be satisfactory. The computer hardware and
software, including maintenance and repair services would be procured through
ICE following a two-step bidding procedure. Award of contracts for purchase
of goods above US$20,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Contracts for miscellaneous items of equipment and supplies costing less than
$20,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$130,000 would be procured through
local or international shopping procedures, requiring price quotations from at
least three eligible suppliers. Disbursements for contracts costing less than
$20,000 would be made against statement of expenditures, for which detailed
documentation evidencing such expenditures will be retained by the Government
of Jamaica (ARP office) and made available for the required audit and for
supervision by the Bank. A special account with an authorized allocation of
Us$400,000 would be established in Bank of Jamaica to facilitate the



- 27 -
AWL
CAL amm
Page 16 of 16
disbursement process. The completion date for the project would be December
31, 1997 and the closing date would be June 30, 1998.
45        Acconts and Audits.  Separate accounts and records would be kept
for all expenditures made under the project by the ARP office. The project
account and statements of expenditures would be audited each year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submitted to the lank no
later than six months after the close of the financial year.



Key Proaet AntivitieS
I _
A&eint Rud    Adviser                         August 1991               Government                       Signed Contract
Estblishment gf Budest Ceiline.
1)  Etablish 3 year macroeconomic
framework                                     By August 1992            MOF/TIOJ/BOJ                     Revised three year macro
targets.
i)  Estimate (3 year) revenue availability        By August 192              WOP                             Revised three year revenue
projection.                           N
I)  Review existing policy comateents of
ministries for the next three years           April-August 1992         MOF/Mnistrios                   Three year forecast of
expenditure commitments
iv)  Set annual budget ceilings for each          August-October 1992       MOV                               Ceilings set in call circular
ministry
v)  Evaluate above-colling requests               November 1992-            MOF/P1OJ                         Adjustment to coilings/1992-93
March 1993                                                 Budget
Develonment of Financial Planning
I) Financial Planning: Development               April 1992                MOF/RC                            A 3 year rolling financial
ministries                                                                                               planning frameork for
development ministries.
it)  3 Year Estimates for Externally              September 1991-April      MCFOPlOJ/Devolopment              3 year estimates for
Financed Projects.                           1992                       Mtnistries                       externally financed public
Investment program
ii)  Financial Planning: Other Ministries         Dece"ber 1993              OW/a I the ministries            a 3 year rolling financial         0
planning framework for the
Qovernment
1   bShStSBud"  l MDecember 1993                                            MWF/RC                            Full documentation of budget
process and procedures



n-ip
a)    Asmointment of Loeal I iewta -M               August 1992               MOF/RC                           Signod contracts
b)    Finane Administrattos Personnel
- establish Financial Planning and            Septeber 1991             MOF/RC/IPS                       PS colls established
Budgeting Cells In 5 Development
Ministries
-  appoint managers in other                  February 1992             MOF/RC/MPS/lin. ministries       As above
ministries for financial management
c)    Proaram RUdoat. Iolementation
i)  Program design: 6 development                 August 1991               MOF/RC/5 developmnt
ministries                                                              ministries
ii)  Program design: other development             January-July 1992         MOF/RC/other devolopment
ministries                                                              ministries                                                          0
lii)  Program design: other ministries              January-July 193          MOF/RC/other ministries          PB Structure
iv)  Recast of current budget: S                   August-October 1991       MOF/RC/S development             PB structures 1992-93, 1993-
development ministries                                                  ministries                       94, 1994-95 budget
v)  Recast: other development ministries          August-October 1992       MOF/RC/other development
ministries
vi)  Recast: other ministries                      August-October 1993       MOF/RC other ministries
vii)  Program budget preparatlon: 5                 November 1991-            MOF/RC/S development
development ministries                        January 1992              ministries
viii) Program budget preparation: other             November 1992-            MFO/RC/other dvelopment
development ministries                        January 1993              ministries                                                      to
ix) Program budget preparation: other             November 1993-            MOF/RC/ other ministries                                           £>
ministries                                    January 1994
3.   m           u L 
a)    Review of Financial and administrative        April-August 1901         MOF/W'S/RC                       Recommendations on genoral
powers for possble doloation within                                                                      decentr lIzation
the present financial legislation.



wUMM                                     ungm zm
)}   Farther review under new FAA                  Apei 1-Augus 1992         NOF/WPS/RC                        Recomodations on general
decentralization.
r)    D..olopmont of packaoe for mintstries        in line with PS and        In lin, with PO end Corporate    Recoendbtions for selected
under PS/Corporate Plnning                    Corporate Planning        Planning proorm                  ministries.
program
b)   Implementation of packae*                     As above                  As above
19!I     MBIG AMU CAH
)    Iarove F;inancigi Reaortina
1)  Revise main report format                     July 1991                MIF/RC Financitl Reporting        Approved format
Comittee
tl)  Revise supporting reports formtos             Julay-Decmber 11                                           Approved format
iii)  Prepare integrated quarterly report to       By December 1991          As above                          Quarterly Report on 191-2          c
Cabinet                                                                                                  Budget
iv)  Dovelopmet of filnancial reporting            October 11 -              As above plus ARP                Financial reporting system
package/customization for first pilot         February 1992                                              package
ministry
v)  Developmet of reporting packages for          February-April 1992       As above                         Operating financial reporting
other 4 pilot ministries                                                                                 package
vi)  Application of package to other               in line with PS           As above                         As above
ministries                                   isplemenation
bteini&uCaskhMaagmmnt                                                                                                                     _
I)  Review warrant system                        By July/August 1991        MOP/RC                           Rocommendations on warrant
system
li)  Strengthen cash management unit              December 1991              YOJ/YPS                          Ioproved Cn staffng to  
ondlyze repoags on sctuwalra
Oxpoditute *gatast Warern"s       F



III)  lmprove lnformatlon flooe  for warrant       Depends on Improvement
system                                       in accountig system
outlimnd below
iv)  Oevelop.et of formal roVenue and             July 1091 to April         MOP/RC ministries                Improve cash flow foraeat for
expenditure cash flow. as basis for          1992                                                        109293 budet
cash management
v)  Strengthen Treaury operations                 July 1992 to Aprtl        MOF/RC/BOJ                       Organization and procedures
1993                                                       for treasury operations.
S.                  DE1 TM:          fix
a)    Amoint Aecounting Adwiser                     By Septembr 1991
b)    Rev . of Accounting Svstm
1)  Inclusion of gifts in kind in 1991-9Q        In bodget for              MOP/Ministrios                   Improved information on aid
budget                                       1992/199                                                    inftowsw
II)  Rewonuo collection
- oxamine reconcillation for                 January to May 1992       MOF/principal revenue             Rduced lags in reconciliation
principal recevers                                                   r.cetvers
- examine reconciliation other               June to September 1992    MOF/Ulnlstries                    As above
agencies
Ili)  Bank reconcTliat)onjlmpresto/Advances
-  ,cc>ututed arrears In Ministry of         January to July 1991      MOF/Rofor Cell (RC) Ministry    Checking of arrears
Agriculture                                                          of Agriculture
- accumuleted arrears   development          July 19o1 to              MOP/SC/S development              As above
*inistries                                 March 1992               ministries                                                         °
- accumulated arrears other                  December 1992             MOP/RC/other ministries           As above                         S.,
oinistrles                                                                                                                              ° 
- astablialshg a *onXtor7ng unit             April lS191               MGF/RC                                          
u_der the newly created Inspectorate
(i.e. fo rer Controller Ceneral) to
ensure that acconts current                                                                                                               I-



32 -          ~~~SCHEDULE A
TEHIA   NEPage 5 of 10
o               ,c
U~~ ~~~ 6                          'a|             
.@~~ g                38                   .1  @ tsj
il  .t    Al   X  ,#                            ttE        s
C
I~~
D l S      -                 
,I  .   ,I                 
v  ~.                   ,                                  I



~mm                                             n                            m                                  a
vil) IntamaL Ani.t
- Recruit and retrain sat  for S              may 1991 - April 1992      MOFJRC/MPS/                      Estabitshen"t of strengtenmed
deovlopmnt ministries                                                 5 development ministries          internal audit unit for
dewelopment ministries
-  Othor dwelopmUt ministries                 Decembr 1992               lOFpRC/IPS/other develoml t       As above for other delopment
ministries                       ministries
- Otber ministries                            Deceer 1998                 OF/RCMPS/other ministries       As above for otbor ministries
viii) Adastation of account. tO oroaram
- 8 development ministrIes                    December 1991-            As above                          Program accounts structure
Marbch 1992
- Other dwelopmont ministries                 Dcembr 1992-              As above                          As above
Mrch 1993
-  Othr ministries                            Decmbr 19983 -            As above                          As above
March 1994
c)    Reim of Administrative Structure
i)  Revise accounting reglatlos and               Janusry-Oecember 1992   MIOF/RC                             Revised finance regulations
instructions as basis of no FAA Act.                                                                      md instructions
tl)  Review status of Finaoco and Accounting       May-December 1991          MOF/FC/MPS                       Upgraded posltions and
group.                                                                   Ministries                        remuneration
d)    Accountina NMarIa
-  revised accounts Mmnul                     by December 1993                                                                             kVP/ftC  Updated Accounts  aual  c
it.
a)    Estabitsh tormal planing and
budgeting unit (P0U)
i)  Appointmnt of heads of units                  September 1991            Education, Agriculture,           Selection ot the head of the
Information and Culture, MOF,    unit.
WPS, MIPC, Health, Works



- 34 -        ~~~SCHEDULE A
~~ 34  ~~~ TECHNICAL A4EX I
Page 7 of 10
1:1:                                    11|    
i                 ~~~~~~~~II
'3  *   1 *I                                      1 1  le      
I  e   I-                      -                      __  
is                                      g
| M    j 0 ii}j}ti
I .    XI  1                 jj j    ji I  }I



til)                                               June 1992                 Agriculture, Health               MIS coplot.d t    mple_mt.
IV)                                               August 1992                WOF                              MIS COmpletd e  lmplee4W.
d)    Post clostitcatioo                           ODcember 1991              UPS/AIR                          Clisstkatieon system for  ill
gntot pest.
December 1991             MPS/Ar                           Classification sytm for el a
remaning post.
e)    Compenation packag                            April 1992                  PS/ARP                         Draft pea" end timetable.
f)    Delegation frm WS                             Jun  1992                 UPS                              Circular. and updated Stott
Ordors Mama) preparad.
Training com_eed.
g)    Delegation tre  PSC                           march 1992                PSC                              Public sorvice regulations            '
revied.                              t
Ru.a
a)    Finalize computer organszatlon and           DOemor 1990               AP                               Projoect mansagment
Project Mament arrangement                                                                               organization ti ARP
b)    Finalize tunctional reuireent for             October 1990              ARP                              Functiornl roquirements for
FUQS and hardware/software for Pilot                                                                     FUS and hardware/softare
Ministries                                                                                               specifications
e)    Initiate procureet of hardware,               November 1990             ARP                              Geneal procurement notice;        'b  
software for FMRS for Pilot IlaIstries                                                                   pualflfc tton notior              qg 2e  :
tner docmnts tot banwreo|
and otware                        co
4)    Intal hardware,  oftware at Pilot                     rOtobe            ARP                              Installed hardware/software
sites an confirm seection                                                                                 ^  test report.
o)    Train ue staft In systqe use and              November 1091             ARP                              Trainrd users at pilot sites
Men_e operation  t Pilo sites



9)    Initiate procurement of additional            Feruary 1092               ARP                               Process for acquisttion of
hardware, softwtro                                                                                        additional hardwarso/ftwaro
pr.gres,ively at other
dinistries
9)    Ce_ om Inc  tall tation of hardaro at         Mearc  1093 IA                                               llardmare/softwero Installed at
remining sites                                                                                            other mTnistries
h)    Com oes  us  training at romining             March 1002                 AR                                Usors trained St other
sites                                                                                                     ministries
I)    Couplot. hardware, oftware                    Decambeer 1092            ARP                               flardwre/e.ftware installed at
lestllatlon at all sites                                                                                  other sies
J)    Complete FOIS implemetation                   June 1994                  ARP                               FUIS lpleOmntat;on coampleted
k)    Finalize functional requtiremet for           Mareb 192                  Asp                               Functional requiremnts for           w
HIMS an  hardwnre/oftwr.                                           HfIS; hardware/software                                                      0
reoq  reints                                                                                              speciflcations for HlEIS
1)    Initiate procurement of hardre,               April 1992                AMt                               Tender documents for hardwarel
softare for HRMIS for IUS at ItCC                                                                         software for HRIMIS
a)    Install hardware, softw4re at CC              Dcmber 12                  ARt                                ardware/software insltel   eat
"CC
a)    Train user staff                              August 1992               ARP                               Users traimnd
o)    Develop  itnistry specific Modules for        Decomber 1992 -           At                                 Ministry specific modules for
IUS at line agenes                            Jne 1994                                                    HRIS                                   CAQ
p)    Cae_om Installation at Line Agnces           December 1992 -           At                                Hardware/software installed at   0
(Including training)                          Jne 1004                                                    othor sites.
a)    Initial estabishmmt with manger and           January 1991                                                A pointment of Mwngr and two
two local programer/analysts for FMIS                                                                      nysts 
Fl



SCHEDULE A
- 37 -                TECHNICAL ANNEX I
Page 10 of 10
IT
I.I
*ll  ,{                                         s 3
iS j  6             Ii,        E i]            ij
I' '!! ggiEl.l.i.isS
p4~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 38 -
SCHEDULE P
TECHNICAL ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THE TRAINING PLAN
1.        The Jrs&nln  component would have two main objectives:  (i)
provision of information and training on the requirements for implementing the
project; and (ii) training to upgrade basic and managerial skills for the
administration in general.
2.        Imolementina The Pro1ect.  To achieve this objective a variety of
techniques will be used to provide appropriate information and skills to all
kinds of goverrment decision-makers from the Parliamentarian, Cabinet
Ministers, to senior management, line management, and accounting and budgeting
operational staff.
3.        The Senior Advisors working on the program management, program
budgeting and accounting and computerization components will provide on-the-
job training to civil servants who are identified to prepare and take the lead
in implementing the reform in each ministry. This will constitute a major
element of training for the main operational and line management staff. The
managers and the staff thus trained will in turn help to train their
colleagues or their staff. This will be conducted as an integral part of
project iWplementation and will be phased with the introduction of program
budgeting and program managument to the ministries.
4.       Other forms of br.efing and training will also be provided by these
Advisors and will include short briefing sessions/seminars for Ministers,
Permanent Secretaries and senior management; workshops/seminars for managers
involved in implementing program management and budgeting in their ministriess
(to supplement the training mentioned in para. 3 above); short formal training
sessions aimed at specific functional areas of significance to the project;
and formal training in the use of the financial management software and
hardware.
5.        The briefing sessions for Ministers and Permanent Secretaries will
initially give a broad overview of the nature of the project and the proposed
program. Subsequent sessions will keep Ministers and Permanent Secretaries
informed on progress. A more detailed set of presentations will be given to
senior managers of Ministries to promote awareness of the linkages between the
different project components (program budgeting, program management and
computerization) and the key issues to be addressed in implementing project
within their Ministries.
6.        Program budgeting and management workshops for ministry staff will
be held at several key points by the Senior Financial and Program Management
Advisors with support from the Training Advisors (see para. 9 below) during
the design and implementation phases of program budgeting. These workshops



- 39 -
SCIHDULE B
TECHNICAL-ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
will be designed to examine relevant issues, such as program structure,
organizational aspects, allocation of costs, preparation of financial plans,
etc., at the point vhere implementation agencies are involved in these
matters. This process will give implementing ministries the opportunity to
share experiences as well as for the Advisora to provide timely advice and
assistance on practical implementation.
7.        Operational training will also be conducted at FACT for accounts
and budget staff by the training advisors, the staff of FACT, and local
consultants in order to improve skills in key aspects of budget and accounting
operations. These courses will be of short duration and vill focus on
specific technical matters of concern. The course content will be determined
by the Reform Cell in consultation with FACT. Areas covered will include such
things as estimates, preparation for program budgeting, voucher preparation,
bank reconcililtion, accounts supervision and other areas identified by the
Reform Cell. Ministries included in the program will be advised well in
advance and a commitment will be sought to guarantee release of staff (for
short duration) to attend these course segments. Appropriate credit towards
FACT courses should be given to participants in these short segments to give
incentive to attendees.
8.        Computer training will aim to provide necessary skills for the
government to implement, operate and maintain the financial management
information system (PHIS) and human resource management information system the
(3RMI$)that are being developed as part of the project. Initial training in
the use of the selected software package at the installation site will be
provided by the vendor. This training will include an overview of the PHIS
functions, operational procedures for the accounting and budget staff in the
use of the system, and technical training for computer personnel for operation
and routine maintenance of the system. The last-named type of training would
be directed at the personnel in the pool of computer experts to be
established in the project. This pool of experts will include user-training
specialists who will provide continuing technical support and training to the
accounting and budget staff using the system.
9.        Unaradina Skills.  There is a need also to improve basic training
progrmas for financial management and to incorporate material into existing
courses from the improved financial management processing being introduced
into government. There will be three main elements to this aspect of the
training program: (i) upgrading of the ASC general management coursel
(ii) upgrading FACT courses in accounting including the introduction of a
course in the use of computerized accounting and FMIS. The Budget and
Accounting Advisor will assist the Training Advisors to upgrade the ASC and
FACT courses. The project would also finance US$50,000 of computer equipment
for the establishment of a computer laboratory at FACT to train accounting
staff in the use of hardware and software used in the line Ministries.



- 40 -
BCHRDULS 
TECHNICAL ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
for the establishment of a computer laboratory at FACT to traln accounting
staff in the use of hardware and software used in the line Ministries.
10.       The two Financial Management Training Advisors would be appointed
under the project. The first would work closely with the other Advisors in
the Reform Cell, the Consultants in ARP and Ministries to identify the needs
of Ministries for training and help define the content and various kinds of
training required. The second would work with appropriate training
institutions (principally ASC and FACT) to develop curricula and training
materials to meet the training needs so defined.
11.       The timetable agreed with the government is attached.



^ -                                         £                        _ m                                      ameT
a)    Training ta Facilitate R*f*t3
1)  Senior Executlve briefings
-  Ministor                                   June-September 1991       IOF/RC/ARP                       2 hour briefing
- Permanent Secretaries                       June-September 1991       As above                         2 hours briefing
- Senior Management: development              September-October 191    As boe                            Sorlee of 1 day sminars
ministries
- Senior Manageenot: other ministries         March-April 1992          As bovo                          As above
iI)  Prego  budgeting/financial planning
workshops
-  dwelopment ministries                      March-Soptember 1991     O1F/RC                            1/2 day workshops
-  otGer ministeles                           March-September 1992      As above                         As above
III)  Progrem mnagomnt (corporate
piming) Worksbop
-  developent ministries                      June 1991                ARP                               1 or 2 a-day workshop
- other ministries                            April 1992               As above
- estbl'sh trainee projects                  June 1991                 As above                          Project related on-the-Job
training
- follow-up visits/training at                 y e          11         As above                          As above
ministries                                                                                                                                  C
IV)  Cemputorizationa
-  treiniag for FUIS at pilot sit*e           September11               MARW                             Operation   an  systems 
training                         "
- traIning: other sitoe                       From November 1991       As above                          As above
-  start training for MINS                    January 19               As above                          As above



v) Operational training In budget and
accout  pre
-  Identify key training areas (e.g.          April-September 191        MOF/RC/FACT                       Draft training reuiremnt
recon tlutieo", mprestes,
estimates prepration, etf.) and
staff numbers
-  finalize traing program nd                 September 1991            MOFjRC/FACT                        Tro;aing program agreed by
requet commitment of staff from                                                                         minitaries
ministries
-  condct training                            September 1991-           FACT                               Short courses on spocialst
September 12                                                topics
b)    Str.nwiaai ma gf A&miniarative Staff
1)  Review of gnral Management couroe             October 1991               MOF/MS/ASC                        Recommendations on
restructuring and Initiate
implemetation
T;)  Estabish modular component for an             October 1991-             As *:owv                           Course designed
Executive Dewelopmnt Program                  Augut 1992
ltt)  Initiate modules                              September 1992             ASC                               Continuing executive training
c)    Rt&Cn0tholan  af FACT
t)  Review of current FACT curriculum             September 1991-            MO/IRC/FACT
MOarc1992
tt)  Design am  curriculum                         March 1992                As above                           ReviWd curriculum                       W
III)  Design computer training curriculum           January-Jun  1992          MOF/RC/FACT/ARP                   Computer training program
tv)  Inst ll computer facilties at FACT            June-July 1992            FACT/ARP                           Computer facilties                   '-
v)  Initiative computer training program          August 1992                FACT                              Continuing training In
for accounting staff                                                                                       computerized accounting
sySteMI



- 43 -
f3CMUICAL AMRE I
Page I of I
Management Structure for the Government's Administratlon Reform and the World
Bank's Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
Interministerial Committee
For Administrative Reform
(IXCAR)
INCAR Working Group
Office of the Prime Minister
Minister of State
Project Manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Administrative Reform Office
Public                   Reform Cell                         Refom Cell
Service                Ministry of Public                    Kinistry of
Commission                   Srvice                          Financ
Planning and Budgeting Units of Line Ministries 



- 44 -
ANN4EX II
Page 1 of 5
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
30 NATIONAL HEROES CIRCLE,
AYWOLYOG 6UBUCUZUTI                                        P.O. BOX 512.
n   No rtE' 
t'UaM Wo. s2z.uWo1i                                          KINGSTON,
JAMAICA
June 4, 1991
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
1818H Street
Washington, DC
Dear Sir,
govorment Policy Statement on Administrative Refom
At the heart of the Government's policy is the conviction
that Jamaica's growth and development are best achieved through the
operation of a market economy where free market forces prevail and
the private sector is the main instrument of growth. Accordingly,
the Government as far as possible will withdraw from commercial
activities and place the minimum of restrictions on the production
and movement of goods and services.
The Government bureaucracy must therefore play the
critically important role of facilitating this development while
ensuring the growth of the economy is as cost-effective as possible
and delivery of the social programmes meets the needs of a
satisfied public.
In recognition of the need to improve the management of
national resources and provide efficient support to the growth of
the private sector as well as to replace the prevailing outdated
administrative systems and management practices, the Government
decided to place highest priority on the Reform of the Public
Administration. The major policies and objectives are to ensure
that the Public Service is appropriately structured, organized,
staffed and equipped for more effective and efficient provision of
public services, greater focus on results, encouragement of greater
responsiveness to elected governments and a management environment
which provides adequate encouragement for individuals to improve
their performance.
The Public Sector in Jamaica comprises some 18 Ministries
and over 300 Statutory Bodies and public enterprises some of which



45 -                  ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
Mr. Barber Conable               2                    June 4, 1991
President
are currently out of operation. The Central Administration employs
ome 70,000 people representing approximately 7% of the labour
force. For effective performance and delivery of services, it must
develop the following basic characteristics:
(a) A career oriented service where posts are classified by
recognized professionals, emoluments are competitive with
the society at large and benefits such as pensions and
gratuities are delivered promptly.
(b) Respect and confidence of a satisfied community so that
sufficient   numbers   of   qualified   administrators,
professionals and technicians will wish to be associated
with it and young Jamaicans aspire to a rewarding Civil
6arvice career.
(c)  -ecision-making decentralized with clear policy and
operational guidelines to ensure consistency and
effectiveness, and operational standards based on clear
articulation of objectives and responsibilities, for line
aqencies to maximize their performance and reduce time
and/or cost for delivery of services, and to facilitate
the incorporation of external financing within a coherent
framework.
(d)  Clearly  defined  responsibilities  and  commensurate
authority ascribed to agencies, departments and officials
and avoidance of overlap and duplication of functions and
duties, in order to reach an optimum size and structure
for the public service, thereby avoiding wastage of
resources.
(e) Management information system to produce timely reports
to facilitate decisions at all levels of management.
(f) More effective arrangements for financial and other
auditing services to ensure that systems, standards and
policies are faithfully observed and -unauthorized and
corrupt practices detected.
(g) A well recognized College of Public Management for the
continuous training and development of staff for the
needs of the Government.
(h)  Effective communication programmes to enhance quality of
service delivery and relationship with the client public.
The processes through which these goals are to be
attained commenced with the establishment of the first phase of the



- 46 -                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Mr. Barber Conable               3                    June 4, 1991
President
Government Administrative Reform Programme (ARP) in April 1984,
assisted by two World Bank loans totalling USS6.47M as well as
technical support from the United Nations Management Development
Programme.
In implementing the second phase of the reform programme,
the Government will continue to seek the assistance of the World
Bank, the UNDP and other multilateral and bilatral agencies, while
recognizing that the basic commitment and organizational thrust
must rest with the Government itself both at the political and
bureaucratic levels. The Reform Programme is being administered
by the Inter-ministerial Committee on Administrative Reform chaired
by the Hon. Prime Minister, and Phase II will undertake a number
of inter-related projects and activities that are to develop the
type of Public Service described above.
A Financial and Programme Management Improvement Project
which represents a major segment of the second phase, has already
been prepared and is expected to commence on August 1, 1991, under
a new World Bank loan, the negotiations for which will take place
in mid-May 1991. This phase is to last three to four years, at the
end of which major reform activities will be in operation and the
foundation will have been laid for management and operating
personnel to continue work on the unfinished reforms and
refinements, and for administrative reform to be established as an
integral and continuous part of government operations.
The main activities and estimated timing for the
development and implementation of the foregoing policies are
outlined in the attached chart.
Yours sincerely,
th)
P. J. Patterson
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of
Finance, Development & Planning



ANNEX II
_47 -                 Page 4 of 5
91/92     92/93     93/94     94/95
1.   The review of the role
and structure of the
government
2.   Finish Report by
March 1992
3.   Implementation           ___ __ .. ... .._..
4.   Restructuring of some
organizations and minor
adjustments in others
along with simplifica-
tion of procedures and
improvements in the
quality of customer
service
S.   Implementation of Human
Resources Policy,
compensation, training,
Delegation, Classifica-
tion                       ...
6.   Updating of financial
administration law and
instructions
7.   Introduction of
Corporate/Strategic
Planning and reporting
systems                    ....
S.   Installation of a
computerized Human
Resource data bank
9.  Review of Personal
Management Standards
e.g. Classification
and Pay                  ....       .....                -
10.  Installation of
Programme Budgeting      .....      .....     .....     0*.



-48-                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
11. Revision of account-
ing, budgetary
control and cash
management systems          ...
12. Introduction of an
integrated financial
management reporting
system                    .....
13. A programme of
computerization
involving financial
management, systems,
human resources
management systems
and operational
control                   ..... ...            *0*. 
14. Strengthening of
control to ensure
achievement of
programmes and
maintenance of
financial viability of
Public Enterprises and
other statutory bodies              .....
15. Procedures for adequate
and timely provision of
resources and the
efficient use of such
resources                           ......    .....
16. Establishment of the
College of Public
Management        . .,..



- 49 -
Coutter ServiLce PriorLtm Acegeles
Phase I Re1gstrar General's Department
Titles Offlce
Inland Revenue Department
Customs Department
Town Planning Department
Stamp Office
Post and TelecomunicatLons Department
Phase It A list will be developed for the econd phase of the counter
services, after review of the first phase.



- 50 -
Page 1 of 2
Workina Pacers in Sgt2ort of the Project
LA3C2 WorkLng Files include the following supporting documents for
the proposed project:
1.        Terms of Reference for:
(a) Program Management in Corporate Planning Senior Expert
(b) Program Management in Corporate Planning Long-Term Expert
(c) Budgeting, Accounting, Cash Management Experts
(d) Training Advisor
(e) Accounting Review
(f) Egtablishment of Graduate Recruitment Program
(9) Establishment of Elite Civil Service Cadre
(h) Establishment of the Reform Cell, MinLitry of Finance
(i) Establishment of Planning and Budgeting Vnit, Line Ministrles
(j) Computer Program Manager
(k) Manager, Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
(1) Head, Reform Cell, MPS
(mn) Local Consultants, Reform Cell MOT
2.        Papers:
A.   Issues Related to Pro2ram Manaaement
1.  Application on the principle of Cost Recovery, to the
ProvisLon of Governments Goods and Services
2.  Decentralizing Appointments, Recruitment and Staff
Promotion
3.  The Introduction of Staff Appraisal for the Public
Service
4.  Decentralization or Regionalization of Administrative
Functions and Administrative Decisions
S.   Redeployment of Staff to High Priority Areas
6.  The Link Between Individual Ministry Corporate Plans and
Cabinet DecisLon-Making
7.  Corporate Planning Methodology
8.  Draft Corporate Plan for Ministries of Education,
Construction, Public Service



- 51 -
VMMJ
Page 2 of 2
B.   Zi.nmc&Jl Mads"uant
1.   Problems of Accounting in the ministry of Agriculture
2.   Financial Management under FPM
3.   External Assistance
4.   Program Structure for the Ministry of Agriculture



_ AA  le  . 2?-                            I
;? _A. 90 * _ -WF.                   Feet        "eter
MEK4O        CUmA  -_a OON 6908                               t8                 Main Arterbl Roads         0   Select" Towns
C       t        r2;@*E                            ;t -HAM  2964  m0oo  Mgan Seoodary Roads       Q   Parish Capitals
gFs jZF JAMbAICA-                   147    7    460                Main Ports                       National Capital
-.                   Intemetionsl                        Internatonal Akportm                       .... -   Parish gkUndaries
M~AR~A ao  *               0       0           ; .   Region Bowudrtres                County
* I 
CORNWALL                                   to                           ,
,n ~~FALMOUTHi ---  f9y
-<*w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                         }       tMIDDLESEX
p ,e    3.    MAF0A
ST ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~PR
de ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Pf~~~~~~O 3vm                                                                                  sr*#;2*D4rrt,1     ts    2{     *t 
Negri ~  ~ i_ WhUm  ')_ aiwbrdg 7/,AWjVY
S< ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                \ flfro                   Sr'
Rocky POW
to 20    MO 40 60ET
.0 .lU.S .O'  *                                                                                       ..  .- . .  -
E                       78'0t7'9X?V'                                                                           8a 
.                         _-I.I.                                                         .   . _ .I.                   .. _ . . 



