Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18742
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Jamaica
Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
(Loan No. 3386-JM)
December 23, 1998
Public Sector Management (LCSPR)
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1 = J$35.7 (Oct. 1998)
J$1 = US$0.0266 (Oct. 1998)
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGD                    Accountant General's Department
ARP                    Administrative Reform Programme
ASC                    Administrative Staff College
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CAST                   College of Arts, Science and Technology
CPs                    Corporate Plans
EFU                    Extemal Finance Unit (MOF)
FACT                   Financial and Accounting College of Training
FMIS                   Financial Management Information System
FPMIP                  Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
FPMU                   Fiscal Policy Management Unit (MOF)
FSL                    Fiscal Services Limited
GOJ                    Government of Jamaica
HRMIS                  Human Resources Management Information System
IMCAR                  Inter-Ministerial Committee for Administrative Reform
MDD                    Management Development Division of the Cabinet Office
MIND                   Management Institute for National Development
MOF                    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MPS                    Ministry of Public Service
NIBJ                   National Investment Bank of Jamaica
ODA                    British Overseas Development Agency
OPM                    Office of the Prime Minister
OPs                    Operational Plans
OSC                    Office of the Services Commission
PAMCo                  Project Analysis and Monitoring Company
PB                     Program Budget
PE                     Public Enterprise
PESAL                  Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
PIOJ                   Planning Institute of Jamaica
PIP                    Performance Improvement Program
PMT                    Professional, Managerial, Technical Personnel
PS                     Permanent Secretary
PSC                    Public Service Commnission
PSIP                   Public Sector Investment Program
PSMP                   Public Sector Management Project
RDBMS                  Relational Data Base Management System
SAL                    Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP                    Structural Adjustment Program
SBs                     Statutory Bodies
TAL II                  Second Technical Assistance Loan
TAXARP                  Tax Admninistration Reform Project
Vice President:                   Shahid Javed Burki
Director SMU:                     Guillermo Perry
Director CMU:                     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Responsible Staff:
Task Manager:                     Jit Gill



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3386-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE....................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESsMENT...................................1
A. Introduction/Background                         .............................1.
B. Statement/evaluation Objectives .............................2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...........................2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................            ..8
E. Project Sustainability .............................9
F. Bank Performance ...........................                                                           10
G. Borrower Performance ............................                                                     11
H. Assessment of Outcome ............................                                                     11
1. Future Operations ...........................                                                          12
J. Key Lessons Learned/Reconfirmed ...........................                                            14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                                                  16
Table 1.: Summary of Assessment                         ........................... 17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit ...........................                                            19
Table 3: Project Timetable ...........................                                                    21
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................... 21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................... 22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .......................................................      22
Table 7. Studies Included in Project .......................................................             23
Table 8: Project Financing .......................................................                       23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................                       23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................                        24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .                          ........................................ 28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                       ............................................. 28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                         28
APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE .............................................                                   30
APPENDIX B: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........ 77
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3386-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial and Program
Management Improvement Project (FPMIP) in Jamaica, for which Loan 3386-JM in the
amount of US$11.5 million equivalent was approved on June 27, 1991 and made effective
on September 17, 1991.
The closing date of the loan was June 30, 1998 with a four month grace period ending
on October 31, 1998. As of November 30, 1998 the value of the loan was US$11.5 million
of which US$11.49 million had been disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Rita Parrilli, Senior Public Sector Management Specialist,
Operations Support Unit of the Latin America and Caribbean Region (LCR) with support
from Jit Gill, Task Manager, LCSPR and Ali Hashim, ECSPE. It was reviewed by the
Caribbean Country Management Unit (CMU).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, June 8 to 12, 1998. It is based on material in the project file and discussions with
the Government and FPMIP financed consultants. The borrower has reviewed the Bank's
portion of the ICR and their evaluation of the project is attached as Appendix B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN3386-JM)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction. In the late 1 970s and 1 980s many qualified staff left the civil service for
more lucrative jobs in the private sector and abroad. The quality of services to the public
deteriorated. Centralized structures, outdated systems, and cumbersome procedures slowed
down decision-making and program implementation, and the management of human and
financial resources was adversely affected. The Bank supported the Government's structural
adjustment program in the 1980s through a series of Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs)
which included an action program in public administration reform. This program was
supported by the Bank's Public Administration Reform Project (ARP 1), which was one of
the first Bank projects whose aim was to improve central human resource and financial
management systems and procedures in an integrated way. The project was overly ambitious
given its four year time-frame, and was not successful for the most part in creating sustained
improvements, due largely to changes in the government's and the Bank's commitment to the
direction of the reform initiatives. It did, however, have some successes and provided a basis
for some of the reforms supported under the FPMIP.
Project Objectives and Description. The FPMIP supported the efforts of the
government to improve the efficiency of financial and human resource management through
five inter-related and mutually reinforcing components: (i) Financial Management--
introduction of program budgeting, improving timeliness of budget preparation, linking
budget to macroeconomic constraints, increased delegation of financial authority,
strengthened internal auditing and improved financial reporting; (ii) Program Management-
-introduction of Corporate Planning, improved over-the-counter services and personnel
management to attract and retain qualified staff; (iii) Computerization--development and
introduction of a Financial Management Information System (FMIS) to support the
budgeting, accounting, cash management and financial reporting reforms and processes, and
a Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) to improve personnel
management; (iv) Reform Management--strengthening of the Office of the Prime Minister
(OPM) in providing policy direction and management of public sector reform projects; and
(v) Training support for each of these areas. These objectives were realistic, important for
the country and consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy.
Implementation Experience and Results. The project substantially achieved each of its
objectives, and some were exceeded. Taken together, the advances described below have
enabled the Government to make more effective use of scarce resources and thus obtain
greater benefits from expenditures. These reforms are likely to be sustained.



iii
Financial Management: Program budgeting has been introduced throughout
central government; the new budget structure is fully operational in all ministries,
and rolling three year plans help assure funding to bring activities to completion.
The Government now has the capability to prepare informative, realistic and
timely budgets that reflect available resources and national priorities. The new
accounting system makes available accurate and complete data in a timely
manner. The Auditor General is now able to carry out performance and "value
for money" audits. The Internal Audit Directorate in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and internal audit units in line ministries and departments have been
established. The warrant system was reviewed and adjusted; financial
management of external assistance has been strengthened; financial decision
making powers have been delegated to match the autonomy of line ministries
under program budgeting; and financial reporting is now timely, standardized
and codified, which has improved accountability and transparency of public
expenditures.
Program Management: A beginning has been made to shift organizational
emphasis from inputs to outputs and outcomes through Corporate Planning and
Program Budgeting. Corporate Planning has improved managers' ability to
define the entity's objectives and priorities and link priority areas to the budget.
Corporate Plans (CPs) and Operational Plans (OPs) are now required with budget
requests. CPs are prepared on a three year basis for all ministries and
departments (originally eight were targeted) and are updated quarterly, exceeding
the annual requirement. Human resource management improvements include
decentralization of personnel recruitment to line agencies, introduction of a
points factor evaluation system, and preparation and implementation of new
professional, managerial and technical staff (PMT) salary scales. PMT salary
scales were adjusted in 1990 and 1994 and some PMT categories are now on par
with market rates. The number of qualified applicants has increased in recent
years and the vacancy rate has decreased. Eight agencies were selected to pilot
the Customer Service Improvement Program. This was increased to 25 agencies
and customer satisfaction increased in all participating agencies, including Inland
Revenue, Customs, and the Post Office.
Computerization: Computerization has facilitated the above financial and
personnel management improvements. The FMIS increased speed and coherence
by enabling the accounting, audit and cash management functions "to talk to one
another" and the overall status of budget execution to be monitored government-
wide. It provides a better basis to make cash allocations. By implementing these
systems, the government has moved from a manual budget executing and
accounting system to a largely automated one. It has improved availability of
financial information to managers, increased the timeliness and accuracy of
financial reports, and improved the capacity to perform internal and external
audits.



iv
The HRMIS gives line ministries a tool for human resource management and
decision making, including facilities for maintaining an up-to-date and complete
record of information on civil servants over the course of their careers. The civil
service establishment has information on levels, skills, numbers of employees,
their ages and gender in order to know the trends. The HRMIS has already been
put to practical use. The system is user-friendly.
The Reform Management Component succeeded in strengthening the
implementation and monitoring capabilities of the Cabinet Office, the ARP
Secretariat and Reform cell of the MOF. Training objectives were substantially
achieved and in some cases were exceeded. Much of the training was carried out
by the Management Institute for National Development (MIND), which was
itself strengthened under the project through an extensive program to train the
trainers and design of new curricula.
Future Operations. The Bank and GOJ agreed that several actions need to be taken to
maximize project benefits. OPs need to be more closely linked to CPs and the PB; a Project
Databank being developed by the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) needs to be
implemented to capture data on capital projects; and a long-term computer systems strategy
for the future needs to be developed. The Public Sector Management Project (Ln. 4083-JM)
will continue the reform effort, including by strengthening the Office of the Auditor General
to audit computerized accounts; supporting development of a consolidated data base
containing Government-wide financial data as part of a Executive Information System;
supporting 25 additional agencies targeted for customer service improvement; converting 17
pilot agencies into "executive agencies" giving them significant autonomy in personnel
management, including recruitment, firing and setting salaries in order to achieve agreed
performance targets, attract and retain scarce personnel; strengthening the policy formulation,
monitoring and evaluation and corporate management capacity of three pilot ministries, and
continuing the rationalization of public sector entities, including statutory bodies (SBs).
Key Lessons Learned. First, far-reaching institutional changes, such as those required
for financial and human resource modernization, require a long time horizon to show
sustained improvements. This in turn requires a long-term commitment, consistency and
continuity of approach on the part of both the Bank and the Government. Second, a
comprehensive diagnostic and corresponding work plan is needed during project preparation
to guide the project implementation, avoid implementation delays, ensure proper linkages
among components and establish mechanisms for high level government involvement in the
project. Third, since government staff turnover adversely affects the sustainability of such
reforms, especially in technical fields such as public financial management, strategies need to
be developed to attract and retain skilled and trained staff. It is expected that the creation of
"executive agencies" under the PSMP will enable individual ministries to make salaries more
competitive. Finally, rapid changes in information technology necessitate continuous
upgrading of computer systems. It is important to find ways of upgrading software, such as
purchasing off-the-shelf systems where possible, and building into the capital budget of each
ministry the periodic upgrading of hardware. A high level entity, such as the Cabinet Office,
would need to have oversight responsibilities.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction/Background
1.   Jamaica began the 1 970s with a strong economic performance, a trend that was reversed
late in the decade. Significant declines in virtually all economic indicators and the growth of
Government and expenditures characterized the remainder of the decade. Lack of confidence in
the late 1 970s caused considerable capital flight and deficits resulted in increasing levels of
public debt. Many qualified persons in the civil service left their posts for more lucrative jobs in
the private sector and abroad. Complete data was lacking on the actual number of civil servants
due to an inadequate manual information system.
2.    The quality of services provided to the public deteriorated significantly due to the flight
of managerial, professional and technical staff from the public service. Over-centralized
structures, outdated systems and cumbersome procedures slowed down decision-making and
program implementation, discouraged initiative and demoralized staff. This affected the
management of public finance, including the ability to allocate, utilize and monitor resources in
an efficient and timely way. Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) I and II, approved in June
1983 and November 1984 in support of the Government's structural adjustment program (SAP),
included an action program in public administration reform.
3.    The technical assistance requirements of the SAP were met through two technical
assistance loans (TALs): TAL I for US$6.1 million approved in 1982 and TAL II for US$9.0
million approved in 1985. TAL II financed institutional audits of financial and human resources
management in order to identify the problems impeding productivity and efficiency and to
design plans for reforms. These audits informed both thle SAP and the Public Administration
Reform Project (ARP 1 - Ln. 2423-JM) approved in May 1984.
4.    ARP lwas one of the Bank's first public administration reform projects whose aim was to
provide an integrated approach to strengthening financial and human resource management. It
aimed to: (i) equip the Government's human resource management agencies with the capacity to
rationalize and manage the Government's compensation strategy and organizational structure,
assist in the decentralization of key personnel responsibilities to line ministries; (ii) improve
Government's financial capability by installing a performance budgeting system, strengthening
accounting and auditing, developing a financial officers' corps, and strengthening the MOF; and
(iii) restructure selected line ministries and pilot the reforms designed under the first two
components. The project was implemented from 1984-1987. It was overly ambitious given its
four year time-frame, and it was not successful for the most part in creating sustained
improvements. This was due in part to the tight fiscal position of the Government and
opposition to salary increases for professional, managerial and technical staff by the civil service
unions. The major factor, however, was due to changes in the government's and the Bank's
commitment to the direction of the initiatives undertaken. It had some successes and provided a
basis for some reforms later supported under the Financial and Program Management
Improvement Project.



2
B.   Statement of Objectives
5.    The objectives and description of the project, as stated in the President's Report, were to
support the efforts of the government to improve the efficiency of financial and human resources
management in the central administration to: (a) improve the program budget classification; (b)
adjust the object codes (i.e. the breakdown of expenditures in terms of various items such as
salaries, travel, equipment in order to indicate the nature of expenditures); (c) strengthen the
budget process by improving timeliness of preparation, linking the budget more closely to
macroeconomic constraints, and introducing forward planning of requirements beyond the
budget year; (d) strengthen the accounting and cash management systems with special emphasis
on the management of external assistance; (e) improve program management and introduce
changes in selected ministries to align them to program structures; (f) improve over-the-counter
services in selected agencies; (g) introduce a points factor evaluation system; (h) introduce
revised salary scales linked to the adjusted post classifications; and (i) implement (g) and (h) in
the selected ministries contingent on initiation of corporate planning.
6.    These objectives were more clearly focused during project implementation. For example,
the Financial Management Component aimed to introduce a budget system based on a Program
Budget structure and program classification, strengthen accounting and cash management
systems and adapt/link them to the revised budget model; increase delegation of financial
authority, strengthen internal auditing, and improve financial reporting. The Program
Mfanagement Component sought to implement a program to attract and retain skilled staff. The
Computerization Component aimed to develop a Financial Management Information System
(FMIS) to support the budgeting, accounting, cash management and financial reporting processes
introduced by the Financial Management Component, and implement a Human Resource
Management Information System (HRMIS) to improve personnel management. The Reform
Management Component sought to assist the Cabinet Office to improve its capacity for reform
management, preparation of policy measures, the and monitoring of project implementation.
The Training Component, was designed to provide extensive training to GOJ staff in the areas
supported by the project as well as assistance to strengthen the Management Institute for
National Development (MIND), the Government's umbrella training organization and the
successor organization to the Administrative Staff College and the Financial and Accounting
Training College.
7.    The project's objectives were realistic, important for the country, and consistent with the
Bank's country assistance strategy. A robust public sector was essential for the success and
sustainability of Jamaica's economic reform program, which has been supported by a number of
Bank operations. Consequently, public sector reform and institutional strengthening were key
objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). GOJ's Medium-Term Policy
Framework also emphasized the need for greater administrative efficiency, improved public
services and a new role for the public sector as facilitator of private sector-led growth.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
8.    The project substantially achieved each of its five development objectives. Although the
criteria for judging effectiveness of the project were not fully articulated in the President's
Report, they became clearly focused during implementation, per the summary below.



3
9.    Financial Management Component
(a) Program Budgeting has been introduced throughout central govemment since
1994/95 and the new budget structure is fully operational in all ministries and
departments. The effect has been improved government capability to prepare informative,
realistic and timely budgets that reflect available resources, and national priorities. The
current budget structure clearly indicates to Parliament the purpose for which the
budgeted funds will be used and enables ministries and MOF to prioritize expenditures
by providing details of competing programs and projects and the levels of physical
outputs expected for a given level of inputs. Ministries now have improved control over
funds transferred to SBs and autonomous institutions. It is also now possible for the
Auditor General to carry out performance audits and "value for money" audits.
Training. Over 4,000 managers and staff have been trained in program budgeting and
related changes in accounting. In addition, 190 staff from all ministries and departments
have been trained in financial modeling. Staff in all ministries and departments now
prepare Corporate Plans and use Program Budgeting.
(b) A sustainable Program Budgeting (PB) Process has been established and planning
has been improved due to the longer time horizon -- three-year rolling plans have been
introduced and implemented throughout government. Corporate Plans (CP) and
Operational Plans (OP) are now required with budget requests, although stronger linkages
are needed between CPs, OPs, and the PB. The timeliness of budget preparation shows
improvement: for the last three years, the budget has been presented in April of each
year, whereas earlier was presented in June. A Fiscal Policy Management Unit (FPMU)
was set up in MOF. Its functions include setting the overall financing framework over
the medium term, in line with macro-economic objectives, and establishing annual
budgetary ceilings. Regular, meetings are held between the FPMU and Cash
Management Unit (CMU) of the MOF to match revenue and expenditure projections and
revise budget ceilings.
(c)   The accounting system was revised to adapt to the program budgeting structure.
At the outset of the project timely preparation of comprehensive and accurate monthly
expenditure reports and of annual appropriated accounts was considerably delayed due to
poor management and monitoring of imprest accounts, difficulties in bank reconciliation
and clearing advances, unsatisfactory project accounting, shortage of trained personnel
and poor supervision. These problems contributed to poor execution of externally funded
projects by slowing down disbursements, even where aid agencies had provided special
accounts.
A new chart of accounts was developed. The accounting manual was updated.
Improvements were made in the monitoring and collection of non-tax revenue and
control over imprests and advances. Bank reconciliation was improved through the
FMIS. To control expenditure commitments and improve cash management, a
Commitment Control Module' of the FMIS has been developed and is ready for
implementation. The timeliness of monthly financial statements of line ministries has
The Commitment Control module will enable the ministry to record commitments and subsequently check for the
existence of a prior commitment before authorizing a payment.



4
improved from an average lag of 3 months before the project to an average lag of 6
weeks currently. Some agencies are producing statements within 10 days. However,
some delays are still experienced due to problems unrelated to the new program budget
structure or the FMIS. These are mainly supervisory and management related, e.g.
delays in preparing adjustment/journal vouchers. In the Accountant General's
Department (AGD) monthly Consolidated Fund Statements are prepared within three
weeks after the end of the month to which they are related. Public Debt Statements are
now available on line.
Training. Formal financial management training was provided to 34 middle and senior
managers and 830 staff in all government ministries and departments have been trained in
Accounting Levels 1 & 2. Seventy eight auditors have been trained in basic and
advanced audit techniques, focusing on value for money rather than compliance and
impact and benefit of expenditure.
(d)   Cash Management. The cash management or warrant system had been rigid and
overly centralized often resulting in delays and disruptions of development project
implementation. A ministry sometimes received only 20% of its approved capital budget
in the first six months of a year and the frequency and timing of releases often did not
meet the requirements of project implementation. The warrants system was reviewed and
adjusted. For the six month period ended September 30, 1998 about 75% of warrant
allocations were actually fimded. The FMIS now provides a better basis to make cash
allocations. Delays, however, may persist due to cash shortages, rather than to systemic
problems. The Debt Management function for external loans was transferred from the
Bank of Jamaica to the MOF and is supported by a system for managing Short Term
Loans and the Commonwealth Debt Management System (CSDRMS).
The Cash Management Unit, in the Ministry of Finance, was strengthened through
reclassification and regrading of posts, training in use of computers, closer working
relationships with line ministries for adjustment and monitoring of cash flows, improved
matching of revenue and expenditure projections by the FPMU and availability of FMIS
reports on actual expenditures. The staff of the AGD were provided on-the-job training
in FMIS and financial management. A Wide Area Network has been developed to enable
consolidation of accounts at the AGD. Cash management is expected to improve further
with the implementation of the Consolidation2 and Commitment Control Modules.
(e)   Financial Management of External Assistance has been strengthened with the
creation of the External Finance Unit (EFU) in the MOF to monitor and prioritize project
expenditures. A Manual for management of external assistance was developed and is
being implemented. Special accounts were integrated with the general accounting
system. Procedures for opening and operation of special accounts were standardized
across projects. Also, standardized procedures for processing of reimbursement claims
were introduced. This has resulted in improved timeliness of release of funds for project
expenditures. A significant improvement in financial reporting of externally financed
projects was effected and the timeliness of project audits has improved. The Planning
2 The Consolidation Module will enable a consolidation of information from spending agency systems to a central
data base and automatic production of overall budget execution reports for the MOF.



5
Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) is developing a Project Databank that will be linked with
FMIS. This will further enhance monitoring of externally financed projects.
(f) Delegation of Financial Decision-making Powers has increased to match the
autonomy of line ministries under program budgeting. A Handbook of delegated powers
in financial management has been issued, including revised financial regulations and
instructions. Internal audit arrangements in ministries have been established along with
the Internal Audit Directorate in MOF. Finance and Accounting group positions have
been reclassified and upgraded. Duties and required qualifications have been enhanced
and Principal Financial Officer positions have been created in ministries.
10.   Program Management Component
(a)   Corporate Planning. Public entities have been governed by rigid rules of
business, which take precedence over achievement of organizational objectives. A
beginning has been made to shift organizational emphasis from inputs to outputs and
outcomes through Corporate Planning and Program Budgeting. Corporate Planning3 was
to have been introduced into eight ministries and related critical SBs. These targets have
been exceeded. Corporate Plans are now prepared on a three year basis for all ministries
and departments and are updated quarterly, exceeding the annual requirement. All
ministries, therefore, are eligible for the new post classification and compensation
package, per the original project objectives. Corporate planning has informed the
rationalization of the relationship between ministries and SBs. Overall 43 (70%) SBs
falling under the umbrella of Ministries have been involved in reviewing and establishing
accountable management structures and identification and elimination of overlaps. In
particular, 15 of those entities have been restructured and are now operating at a higher
level of efficiency. Further, 3 SBs have been privatized and removed from the budget
while 6 are in the process of being privatized. Work continues with the remaining
entities through NIBJ, MOF, and the PSMP.
The disconnect between Corporate Planning and Program Budgeting experienced earlier
in the project is currently being overcome per the section below on "Future Operations."
The key link between the two is the Operational Plan (OP) which requires continued
emphasis. The OPs set out in measurable terms major tasks for each project, specific
output targets to be achieved and the cost. This forms the basis for the budget and cash
flow requests. It also facilitates quarterly monitoring and review by the ministries
(enabling them to respond to slippage in a timely way), Value for Money Audits, and
provides base data for the Project Databank under preparation by the PIOJ.
Training: Thirty eight people were trained in Corporate Planning at MIND and over
1,200 became familiar with the use of Corporate Plans through half day training sessions.
A Corporate Planning Manual was developed and disseminated.
(b)   Personnel Management reform was intended to attract and retain qualified
professional, managerial, and technical (PMT) staff through decentralization of personnel
recruitment procedures to line agencies, introduction of a point factor evaluation system,
3 The international consultant for Corporate Planning was financed by the British Overseas Development Agency
from 1995 to 1997.



6
and preparation and implementation of new PMT salary scales. An Australian Points
Factor Evaluation System for classification of posts was introduced at the senior
executive level and at the level of Senior Managers, Legal Officers, and Program
Managers; about 30-40% of PMT staff are covered by this system. Some
decentralization in personnel management authority was made e.g. for disciplinary
actions and appointments of support services staff. PMT salary scales were adjusted in
1990 and 1994. Improved compensation packages were implemented for 399 persons in
the professional, 788 managerial, and 162 technical areas. Some PMT categories are now
on par with market rates, such as legal officers, and communications specialists, but
many are not, particularly computer specialists, engineers, scientists, and health/medical
specialists. The number of qualified applicants for civil service positions has increased in
recent years and the vacancy rate is only at about 10%, except in the health field where it
is about 50%.
Training: Staff of line agencies have been trained by MIND in personnel classification
(management analysts and job analysts) in anticipation of additional delegation. Eighteen
participants from 14 ministries participated in 12 week courses in human resource
management including analyzing staffing and jobs, employee development,
compensation and benefits, job evaluation and classification, employee and labor
relations and human resource personnel and development.
(c)   Customer Services were to have been improved in priority agencies in order to
help mobilize support for the government's overall administrative reform program. Eight
agencies were selected to pilot the Customer Service Improvement Program, and
measures were designed and implemented to improve effectiveness. Customer service
improvements were instituted in 25 agencies, exceeding the original target. Before and
after customer perception surveys revealed increased customer satisfaction in all
participating agencies, including Inland Revenue, Customs, Post Office, and National
Insurance.
Training: Over 412 public servants and managers have been trained by MIND. The
project also funded the training of 25 MIND trainers for this purpose.
11. Computer Component
(a)   A Financial Management Information System (FMIS) has been designed and
implemented to support the budgeting, accounting, and cash management reforms in the
MOF and selected line ministries. The core expenditure management system has been
completed. The system checks payment requests against budget appropriations, warrants
and cash availability, processes the transactions, and issues checks. It automatically
generates expenditure accounts, enables bank reconciliation and prepares standardized
reports required by the MOF. The primary modules of the system have been
implemented at 17 sites encompassing all ministries. However, at present the system is
mainly operational at ministry headquarters, where spending unit transactions are
generally processed. Installation in subordinate spending units will be continued under
the PSMP.
Several agencies operate an automated payroll system to calculate the total amounts for
pay and emoluments due to their employees in a given month. The FMIS then processes



7
this as a payment request and produces a check for the agency to cover its payroll. A
budget preparation module was planned under ARP 1 and completed in the present
project. This system enables the MOF to consolidate budget proposals from spending
agencies and prepare the final government submissions for Parliament.
By implementing the core systems mentioned above, the government has moved from a
manual budget execution and accounting system to a largely automated system. The
FMIS has resulted in improved availability of financial information to managers. It has
increased the timeliness and accuracy of financial reports, enhanced control over
government bank accounts, improved the capacity to perform internal and external audits
and has automated the labor intensive, high volume check issue process. Moreover,
timely production of financial and accounting reports, which are now standardized and
codified, has improved accountability and transparency of public expenditures.
Training: The implementation of these systems has required the training of a large
number of staff in the use of automated accounting systems. Three hundred staff at 16
sites in 13 ministries (including Offices of the Auditor General and the Accountant
General) have been trained in chart of accounts, budget structure, and new budget
execution procedures and the operation of the integrated financial management system.
An additional 700 received on-the-job training. Fifteen persons were trained as FMIS
Managers (super-users) and 30 senior managers were "sensitized" to the objectives and
benefits of the FMIS.
(b)   Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) was set up in the
MPS and in selected line ministries to give human resource managers a tool for HRM and
decision making, including the facilities for maintaining an up-to-date and complete
record of information on civil servants over the course of their careers. It captures and
maintains data related to: basic personal information on a civil servant, including
information related to his/her education, training, skills, payroll and pension related
information, disciplinary actions if any, separation from service, and the complete service
record, including all personnel actions during the course of his/ her career. The prototype
has been deployed at 34 sites across government and contains data on about 25,780 civil
servants out of a total of about 36,000. Although a prototype, the HRMIS system is
already proving useful to HR managers at both the line agency and the central levels in
the performance of their functions.
Training. One hundred thirty six senior managers and 74 application managers were
trained. Over 100 were "sensitized" to the system's capabilities and about 300 staff at
field/user sites were provided with operational training and support.
12.   Reform Management Component: The objective of strengthening administrative reform
implementation and monitoring capabilities in the Cabinet Office, ARP Secretariat, and Reform
cells of the MOF and MPS were met. A network, with 12 work stations, was established in the
Cabinet Office to facilitate Reform Management. An Evaluation Committee to evaluate
Corporate Plans has been set up in the Cabinet Office. A retreat of Permanent Secretaries was
organized in October 1997 to develop strategies for the implementation and sustainability of
public sector reforms. The Project Secretariat and Reform cells in the MOF and MPS (and later
the Cabinet Office) were adequately staffed throughout the project with an appropriate mix of



8
local and international consultants and GOJ staff specializing in areas such as Project
Management, Financial Management, Human Resource Development and Computerization. To
enable GOJ to deal with the Year 2000 problem, a consultant was engaged to review the extent
of the problem and recommend a strategy. A Secretariat for the purpose has been established at
the Cabinet Office.
13.   Training Component. A total of about 7,000 persons were trained in all areas of the
refonn. Component specific training activities are described above and in detail in the matrix
attached to the final supervision mission's aide memoir (attached). In addition, the training
component provided seminars to familiarize Cabinet, MOF, and PSs with the objectives and
scope of the administrative reforms. Training objectives were substantially achieved and in
some cases were exceeded. Much of the training was carried out by MIND. MIND/MDD were
strengthened through the training of 73 trainers and new curricula were designed. Nine
members of the teaching staff were sent on short courses; 4 were trained in the FMIS and
HRMIS and training equipment was acquired under the project.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   Achievement of the project's objectives has been substantially facilitated by the stable
structure of the public sector in Jamaica, which follows closely the Westminster model. The
civil service serves the governnent of the day, regardless of which party forms the government.
It is expected to provide objective and impartial advice to the political executive branches and
help formulate policies in accordance with the priorities of the government. The service is
accountable to Parliament through the Ministers. This tradition helps assure independence,
freedom from political influence and continuity of reforms, such as those supported under the
FPMIP and related operations.
15.  In addition, both GOJ and the Bank benefited substantially from the positive and negative
experience of ARP 1. For example, the strengths of ARP 1 that later impacted on the FPMIP
included the following: (a) the design recognized the need for an integrated approach to public
administration modernization, i.e. one that closely linked human resource and financial
management reforms; (b) the importance of generating a series of early short-term tangible
results was recognized, e.g. reducing significantly the pension backlog under ARP I; (c) a
Human Resources Policy Statement was approved by Cabinet in 1986 (where there had been
none previously) setting the stage for future reforms; (d) the first comprehensive survey of
private sector/government compensation was conducted and MPS staff trained to carry out
similar surveys in the future; (e) a standard employee records system was introduced providing
a foundation for computerized HRMIS; (f) significant restructuring within the MPS occurred
paving the way for future delegation of authority to line ministries; (g) restructuring of the MOF
and the computerization of key financial management systems (budget, accounting, cash
management, debt) took place; (h) the role of the Financial Secretary was strengthened and the
position and remuneration was upgraded to the highest level in the civil service; (i) the much-
needed new post of Senior Deputy Financial Secretary was created at the level of PS; (j) the
Financial Officers Corps was established upgrading financial and accounting staff throughout the
Government; and (k) a computerized Public Debt Management Information System was
installed.



9
16.   Unlike ARP 1 the FPMIP: (a) had the direct and continued involvement of the Cabinet
Office in supporting the project from late 1993 through its completion, which gave the reform
program the authority and credibility needed; (b) received considerable Government
participation at the working level in its preparation and was characterized by a high degree of
government ownership following the establishment in late 1993of the IMCAR Working Group
under the Chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary as Head of the Civil Service; (c) had
consultants working as a team and together with counterparts, further ensuring sustainability; (d)
treated training as a primary activity, again helping sustainability; and (e) during the second half
of its implementation was marked by strong technical supervision from the Bank that remained
stable and supportive.
17.   There were, however, delays in implementation early in the project, mainly due to the
need to completely redesign and rewrite the FMIS application software. This in turn was due in
part to the absence of adequate early diagnostic work (para. 23) This was a learning experience
and the problems were eventually overcome.
E.   Project Sustainability
18.   The impact of the achievements under the FPMIP are already visible and it is likely that
the successes of the project will be sustained per the sections of this report on fulfillment of
objectives and the future operations. In this respect, the Government has a clearly articulated
policy for public sector modernization: (a) improving quality of service provided by essential
government agencies to internal and external clients: (b) enhancing the efficiency and
effectiveness of central government Ministries; (c) rationalizing the size and scope of the public
sector by privatizing entities and contract out services; (d) enhancing transparency and
accountability in government procurement, contracting and financial management; and (f)
improving tax administration. GOJ is also developing an Information Technology Policy which
includes: (i) Y2K policies and specific activities related to both the Public and Private Sectors;
(ii) Information Technology procurement standards, currently under review by the Information
Procurement Policy Committee of the Cabinet Office; and (iii) networking standards.
19.   The Government and the Bank embarked on two operations complementary to the
FPMIP: the Tax Administration Reform Project (TAXARP) approved in 1994 and the Public
Sector Management Project (PSMP) approved in 1996. The TAXARP aims at broadening the
tax base, facilitating voluntary compliance, and improving the effectiveness of the tax
administration in assessment and collection of taxes and control of tax evasion. This project is
proceeding satisfactorily and will have a direct impact on the FPMIP's program budgeting
process as it relates to matching revenue and expenditure projections.
20.   The $57.0 million PSMP ($25.6 million Government, $28.4 million Bank, and $3.0
million ODA) will help take the reforms introduced under the FPMIP to the next stage as
outlined in the Future Operations section. It will ensure that the introduction of computerized
financial and human resource management systems are carried to their logical conclusion.
21.   The project's impact on day to day financial management may be at risk due to some
deterioration in staff skills due to attrition and the difficulty in recruiting qualified new staff due
to continued differentiation between public sector and private sector salaries, especially in the
fields such as finance and IT, and obsolescence of computer hardware and software. However,



10
the salary related risk is likely to be mitigated by public sector modernization process supported
under the PSMP. The first stage would concentrate on modernizing a small number of pilot
entities. The selected entities would be given increased autonomy, in exchange for meeting
agreed performance criteria. Improvements in staff remuneration would be linked to
performance and would be self-financed by the entities through downsizing, efficiency gains and
self-generated revenues, where applicable. It is expected that this approach would reorient these
entities to focus on outputs and quality of service and lead to perceptible improvements in their
performnance, while keeping the wage costs in check. In the second stage of the modernization
process, these reforms would be extended to other public entities.
22.   The risk of computer obsolescence would be mitigated by the procurement of off-the-
shelf software in respect of the FMIS and HRMIS, which the Government has under
consideration. In addition, updated computer hardware will be purchased under the PSMP to
replace obsolete equipment currently in use. Individual ministries will then be charged with the
responsibility of including provision for maintenance and upgrading of computer equipment in
their own budgets. The Cabinet Office will have central coordination and oversight
responsibilities.
F.    Bank Performance
23.   The Bank's performance between the close of ARP I in 1988 and approval of the FPMIP
in 1991 was deficient. The lapse of time between the first Bank preparation mission (July 1988)
and loan negotiations (May 1991) was excessive given the extent of the preceding work. The
reversal of the Bank's previous intensive support for the administrative reform program is likely
to have contributed to a temporary loss of momentum. In addition, there were major deficiencies
in the project design and early implementation. First, although the overall assessment of the
areas of focus was correct, there was inadequate diagnostic work to provide the basis for clear
implementation planning and targeting. Second, while the goal of the project was integrated
public administration reform, adequate linkages among the components were not established.
For example, it appears that the corporate planning concept and methodology did not include the
processes by which the plan was to be linked to the budget. Planning as a means to inform the
budget process was not stressed. These linkages were only begun to be put into place toward the
second half of project implementation, coinciding with the shift in responsibility for Bank
supervision to the SMU.
24.   The overall performance of the Bank during later supervision, however, has been highly
satisfactory. Bank missions adopted a problem solving approach and, together with the Jamaican
authorities and counterparts, tried to find workable solutions to difficulties encountered. In most
cases concrete remedial actions were agreed. Project relationships were generally very positive.
The Bank enjoyed a close rapport with GOJ officials at all levels. The Bank followed standard
procedures during the supervision of the project. Supervision missions were regular and
enhanced by the fact that the related TAXARP and PSMP operations benefited from the same
task management as the FPMIP. This helped ensure consistency of approach and frequency of
contact.



11
G.   Borrower Performance
25.   The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory for both preparation and
implementation. GOJ complied with all loan convenants; project management completed all its
undertakings, including reporting and accounting responsibilities, and also followed the
procurement procedures specified. Although an adequate structure did not exist early in the
project to ensure high level support, the FPMIP enjoyed strong and continuous political support
from the GOJ from late 1993 onward due to the direct involvement of the Cabinet Office. This
was one of the major reasons for the project's success in implementing institutional reforms.
The project also benefited from the direct and consistent support of IMCAR4, and a competent
and adequately staffed Project Implementation Unit. The IMCAR Working Group, under the
Chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary as Head of the Civil Service, was established in late 1993
to provide policy direction, review progress, and resolve problems. Quarterly and annual reports
were prepared which provided a continuous update on the progress of the project. The quality of
national and international consultants selected and their outputs was generally high.
26.  In addition to the actions described in para. 18 GOJ has taken various steps beyond the
FPMIP and later the PSMP to support the reforms: (i) streamlining and restructuring of
Ministries; (ii) appointing the Cabinet Secretary as Head of the Civil Service to improve the
quality of advice available to the Prime Minister and Cabinet; (iii) disbanding of the MPS in
1995 and the Office of the PM being made responsible for its human resource, corporate
planning, and HRMIS functions; (iv) moving MPS' industrial relations and payroll functions to
MOF; (v) establishing the Efficiency and Reform Directorate, now the Management
Development Division, which included successful efforts to recruit senior executive staff; (vi)
and adopting a Citizen's Charter in pursuance of which pilot entities having extensive public
dealings were targeted for customer service improvement. The staff unions have also been
regularly apprised of the strategy of this project and of the PSMP as they evolved.
H.   Assessment of Outcome.
27.   The project's objectives have been largely achieved, and some have been exceeded, e.g.
the Program Budgeting, Corporate Planning, and Customer Service components. The expected
benefits from the project have been mostly derived. The Government has the capability to
prepare informative, realistic and timely budgets that reflect available resources and national
priorities. The new accounting system makes available accurate and complete data in a timely
manner. The project has provided ministries with a methodology to manage programs and
projects more efficiently. Computerization facilitated financial and personnel management
improvements and enabled GOJ to move from manual budget and accounting systems to a
largely automated one. Critical linkages are being established between corporate planning and
performance budgeting and need to be strengthened. The corporate planning exercise has
contributed to the rationalization of SBs and is being carried forward under the TAXARP and
PSMP through the NIBJ. For example, the Revenue Board has been folded into the MOF, and
the PIOJ, JAMPRO, and JAMPRESS are to be converted into executive agencies. Proper grades
and classification are now available for PMT, the HRMIS has been put to practical use and the
4 IMCAR, the Inter-ministerial Committee for the Administrative Reform, is the highest political body for the
fornulation and implementation of reforms in the area of public sector management. It is chaired by the PM and
includes ministers and selected Ministers of State.



12
system is considered user-friendly. Taken together, these changes have enabled the Government
to make more effective use of scarce resources and thus to obtain greater benefits from
expenditures. The outcome of the project, therefore, is satisfactory.
I.    Future Operations
28.   The Bank and the GOJ agreed on the following actions to maximize the project benefits
and ensure their sustainability. Activities that will be supported under the PSMP are indicated.
29.   Financial and Program Management Components:
(a)   Improve the quality of OPs prepared by ministries and departments to link tightly
to CPs and the PB and continue to emphasize the importance of CPs, OPs and
PBs as day to day managerial tools and create incentives for managers to do so.
The Cabinet Office is working with the Ministry of Finance and line ministries to
forge stronger linkages between CPs, the PB, and OPs. Currently a specialist
consultant is working with the Ministry of Agriculture on a pilot basis to improve
the FY2000/2001 output. It is expected that all ministries will have established
the expected linkages by FYOO-01.
(b)   Improve the capacities of ministries to monitor and evaluate performance of
departments, agencies, and SBs with reference to CPs, OPs, and the PB. It is
proposed to strengthen this capacity in three pilot ministries through the PSMP.
Parallel initiatives would be taken for other ministries in Stage II of the
modernization process i.e., following completion of the PSMP.
30.   Financial Management Component
(c)   Further improve monitoring by MOF of submission offinancial statements by
ministries to reduce delays. Strengthen the Financial Management Division of the
MOF.
(d)   Further strengthen the Internal Audit function through the PSMP to sustain
increased delegation of financial decision making powers.
(e)   Development of a more full function budget preparation system by the Budget
Division of the MOF through Fiscal Services Limited (FSL). This will give the
MOF and ministries enhanced capacity to develop and analyze budget proposals,
carry out "what if' analysis based on alternative scenarios prior to finalizing the
budget, and ensure fill compatibility with Program Budgeting methodology and
the FMIS Database structure.
(f)   Strengthen the office of the Auditor General and provide it with the capability to
audit computerized accounts. This would be done under the PSMP.



13
31.   FMIS
(g)   Extend the core system modules to spending units so that payment/receipt
transactions can be directly processed at these units. This is to be done under the
PSMP.
(h)   Implement the Commitment Control Module of the FMIS. This will begin once
MOF identifies a pilot agency in which to test the module. The pilot test is
scheduled for February 1999. The Consolidation Control Module is expected to
be up and running by end-November 1998. The Telecommunications Provider
has to rectify a number of line faults that affect the Wide Area Network. This
work is in progress and the software has been implemented at several sites.
(i)   Develop a consolidated data base containing Government wide financial data with
a Web interface and user friendly data access tools that form a part of an
Executive Information System for finance mangers in Government. This will be
done under the PSMP.
(j)   Implement the Integrated Project Databank being develped by the PIOJ to capture
data on capital projects. The data on expenditures already incurred on these
projects resides in the FMIS data base. An electronic link is planned between
these systems to enable the Government to monitor both the financial and the
physical aspects of these projects. This would further enhance monitoring of
externally and internally financed projects. It is intended that the FMIS take over
the Databank for conversion of the prototype to a full production system as an
integral part of the Integrated Financial Management System (PSMP).
(k)   Review the FMIS and HRMIS experience and develop a long term systems
strategyfor the future. This would define the next generation of software
requirements including the degree of integration required between various
systems modules and related systems such as tax and customs administration. It
would also determine the most appropriate implementation strategy for putting
these systems in place, including the possibility of using off-the-shelf application
software for some functions. The PSMP could finance such a review.
32.   HRMIS
(1)   Procure a payroll system to link the FMIS and HRMIS under the PSMP.
(m)  Complete the review of the HRMIS and investigate whether an off-the-shelf
package could be used to provide enhanced functionality required from the new
system. The system currently records personnel actions after they occur. HR
managers are looking for enhancements that will enable the system to carry out
the business processes related to personnel management and to produce
simultaneously all related information. A more robust industrial strength
Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS) compared to the current
paradox based platform is needed. This could be supported under the PSMP.



14
33.   Program Management Component
(a)   GOJ has targeted 25 additional agencies for customer service improvement.
Under the PSMP, 17 pilot agencies would be converted into Executive Agencies
to improve the quality of service.
(b)   GOJ proposes to convert most of its policy implementation agencies into
executive agencies based on experience gained in the pilot entities included in the
PSMP. These entities would have significant autonomy in finance, operations,
and personnel management, including recruitment, firing and setting salaries in
order to achieve agreed performance targets. This would help bring salaries of
public servants further in line with market rates.
(c)   PMT salary scales were adjusted in 1990 and 1994. Some PMT categories are
now on par with market rates (e.g. legal officers, communications specialists), but
many are not (computer specialists, engineers, scientists, health/medical
specialists). Coopers and Lybrand are conducting a study with a view to
recommending to Cabinet a Job Evaluation and Management System (JEMS)
which is expected to address this problem since all PMT positions will be
covered.
(d)   Corporate planning has informed the rationalization of the relationship between
ministries and SBs. This work is continuing under the auspices of the National
Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), MOF and the PSMP.
34.   Training
(a)   Continue to train senior managers, finance managers and staff engaged in finance,
planning, and monitoring and evaluation functions to maximize the benefits from
the new financial management arrangements and systems. Training in financial
management would be carried out under the FMIS component of the PSMP.
Training in Corporate Planning could be done by MIND with its own resources.
(b)   Improve underlying financial management and accounting skills of staff by
recruiting qualified staff or seconding staff to UWI.
J.    Lessons Learned[Reconfirmed
35.   Achievement of complex and far-reaching institutional changes, such as those required
for financial management and human resource modernization supported under the FPMIP and
the PSMP, require a long time horizon to take root and yield fruit. This in turn requires a long-
term commitment, consistency and continuity of approach and support on the part of both the
Bank and the Government, sometimes spanning changes of Government and more than one
operation and task manager. The FPMIP had this commitment, whereas ARP 1 did not.
36.   Comprehensive diagnostic work should be completed during the project design to
provide a clear basis for implementation planning and targeting, ensure that the proper linkages
are established among project components, and help ensure that mechanisms are in place to



15
facilitate high level Government support. GOJ and Bank efforts later compensated for
deficiencies in these areas at the design and appraisal stage.
37.   Government staff turnover adversely affects the sustainability of reforms, especially in
technical fields such as public financial management. Suitable human resource policies and
mechanisms should, therefore, be devised to ensure that: (a) staff remain in the positions for
which they have been trained for a reasonable period; and (b) the compensation system, at least
for highly skilled jobs, is such that qualified persons can be attracted and retained in public
service. One of the objectives of creating "executive agencies" under the PSMP is to enable
individual ministries to make salaries more competitive
38.   Rapid changes in information technology necessitate continuous upgrading of computer
systems. Systems developed under the aegis of a particular project are likely to become out-
dated within two to three years. To avoid this, it is important to devise mechanisms to enable the
borrower to finance the regular upgrading of the systems, without depending on a successor
project. The FPMIP has the PSMP to finance the enhancement of its systems, at least for the
near term. In the longer term, one option may be acquisition of "off the shelf' systems which
have already been developed and which come with the possibility of continuous upgrades. This
has been recommended by the Bank and is under consideration by GOJ.
39.   Local ownership of reforms is imperative for their success. Leadership of the reform
must be the responsibility of the government, rather than the consultants, as happened during
ARP 1.
40.   Institutional change is facilitated by early successes. The importance of building
successes in the short-term and gaining public support was recognized and acted on (the over-
the-counter service improvements).



16
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8:  Project Costs and Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Jamaica - FPMIP Loan 3386
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                aO                                         El
Sector Policies                             O             O              El
Financial Objectives                                      E O  O         El
Institutional Development     El            l                    
Physical Objectives                         o O                          El
Poverty Reduction             o             0             O              El
Gender Issues                 o             O             O              El
Other Social Objectives       0             O                           In
Environmental Objectives                    a                            El
Public Sector Management      El            O             O               o
Private Sector                a             O              ]             El
Development
Other (specify)               Dl O                                       El
Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability        (1)                   (/)
E0                    o                     G
Highly
C. Bank Performance              satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                 (V')                   (1/)
Identification                E                     E                    El
Preparation Assistance        E                     E                    El
Appraisal                     E                     E                    El
Supervision                   El                    E                     E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
(Pa)         (/) (E)
Preparation                            El           0l



18
Implementation                                      El            O
Covenant Compliance                                0El 
Operation (if applicable)                          0El 
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome        satisfactory Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
0/)          0/)           ( El



19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit
Jamaica - FPMIP Loan 3386
Loan            Title                                Purpose                          Year of approval        Status
Preceding Operations
2105-JM   Structural Adjustment   Structural Adjustment aimed at fostering export-led growth and  1982      Fully disbursed
Loan I ($76.2m)      the private sector through attention on the need for public sector
savings, public investment restructuring to favor infrastructure,
and deregulation. Non-traditional exports, agricultural, and
manufacturing received particular attention.
2106-JM   Technical Assistance    The project's intent was to support the recently initiated and  1982      Fully disbursed
Loan (6.1m)           ambitious SAP program of the GOJ and the broad SAL of 1982
through the provision of consultants for studies and high-level
experts for key advisory positions and training of local
managers.
2315-JM   Structural Adjustment   Structural Adjustment was intended to deepen initiatives    1983          Fully disbursed
Loan II ($60.2m)     undertaken under SAL I with the additional inclusion of action
programs to improve public administration
2478-JM   Structural Adjustment   Structural Adjustment loan continued to focus on the medium  1984         Fully disbursed
III ($55m)           term but included measures aimed at achieving the stabilization
program, including criteria for financial performance of public
enterprises, a new energy program, budgetary reforms, a
revised PSIP, and enhancement of export development
programs.
2507-JM   Second Technical      The objective of the loan was to provide technical assistance to  1985      Fully disbursed
Assistance ($9m)      help GOJ to implement its structural adjustment efforts by
providing consultants, equipment and training for: (a)
institutional development, (b) export promotion, and (c) human
resources development.
2423-JM   Public Administration   ARP I aimed to improve the central human resource           1984          Fully disbursed
Reform (ARP I -       management and financial management systems and procedures
$4.5m)                of the Jamaican public service, including through restructuring
the MOF, with the aim of achieving efficiency and
effectiveness in public service performance.



20
Loan           Title                                Purpose                         Year of approval       Status
2849-JM   Public Enterprise    The objectives of the loan were to support the SAP of the GOJ  1987       Fully disbursed
Sector Adjustment    by improving the fiscal performance of enterprises through
Loan-PESAL ($20m)   improved monitoring and control, improved operating balances,
the elimination of government arrears, and a reduction in the
size and scope of the public sector.
FOLLOWING OPERATIONS
3758-JM   Tax Administration   To increase the govermment's tax revenues through broadening  1994         Closing Date
the tax base; improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the             12/31/2000
Tax Administration; improving control of tax evasion;
improving tax collection systems; and facilitating taxpayers'
voluntary compliance with the Tax Legislation.
4083-JM   Public Sector        To assist the government in its efforts to improve the quality of  1996    Closing Date
Modernization       service provided by Agencies; enhance the efficiency and                     6/30/2002
effectiveness of Ministries; reduce the size and scope of the
public sector by: (i) fostering private participation in the water
and sewerage sector; (ii) privatizing agencies or contracting out
their services and/or management with the private sector; (iii)
enhancing the transparency and accountability in the area of
procurement/contracting of goods and services by the public
sector; (iv) strengthening the Government's internal control and
external audit functions; (v) enhancing and expanding the
coverage of the FMIS and HRMIS; and design; and (vi)
developing a follow-up stage of the Government's public sector
modernization



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Steps in project Cycle        Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification                      March 1990              April 3, 1990
Preparation/Appraisal             November, 1990        November 14-30, 1990
Negotiation                         May, 1991             May 30-31, 1991
Board Presentation                  June, 1991              June 27, 1991
Signing                             June, 1991              June 28, 1991
Effectiveness                     September, 1991        September 17, 1991
Project Completion                 June 30, 1998           June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                       June 30, 1998           June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan Disbursement, Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million equivalent)
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
FY                  92    93    94    95    96    97    98
Appraisal Estimate (Cumulative)    1.6   4.7   7.7  10.2  11.0  11.5  11.50
Actual (Yearly)                    0.91  2.25   1.60  2.31   1.50  1.02   1.91
Actual (Cumulative)                0.91  3.16  4.76  7.07  8.57  9.59   11.50
Actual as % of Estimate            57%   67%   62%   70%   78%   84%   100%



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/         Estimated                Actual
President's Report
INDICATORS NOT AVAILABLE IN PRESIDENT'S REPORT
SEE MATRIX ATTACHMENT TO AIDE MEMOIRE FOR ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL ACHIEVEMENTS
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
I. Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's          Estimated               Actual
Report                                                             l
INDICATORS NOT AVAILABLE IN PRESIDENT'S REPORT
SEE MATRIX ATTACHMENT TO AIDE MEMOIRE FOR ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL ACHIEVEMENTS



23
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Study      Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined    Status   Impact of Study
Study      Purpose  NOT APPLICABLE                               I
Table 8 Project Financing
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs      Costs               Costs    Costs
IBRD            2.1         9.4       11.5      2.8       8.7      11.5
Government         4.1          0        4.1       3.5        0        3.5
Total Project      6.2         9.4       15.6      6.3       8.7       15.0
Costs
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
An economic rate of return was neither estimated at the time of appraisal nor calculated after its
close. Estimates would be difficult to mate for this type of project. However, as most of the
project targets have been achieved, and in some cases even exceeded appraisal targets, there is a
strong indication that the project has been implemented in a cost-effective manner.



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Status    Orig.        Description of Covenant                Comments
Type              Date
Loan 3386-  2.02(b)     5        C               Borrower to open and maintain in   Complied with. Account was moved to
JM                                            dollars a special deposit account in  the National Commercial Bank.
its Central Bank.
3.01(b)     5        C               (i) Reform cell of Borrower's  (i) Reform Cell of MOFP in place. (ii)
Ministry of Finance, Development,  The Ministry of Public Service was
and Planning to coordinate     abolished. Subsequently, reforms
activities related to financial reform  relating to corporate planning and human
under Part A of Project. (ii)  resource management were coordinated
Reform cell of Borrower's Ministry  by the Efficiency and Reform Directorate
of Public Service to coordinate  and MIND. The project as a whole was
activities related to corporate  coordinated by the Director of Policy
planning and adjustment of post    Coordination in the Cabinet Secretary's
classifications under Parts B and    Office.
D.3 of Project.
3.01(c)    10        C               Borrower to: (i) prepare for release  Complied with.
of staff to undergo training in
financial techniques and computer
utilization under Part D. (ii) furnish
ARP, through corresponding P.S.
evidence of commitment to release
staff in question not later than two
months prior to beginning of
applicable training.
3.01(d)     5        C               Borrower to ensure: (i) meeting of  Complied with.
Working Group every 60 days to
review project implementation
status; (ii) general meeting IMCAR
as required; (iii) establishment of
planning and budget unit in selected
Ministries; and (iv) qualifications  I



25
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Status    Orig.         Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type               Date
and experience of Project Managers
and coordinators satisfactory to
Bank.
3.02(e)     10       CP               Borrower shall take such actions as  Partly complied with. The Corporate
necessary to rationalize functions of Planning exercise informed the
Statutory Bodies by: (i) removing   rationalization of some SBs. However,
unnecessary overlap of activities;   this work will continue as part of Stage II
(ii) establishing accountable  of PSMP.
management structure; (iii)
introducing MIS; (iv) improving
task performance; and (v)
introducing cost recovery principles
for those SBs engaged in
commercial activities.
3.02       5        C                Borrower shall: (i) maintain    Complied with.
adequate personnel in Project
during execution; and (ii) consult
Bank before making any Project
Manager or Coordinator
appointments
3.03(a)     9        C                Borrower shall carry out jointly  The mid-term review was carried out
with Bank a comprehensive mid-    February 13-28, 1994.
term review on progress of Project
based upon performance criteria
satisfactory to Bank.
3.03(e)     5        C                Borrower shall make such        Complied with.
modifications in Project necessary
in Bank's opinion for achievement
of project objectives.
3.05(a)     10        C    10/31/1991  Borrower shall appoint all      Complied with.
managers and staff for Parts A,B. 1
and B.3 of Project.



26
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Status    Orig.          Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type               Date
3.05(b)      10       CP   07/31/1992  Borrower shall: (i) complete     Down-sizing exercise occurred in
preparation of adjustments to post   1992/93, and the re-classification
classifications and accompanying    exercise using the Points Factor
salary scale for Part B.3 and for  Evaluation System was completed in
Selected Ministries; and (ii) begin   April 1994 for Senior Management
implementation of post adjustments  Group. Post Audit completed.
and salary scales upon
commencement of corporate plans   The number of ministries has been
for Selected Ministries and     reduced to 12. Significant salary
completion of any requisite     increases through market adjustments
restructuring and organizational  have occurred for some groups.
changes.
3.06         9        C                 (i) Reform cells will prepare and    Bank received reports on a quarterly
furnish to ARP and Bank monthly   basis.
status reports on Parts A and B; and
(ii) Borrower will furnish to
Working Group and Bank, through
ARP, detailed monthly report on
Project status, including separate
technical report for Part C.
4.01(a)      2        C                 Borrower shall maintain or cause to  Complied with.
be maintained records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in
according with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources,
and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the responsible
departments or agencies of the
Borrower.



27
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Status    Orig.         Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type               Date
4.0(b)       1        C                Borrower to: (i) have the records    Audit report for fiscal year ending March
and accounts referred to in (a)  1998 has been received. A separate audit
including those for the Special  covering the period through June 30,
Account for each Fiscal Year   1998 will be prepared and forwarded to
audited, in accordance with    the Bank.
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of
such audit; (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.   I
Type of Covenant                     Present status
1: Accounts/Audit                          C = Covenant Complied with
2: Financial performance/revenue generation  CD = Complied with after delay
3: Flow and utilization of Project funds   CP = Complied with partially
4: Counterpart funding
5: Management aspects of the Project or its executing agency
6: Environmental covenants
7: Involuntary resettlement
8: Indigenous people
9: Monitoring, review and reporting
10: Implementation
11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13: Other



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Statement Number and Title    T Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No known lack of compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Stage of Project Cycle      Weeks                              Actual
Preparation                   N/A          N/A           120.0        263.9
Appraisal through Board       N/A          N/A           21.6          43.7
Approval
Supervision                     27.2        50.8         84.8         184.0
Completion                       5.0        15.3          0.7           1.9
Total                           32.2        66.1        227.1        493.5



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Jamaica - FPMIP - LN 3386-JM
Stage of Project   Month/Year      No. of      Days in      Specialized Staff    Performance Ratings     Types of Problems
Cycle                _         Persons      Field      Skills represented*                                  **
Implem. Status    Dev.
Objective
___________________________             5     ___________________________s
Identification  not available    not        not available  not available
available
Preparatiorn    not available    not       not available  not available
Appraisal                      available   ___                                            L
Supervision                                                                             _
I          November 1991       4            7       TM,
II         May 1992             2           5       TM, ITF Specialist
m           April 1993          2           10      TM, ITF Specialist        S             S     B, C, J
IV          September 1993      2           8       TM, ITF Specialist         S            S      B, C, J
V          October 1993         3                   TM                        S                   B, C, J
VI          February 1994       5           11      TM, ITF Specialist         S            S      H, J
VII         November 1994       4            5       TM, 1TF Specialist        S            S      H
vm          June 1996            2           5       TM/Financial Mgt.,        S            S      H
Proi. Mgt.Specialists
IX         June 1997            3           5       TM, Financial and          S            S      H
Proj.Mgt. Specialists
Completion      June 1998           4           5       TM, ITF Specialist,        S            S
I__ __ __ __ __   I___________   I_______  __    PSM Spec.
*PF: Public Finance Spec
**    Types of Problems:
a/    Counterpart Funds                   e/    Environment                         i/    WID Impact
b/    Project Management                  f/    Environmental Plan                  j/    Monitoring and Evaluation
c/    Procurement                         g/    Financial Covenants
d/    Resettlement                        h/    Other Legal Covenants



30
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.  (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.              Cable Address: INDEVAS
June 22, 1998
Dr. Carlton Davis
Cabinet Secretary
Office of the Prime Minister
2, Devon Road
Kingston Jamaica
Dear Dr. Davis,
Subject: Jamaica Financial and Program Management Improvement Project -
Final Supervision Mission
Please find enclosed the Aide Memoir of the Final Supervision of the project that was that
carried out from June 8 to June 12, 1998.
The project has substantially achieved its development objectives. This is the result of the
continued commitment and support provided to the project by GOJ, especially through the Cabinet
Office and the Ministry of Finance. It is also the result of the dedication and hard work of the project
staff and consultants. A detailed review of the project would be found in Annex 1 of the Aide
Memoir.
At this time the following actions need to be taken:
*     Review Annex 1 to the Aide Memoir to ensure that it fully and correctly records the project
experience. The Aide Memoir will be attached to the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR).
*     Prepare an Operational Plan for the implementation phase of the project, indicating how the
project initiatives are proposed to be supported and sustained. It is requested that the Plan
may be sent to the Bank by July 31, 1998.
*     Prepare the ICR of the project. As discussed, the ICR will include one portion written by the
Bank and the other by GOJ. We expect to complete the Bank's portion by September 30,
1998 and send it you for comments. We would appreciate if GOJ could do the same
regarding its portion.
*     Adjust the Categories of Expenditure to accommodate final payments. A proposal to this
effect may please be sent to the Bank by June 30, 1998.
*     Finalize and close project accounts.



31
With the highest regards,
Sincerely,
Jit Gill
Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
cc.
I. Ms. Shirley Tyndall, Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Government of Jamaica.
2. Ms. Kirby Clarke, Director, Policy Coordination and Information Systems, Cabinet
Secretariat, Office of the Prime Minister, Government of Jamaica.
3. Dr. Wesley Hughes, Director General, PIOJ, Government of Jamaica.
4. Ms. Loraine Bucknor, Project Director.
5. Ms. Patricia Sinclair, Project Director, PSMP.



32
Jamaica: Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
Final Supervision Mission June 8-12, 1998
Aide Memoir
1.    A World Bank Mission consisting of Mr. Jit B. S. Gill, Task Manager (LCSPR), Ms. Rita
Parrilli (LCOSU), Mr. Ali Hashim (ECSPE) and Ms. Sharon Spriggs (LCSPR) visited Kingston,
Jamaica from June 8 - 12, 1998 to carry out the final supervision of the Financial and Program
Management Improvement Project (FPMIP). Since the loan is closing on June 30, 1998, the Mission
used the opportunity to review the project as a whole, to facilitate the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that would be published by December 31, 1998.
2.    The mission met with Dr. Carlton Davis, Cabinet Secretary; Ms. Shirley Tyndall, Financial
Secretary; Ms. Kirby Clarke, Director, Policy Coordination and Information Systems, Cabinet
Secretariat; Mr. Adrian Strachan, Auditor General; Mr. Diaz, Accountant General; Ms. Loraine
Bucknor, Project Director; Mr. Joseph Manley, Program Director (Computerization); Mr. Stephen
Knight, Program Manager, Financial Management Information System (FMIS) Unit; Ms. Beryl
Miller and Mr. Berome Edwards, Financial Management Reform Unit; Mr. Winston Oliver, Human
Resources Management Information System (HRMIS) Unit; Ms. Claire Spence, Dean, MIND; Ms.
Claire McKee Senior Director Finance, Ministry of Transport and Works; Mr. Winston Wright,
Principal Financial Officer, Ministry of Health; Staff of the Budget Division, Cash Management Unit,
Fiscal Policy Management Unit, External Finance Unit and Financial Management Unit of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning; Ms. Bennet, Director Management Services Branch of the
Management Development Division and staff of the MSB, The mission would like to thank GOJ
and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the many courtesies extended to it.
A detailed review of the each component of the project was carried out with reference to its
Objectives, Proposed Activities, Expected Results, Achievements and Future Operations. The results
of the review are presented in Annex 1 and summarized below.
I.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objective of the project was to support the efforts of the government to improve the
efficiency of financial and human resources management in the central administration. It consisted of
five components. The Financial Management Component aimed to introduce Program Budgeting;
strengthen the budget process by improving timeliness of budget preparation, linking the budget more
closely to macroeconomic constraints and introducing medium-term planning; strengthen accounting
and cash management systems, with a special emphasis on management of external assistance;
increase delegation of financial authority, strengthen internal auditing and improve financial
reporting. The Program Management Component, sought to introduce Corporate Planning in eight
ministries; improve the quality of over-the-counter service provided by a selected number of
government agencies; and improve personnel management by introducing a new system for
classification of posts and assisting the government in preparing and implementing a program for
attracting and retaining skilled staff. The Computerization Component aimed to develop a Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) to support the budgeting, accounting, cash management
and financial reporting processes introduced by the Financial Management Component, and



33
implement a Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) to improve personnel
management. The Training Component, was designed to provide extensive training to GOJ staff in
financial management, program management, customer service improvement and in the FMIS and
HRMIS. Finally, the Reform Management Component sought to assist the office of the Prime
Minister in monitoring project implementation and improve its capacity for reform management and
preparation of policy measures.
II.   PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUTCOMES
The project has substantially achieved its development objectives.
(i)   Financial Management Component:
(a)   Program Budgeting:
Program budgeting has been introduced through out Central government since 1994/95 and
the new budget structure is fully entrenched in all ministries and departments. The program budget
format gives details of recurrent and capital expenditures according to ministry, department, program,
sub-program, project and activity. In addition, it provides details of the nature of expenditure through
object codes (old line item classifications). Further, it contains a narrative description of the
objectives, activities and outputs of each ministry, program and project.
The current budget structure:
a     Focuses attention on outputs of programs and projects instead of on inputs;
3     Clearly indicates to Parliament, the public and government agencies, the purpose for which
budgeted funds would be used;
*     Enables ministries and MOF to prioritize expenditures by providing details of competing
programs and projects and the levels of physical outputs expected for a given level of inputs;
D     Allows more equitable funding of ministries and departments and avoids overfunding.
Enhances control of line ministries on the results achieved by statutory bodies and
autonomous agencies with the money transferred to them.
*     Allows aggregation of recurrent and capital expenditures of individual programs to facilitate
evaluation.
Enables quick regrouping of budgetary expenditures in line with changes in organizational
structure of the government (the budget was easily adjusted and produced on time despite
restructuring of ministries early this year).
Makes it possible for the Auditor General to carry out performance audits and 'value for
money' audits.
(b)   Budget Process:
The budgeting processes was reviewed and streamlined. Corporate Plans and Operational
Plans are now required with budget requests. The timeliness of budget preparation shows
improvement: for the last three years, the budget has been presented in April of each year, whereas
earlier it used to be presented in June. Three-year rolling plans have been introduced and
implemented throughout government. A Fiscal Policy Management Unit (FPMU) was set up in



34
Ministry of Finance. Its functions include setting the overall financing framework over the medium
term, in line with macro-economic objectives, and establishing annual budgetary ceilings. Regular,
twice-weekly meetings are held between the FPMU and Cash Management Unit (CMU) of the MOF
to match revenue and expenditure projections and revise budget ceilings.
(c)   Accounting:
The accounting system was revised to adapt to program budgeting structure. A new chart of
accounts was developed. The accounting manual was updated. Improvements were made in the
monitoring and collection of non-tax revenue and control over imprests and advances. Bank
reconciliation was improved through the FMIS. To control expenditure commitments and improve
cash management, a Commitment Control module of the FMIS has been developed and is ready for
implementation. The timeliness of monthly financial statements of line ministries has improved from
an average lag of 3 months before the project to an average lag of 6 weeks currently. Some agencies
are producing statements within 10 days. Timeliness of annual statements has also improved for
some ministries. However, some delays are still experienced due to problems unrelated to the new
program budget structure or the FMIS (e.g. delays in preparing adjustment vouchers). In the
Accountant General's Department monthly Consolidated Fund Statements are prepared within 2
months of end of month, whereas earlier they used to take up to 3 years, for example, the Monthly
Statement for April 1998 has already been prepared. Annual Consolidated Fund Statements are now
prepared within 6 months of year closing, as against 3 years before. Public Debt Statements are
available on line.
(d)   Cash Management:
The Warrants System was reviewed and adjusted. The FMIS now provides a better basis to
make cash allocations. The Cash Management Unit, in the Ministry of Finance, was strengthened
through reclassification and regarding of posts, training in use of computers, closer working
relationships with line ministries for adjustment and monitoring of cash flows, improved matching of
revenue and expenditure projections by the FPMU and availability of FMIS reports on actual
expenditures. The staff of the Accountant General's Department (AGD) were provided on-the-job
training in FMIS and financial management. A Wide Area Network has been developed to enable
consolidation of accounts at the AGD. A system for managing Short Term Loans was acquired and
the Commonwealth Debt Management system CSDRMS is being installed at the AGD, through GOJ
funds. Cash management is expected to improve further with the implementation of the
Consolidation and Commitment Control modules.
(e)   Management of External Assistance:
An External Finance Unit (EFU) was created in Ministry of Finance to monitor and prioritize
project expenditures. A Manual for management of external assistance was developed and is being
implemented. Special accounts were integrated with the general accounting system. Procedures for
opening and operation of special accounts were standardized across projects. Also, standardized
procedures for processing of reimbursement claims were introduced. This has resulted in improved
timeliness of release of funds for project expenditures. A significant improvement in financial
reporting of externally financed projects was effected and the timeliness of project audits has
improved. The PIOJ is developing a Project Databank that would be linked with FMIS. This would
further enhance monitoring of externally and internally financed projects.



35
(6    Other Financial Management Improvements:
Delegation of financial powers was increased. A Handbook on delegated powers in financial
management was produced and implemented. An Internal Audit Directorate in Ministry of Finance
and internal audit units in line ministries and departments were established. A separate classification
for internal auditors was developed to attract and retain skilled staff. Finance and Accounting group
positions were reclassified and upgraded. Principal Financial Officer positions were created in
Ministries. Financial reports were standardized and codified. These are supported by the FMIS.
(ii)   Program Management Component:
(a)   Corporate Planning:
Corporate Plans are now prepared on a three year basis for all ministries and departments and
are updated quarterly. An Evaluation Committee, including representatives from the concerned
agency, Cabinet Office, MOF and Management Institute of National Development (MIND), reviews
corporate and operational plans.
(b)   Customer Service Improvement:
13 agencies were initially selected to pilot the Customer Service Improvement Program.
Customer perception survey, conducted before and after the project interventions, reveal increased
customer satisfaction with services rendered in high visibility agencies such as Inland Revenue,
Customs, Post Office and National Insurance.
(c)   Personnel Management:
An Australian Points Factor Evaluation System for classification of posts was introduced at
the senior executive level and at the level of Senior Managers, Legal Officers, and Program
Managers; about 30-40% of Professional, Managerial and Technical (PMT) staff are covered by this
system. Some decentralization in personnel management authority was made e.g. for disciplinary
actions and appointments of support services staff. Line agencies have been trained by MIND in
personnel classification (management analysts and job analysts) in aniticipation of additional
delegation. PMT salary scales were adjusted in 1990 and 1994. Some PMT categories are now on
par with market rates, such as legal officers, and communications specialist, but many are not,
particularly computer specialists, engineers, scientists, and health/medical specialists.
(iii) Computerization Component:
(a)   Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
The design and development of the core expenditure management system incorporating the
required functionality has been completed. The system checks payment requests against budget
appropriations, warrants and cash availability, processes the transactions and issues checks. It
automatically generates expenditure accounts, enables bank reconciliation and prepares standardized
reports required by the Ministry of Finance. The primary modules of the system have been
implemented at 17 sites encompassing all ministries. However, at present the system is mainly



36
operational at ministry head quarters, where spending unit transactions are generally processed. Two
elements of the system functionality have been developed but not implemented so far. These are (a)
the Commitment Control module that will enable the ministry to record commitments and
subsequently check for the existence of a prior commitment before authorizing a payment; and, (b) a
Consolidation module that will enable a consolidation of information from spending agency systems
to a central data base and automatic production of overall budget execution reports for the MOF.
These modules are expected to be commissioned shortly. Several agencies operate an automated
payroll system. They use this system to calculate the total amounts for pay and emoluments due to
their employees in a given month. The FMIS then processes this as a payment request and produces a
check for the agency to cover its payroll. A budget preparation module was planned under ARP I and
completed in the present project. This system enables the MOF to consolidate budget proposals from
spending agencies and, after a series of iterations between the MOF and spending agencies, prepare
the final government submissions for presentation to the Parliament.
By implementing the core systems mentioned above, the government has moved from a
manual budget execution and accounting system to a largely automated system. The implementation
of these systems has required the training of a large number of staff in the use of automated
accounting systems.
It has also enabled the government to get a better idea of the exact functionality that is required for
each of the areas covered by the systems modules. This has been a learning process and has required
the systems modules to be modified periodically to accommodate new requirements as these emerge
after actual use of systems. The government has reached a stage where these requirements have now
been largely firmed up.
The FMIS has resulted in improved availability of financial information to managers. It has
increased the timeliness and accuracy of financial reports, enhanced control over government bank
accounts, improved the capacity to perform internal and external audits and, has automated the labor
intensive, high volume, check issue process.
(b)   Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS):
A prototype of the HRMIS has been developed to capture and maintain data related to the
following areas: basic personal information on a civil servant; information related to his/her
education, training skills, payroll and pension related information, disciplinary actions if any,
separation from service, and the complete service record, including all personnel actions during the
course of his/ her career. The prototype has been deployed at 33 sites across all government and
contains data on about 25, 780 civil servants out of a total of about 36,000 civil servants employed by
government. Although ostensibly a prototype, the HRMIS system is already proving useful to HR
managers at both the line agency and the central levels in the performance of their functions. It has,
therefore, in effect become a production version of the HRMIS. The prototype is also being used to
establish further user requirements. It is expected that after this process is complete the current
system will be replaced by a new system that incorporates more enriched functionality and is based
on a more robust industrial strength RDBMS compared to the current paradox based platform
(iv)   Training Component:
Courses were developed at MIND in areas such as Program Budgeting, Finance for Non-
financial Managers, Accounting, Basic and Advanced Auditing Techniques, Auditing Contracts, the
Corporate Planning Process, Corporate Planning & Program Budgeting, Corporate Planning -



37
Strategies and Performance Measures, Creating a Corporate Planning Workshop, Corporate Planning
- Financial Modeling on Spreadsheets etc.. 5,000 persons were trained in Program Budgeting. 190
staff were trained in financial modeling. 830 staff in all government ministries and departments were
trained in Accounting Levels 1 & 2. 400 staff at 16 sites in 13 ministries (including the Auditor
General and Accountant General) have been trained in chart of accounts, budget structure, and new
budget execution procedures and the operation of FMIS. 15 persons were trained as FMIS Managers
(super users). 78 Auditors were trained in basic and advanced audit techniques. 38 persons were
trained in corporate planning in MIND and over 1,200 took MIND's 1/2 - 1 day workshops in use of
corporate plans. Over 25 MIND trainers and 4,000 public servants in 16 Government departments
were trained by MIND in customer service improvement. 18 participants from 14 ministries
participated in 12 week courses in Human Resource Management including analyzing staffing and
jobs, employee development, compensation and benefits, job evaluation and classification, employee
and labor relations and human resource personnel and development.
(v)   Reform Management Component:
A network, with 12 work stations, was established in the Cabinet Office to facilitate Reform
Management. Corporate Planning Manual was developed and disseminated. Strategic Planning
workshops for Corporate Planners and Permanent Secretaries were conducted. A system for regular
review and evaluation of Corporate plans has been developed and an Evaluation Committee to
evaluate Corporate Plans has been set up in the Cabinet Office. A retreat of Permanent Secretaries
was organized in October 1997 to develop strategies for the implementation and sustainability of
public sector reforms. The project Secretariat and Reform cells in the MOF and Ministry of Public
Service were adequately staffed throughout the project with an appropriate mix of local and
international consultants and GOJ staff specializing in areas such as Project Management, Financial
Management, Human Resource Development and Computerization. To enable GOJ to deal with the
Year 2000 problem, a consultant was engaged to review the extent of the problem and recommend a
strategy. A Secretariat for the purpose has been established at the Cabinet Office.
(III) PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
The project has spent US$ 10.2 million out of US$ 11.5 million. The remaining expenditure
has been committed and the whole loan amount is expected to be disbursed. Procurements and
disbursements under the project have been done in line with Bank Guidelines. Project audits are up
to date, with unqualified opinions. Some reallocation of expenditures between categories is likely to
be necessary. The PCU will submit the reallocation request for Bank approval by July 10, 1998.
(IV) FUTURE ACTIONS
To make the most of the achievements of the project and ensure their sustainability, various
actions need to be taken in the future. Some of these are or could be covered under the Public Sector
Management Project (PSMP). These actions are summarized below:
Continue to emphasize the importance of making Corporate Plans, Annual Operational Plans
and Program Budgets, an integral part of day to day public sector management. Create
incentives for managers to encourage them to do so.



38
*     Continue the process of evaluation of Corporate Plans and Operational Plans with reference to
Program Budgets, to improve their linkages.
*     Improve the capacity of ministries to monitor and evaluate performance of attached
departments and agencies with reference to the Corporate Plans, Operational Plans and the
Program Budgets. This would be done for three pilot ministries covered under PSMP.
Parallel initiatives would be needed for the other ministries in Stage II of the modernization
process.
*     Continue training of senior managers, finance managers and staff engaged in finance,
planning, monitoring and evaluation functions. Training in financial management could be
carried out under the FMIS component of the PSMP. Training in corporate planning would
need to be done by MIND with its own resources.
*     Improve underlying financial management and accounting skills of staff by recruiting
qualified staff or seconding staff to UWI.
*     Improve monitoring by MOF of submission of financial statements by ministries to reduce
delays. Strengthen Financial Management Division in the Ministry of Finance. This could be
done under the FMIS component of the PSMP.
*     Continue emphasis on increasing the quality of service provided by public sector entities to
their customers. GOJ has targeted 25 additional agencies for customer service improvement
during FY99. Under the PSMP, 17 pilot agencies would be converted into Executive
Agencies. One of the primary objectives of this conversion is to improve quality of service.
GOJ has decided to eventually convert most of its policy implementation agencies into
executive agencies based on the experience gained in the pilot entities included in the PSMP.
These entities would have significant autonomy in personnel management, including
recruitment, firing and setting salaries in order to achieve agreed performance targets. This
would help in bringing salaries of a bulk of GOJ staff in line with the market, in a phased
manner.
*     Implement the Commitment Control and Consolidation modules of the FMIS. Also
commission the system in all spending units so that payment/ receipt transactions can be
directly processed at these units. Develop a consolidated data base containing Government
wide financial data with a Web interface and user friendly data access tools that form a part of
an Executive Information System for finance managers in Government. This is proposed to be
done under the Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP).
Develop a more full function budget preparation system. This is being done by the MOF
through Fiscal Services Limited (FSL).
*     Implement the project data base being developed by the PIOJ to capture data on capital
projects. The data on expenditures already incurred on these projects resides in the FMIS data
base. An electronic link is planned between these systems to enable the Government to
monitor both the financial and the physical aspects of these projects.
*     Procure a pay roll system to link the FMIS and HRMIS. This would be done under the
PSMP.
*     Review the FMIS experience and develop a long term systems strategy for the future. This
would define the next generation software requirements including the degree of integration
required between various systems modules developed under this project and related systems
such as the tax and customs administration systems. It would also determine the most
appropriate implementation strategy for putting these systems in place, including the
possibility of using off-the-shelf application software for some of the functions.



39
*     Complete the review of the HRMIS that is currently underway. Since the prototype system
has enabled the government to get a better idea of the real user requirements, it is an
appropriate time to investigate whether an off-the-shelf package could be used to provide the
enhanced functionality required from the new system.
*     Further strengthening the Internal Audit function through the Public Sector Modernization
Project (PSMP).
An Operational Plan for the implement phase of the project needs to be prepared by the
government indicating therein how project initiatives are proposed to be supported and sustained. it
was agreed that GOJ would submit the Operational Plan to the Bank by July 31, 1998.
(V) PREPARATION OF THE ICR
The mission discussed the preparation of the ICR with GOJ. Details of the contents of the
ICR and its format were also provided. It was agreed that the Bank would send its part of the draft
ICR to GOJ by September 30, 1998 and GOJ would likewise send its part of the draft ICR to the
Bank by the same date. The ICR would be finalized by December 31, 1998.



40
Annex 1
Project Review
Jamaica: Financial And Program Management Improvement Project: Loan 3386-Jm
I.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTCOMPONENT
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
(i) Introduce Program    Introduce Program    *  Improved           Expected outputs met.   .  Improve quality of
Budgeting:            Budgeting that would:      government         Program budgeting         Operational Plans
*  Clearly define         capability to prepare  introduced through out  (OP) prepared by
objectives and         informative,       Central government        ministries and
expenditures of        realistic, and timely  since 1994/95. New    departments to
government             budgets that reflect   budget structure fully  tightly link
programs, projects     available resources   entrenched in all      Corporate Plans
and activities;        and national       ministries and            (CP) and the
*  Standardize program    priorities;        departments. Program       Program Budget
classifications for  *  Clear indication of   budget gives details of  (PB).
similar activities    the purpose for     recurrent and capital
under recurrent and    which funds are    expenditures according   *  Emphasize
capital budgets;       allocated;         to ministry, department,    importance of CP,
*  Highlight allocations  *  Improved ability to   program, sub-program,  OP and PB as
for important          prioritize allocation   project and activity. In  managerial tools.
programs;              of scarce funds;   addition, it provides
*  Provide a common    .  Improved control of  details of the nature of   *  Improve capacity of
code for programs      ministries over funds expenditure through    ministries to monitor
relevant to several    transferred to     object codes (old line    and evaluate
ministries so that     statutory bodies and  item classifications).  performance of



41
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES            EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                  RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
funds provided for    autonomous         Further, it contains a    attached departments
such programs are     institutions.      narrative description of  and agencies with
clearly identifiable;                    the objectives, activities  reference to the
and outputs of each      Corporate Plans,
ministry, program and    Operational Plans
project. The current     and the Program
budget structure:        Budget. For three
*  Focuses attention on  pilot Ministries: the
outputs of programs   Ministry of
and projects instead  Environment and
of on inputs;         Housing, the
*  Clearly indicates to  Ministry of
Parliament, the       Transport and Works
public and            and one, as yet,
government agencies    unidentified
the purpose for       ministry, it is
which budgeted        proposed to
funds would be        strengthen
used;                 monitoring and
*  Enables ministries    evaluation capacity
and MOF to           through the Public
prioritize            Sector
expenditures by       Modernization
providing details of  Project (PSMP).
competing programs    Other ministries will
and projects and the  follow in the Phase
levels of physical    I.
outputs expected for
a given level of   *  Continue training of
inputs;               senior managers,
* Allows more            finance managers



42
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
equitable funding of  and staff engaged in
ministries and        finance, planning,
departments and       monitoring and
avoids overfunding.   evaluation functions
*  Enhances control of    to maximize the
line ministries on the  benefits from the
results achieved by   new financial
statutory bodies and  management
autonomous             arrangements and
agencies with the      systems.
money transferred to
them.              *  Improve underlying
*  Allows aggregation     financial
of recurrent and      management and
capital expenditures  accounting skills of
of individual          staff.
programs to
facilitate evaluation.
*  Enables quick
regrouping of
budgetary
expenditures in line
with changes in
organizational
structure of the
government.
(Budget easily
adjusted and
produced on time
despite restructuring
of ministries early



43
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
this year).
*  Makes it possible for
the Auditor General
to carry out
performance audits
and 'value for
money' audits.
Over 4000 managers
and staff trained in
program budgeting and
related changes in
accounting.
(ii) Improve the      Strengthen budget       *  Sustainable program   *  Budgeting processes  .  Continue
Budget Process        process to:                budgeting system.      reviewed and           improvements in
*  Establish a more    .  Improved planning      streamlined.           linkage between
realistic budget       due to longer          Corporate Plans and    Corporate Plans
framework.             planning horizon.      Operational Plans      (CP), Operational
now required with      Plans (OP) and
budget requests.       Program Budget
(PB).
*  Improve timeliness of                      *  Timeliness of budget *  Continue training of
budget preparation.                           preparation            management and
improved. For the     staff.
last three years the
budget has been
presented in April of
each year, whereas
*  Introduce three year  .                       earlier it used to be



44
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                       OPERATIONS
rolling financial                             presented in June.
planning framework.
*  Three-year rolling
plans introduced and
Make budget ceilings                          implemented
more realistic.                               throughout
government.
*  Fiscal Policy
Management Unit
(FPMU) set up in
Ministry of Finance.
Its functions include
setting the overall
financing
framework, in line
with macro-
economic objectives,
over the medium
term, and
establishing annual
budgetary ceilings.
Twice-weekly
meetings held
between FPMU and
Cash Management
Unit (CMU) to
match revenue and
expenditure
projections and
revise ceilings.



45
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS                                       OPERATIONS
(iii) Improve          Improve classification  *  Adaptation of       *  Accounting system
Accounting             and coding of vouchers.    accounts to program    revised to adapt to
budgeting structure.   program budgeting
structure.
* New chart of
accounts developed;
*  Updated accounting   *  Updated Accounting
manual.                manual prepared.
* System upgraded,
*  Reduced lag in         comprehensive
reconciliation of      database established
non-tax revenue        facilitating better
collections.           monitoring and
collection of non-
tax revenue.
. Bank reconciliation
*  Improved               forms part of the
reconciliation of      accounting
bank accounts,         component of the
imprests and           FMIS. Monthly
advances.              accounts are
supported by bank
reconciliation.
Control over
imprests improved
as imprest accounts
need to be cleared
before they can be
replenished. The
t__   FMIS generates



46
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                        OPERATIONS
Status Reports on
advances, which also  Improve monitoring by
support the monthly   MOF of submission of
.  Improved               accounts. This      financial statements by
commitment             allows ongoing      ministries to reduce
accounting.            monitoring of       delays. Strengthen
advances and        Financial Management
enhances control.    Division in the Ministry
*  Reduced delays in                          of Finance.
monthly and annual  *  A Commitment
accounting             Control module of
statements.           the FMIS has been
developed and is
ready for
implementation.
* Timeliness of
monthly financial
statements of line
ministries improved
from average lag of
3 months before
project to an average
lag of 6 weeks,
currently. Some
agencies producing
statements within 10
days. Timeliness of
annual statements
improved for some
ministries.



47
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED                ACHIEVEMENTS   FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS                                        OPERATIONS
However, some
delays are still
experienced due to
problems unrelated
to the new program
budget structure or
the FMIS (e.g.
delays in preparing
adjustment
vouchers). In the
Accountant
General's
Department monthly
Consolidated Fund
Statements are
prepared within 2
months of end of
month, whereas
earlier they used to
take up to 3 years.
Monthly Statement
for April 1998
prepared. Annual
Consolidated Fund
Statements prepared
within 6 months of
year closing, as
against 3 years
before. Public Debt
Statements available
on line.



48
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES               EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS    FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                      RESULTS                                        OPERATIONS
(iv) Strengthen Cash    *  Review Warrants                             *  Warrant system
Management                 System and introduce                            reviewed and
operational                                     adjusted. FMIS
improvements.                                   provides a better
basis to make cash
allocations.
Strengthen Cash
Management Unit.                            *  Cash Management
Unit strengthened
through
reclassification and
regarding of posts,
training in use of
computers, closer
working
relationships with
line ministries for
adjustment and
monitoring of cash
flows, improved
*  Strengthen Treasury                             match between
Operations.                                     revenue and
expenditure
projections by the
FPMU and
availability of FMIS
reports on actual
expenditures.
Staff of Accountant
General's



49
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   ' FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS                                       OPERATIONS
*  Improve                Department
predictability of cash  provided on-the-job
flows.                 training in FMIS and
*  Improve matching of    financial
the frequency and      management. Wide
timeliness of          Area Network
releases of funds      developed to enable
with project           consolidation of
implementation         accounts at the -
needs.                 AGD. System for
managing Short
Term Loans
acquired and
Comnmonwealth
Debt Management
system CSDRMS
being installed
through GOJ funds
. Cash management
will improve further
with the
implementation of
the Consolidation
and Commitment
Control modules.
Cash flow
difficulties still
experienced due to
constraints imposed
by exogenous



50
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS                                       OPERATIONS
macro-economic
factors.
(v) Improve Financial   Streamline budgeting,                         External Finance Unit
Management of          accounting and                                 (EFU) created in
External Assistance    monitoring of external                         Ministry of Finance to
assistance                                     monitor and prioritize
project expenditures.
*  Manual on           *  Manual developed
internationally        and being
funded projects.      implemented.
*  Integration of special *  Special accounts
accounts with         integrated with
general accounting     general accounting
system.                system. Procedures
for opening and
operation of special
accounts
standardized across
projects.
*  Improved reports on  *  Standardized
externally funded      procedures for
projects.              processing of
reimbursement
claims introduced.
Claims vetted and
forwarded by EFU.
* Significant
improvement in



51
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES             EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                   RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
financial reporting of
extemally financed
projects.
*  More timely
auditing.
*  Improvement in
timeliness of release
of funds for project
expenditures.
*  PIOJ developing
Project Databank
that would be linked
with FMIS. This
would further
enhance monitoring
of project
performance.
(vi) Increase Delegation  * Improve delegation    * Revised financial    *  Delegation of
of Financial Decision-   of financial powers to    regulations an     financial powers
making Powers            match autonomy of      instructions.         increased.
line ministries to                           Handbook of
increased                                    delegated powers in
accountability under                        financial
program budgeting.                           management         Further strengthening of
produced.          the Intemal Audit
function being done
.  Strengthen internal   .  Establishment of  *  Internal Audit    through the Public
audit arrangements in    strengthened internal    Directorate in  Sector Modernization
ministries.           audit units.           Ministry of Finance   Project (PSMP).
and internal audit



52
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
units in line
ministries and
departments
established. A     Accelerate training to
separate           match new job functions
classification for  and new systems.
internal auditors
developed to attract
and retain skilled
staff.
Strengthen project    *  Upgraded positions   *  Finance and
monitoring             and remuneration for    Accounting group
mechanisms.            Finance and            positions reclassified
Accounting group.     and upgraded.
Duties and required
qualifications
enhanced. Principal
Financial Officer
positions created in
Ministries.
PIOJ periodically
reviews project
implementation.
Financial aspects of
projects monitored
by EFU. Project
Databank being
developed.



53
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS                                      OPERATIONS
(vii) Improve Financial Improve system of     Financial reports     Done.
Reporting             financial reporting and    standardized and
flow of information to    codified. Supported by
eliminate duplicate    FMIS.
returns and increase
timeliness of reports. I



54
II.  PROGRAMMANAGEMENTCOMPONENT
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS           COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS/                                     FUTURE
OUTCOME                                      OPERATIONS
(i) Introduction of   (i) Recruit staff for   (i) Efficiency and    Corporate plans are now  Linkages between the
Corporate Planning in 8  corporate planning in  effectiveness of selected  prepared on a three year  corporate plan,
ministries (MOF, MPS,  each ministry.         ministries improved by   basis for all ministries    operational plans and
Construction, Education,                     improving managers'    and departments. Initial  the budget need to be
Health, Agriculture,  (ii) Introduce Corporate  ability to define the  targets, therefore,  strengthened and
Industry, Production and  Planning.          institution's objectives   exceeded.          managers (PSs) need to
Commerce, and                                 & priorities, develop                        make this a priority
Information and                               structures to support  Plans are updated
Culture,) & related                           program delivery, and    quarterly, exceeding the
critical SBs                                  link priority areas to the  annual requirement.
budget
Evaluation Committee
(ii) Rationalization of    including
relationship between  representatives from the
ministries & SBs      concerned agency,
Cabinet Office, MOF
(iii) Staff trained in  and MIND review
development of        corporate and
corporate plans and their operational plans, which
use                   when well done, can
easily identify budget
priorities
(iii) Include a review of                     38 people trained in
statutory bodies (SBs)                        corporate planning in
critical to the ministries                    MIND and over 1,200
as part of the Corporate                      have taken MIND's 1/2
Plan. On this basis                           - I day workshops in use I



55
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS   COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS/                                     FUTURE
OUTCOME                                      OPERATIONS
rationalize SBs                               of corporate plans.
(including possible
consolidation or                              Rationalization of SBs is
privatization) by:                            continuing under the
*  removing                                   auspices of NIBJ and the
unnecessary overlap                        Public Sector
of activities;                             Modernization Project.
*  establishing an                            Corporate planning has
accountable mgt                           informed this process to
structure;                                 some extent.
*  introducing an MIS
to enable the timely
provision of
infornation to the
relevant ministries;
*  improving
operational efficiency
*  introducing cost
recovery principles
for those SBs
engaged in
commercial activities
(ii) Improve Over-the-  (i) Identify priority  Counter-act perceptions  13 agencies were    The emphasis on
Counter Services to the   agencies for review of    of deterioration in public initially selected to pilot  increasing the quality of
general public        their over-the-counter    services and contribute  the Customer Service    service provided by
services               to the mobilization of    Improvement Program.  public sector entities has
support for the                              been a primary
(ii) Design and        government's overall    Customer perception   motivation for GOJ's



56
COMPONENT              ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                     RESULTS/                                      FUTURE
OUTCOME                                       OPERATIONS
implement measures to   administrative reform  survey, conducted      decision to convert
improve the efficiency    program              before and 'after the  certain departments into
and effectiveness within                       project interventions,    Executive Agencies.
selected government                            reveal increased       This is being done under
agencies                                       customer satisfaction  the PSMP.
with services rendered
in high visibility     An additional 25
agencies such as Inland   agencies have been
Revenue, Customs, Post  targeted for customer
Office and National    service improvement
Insurance              during FY99.
Over 4,000 public
servants have been
trained by MIND to
date, including
sensitization of
managers and staff to
the need for efficiency
and effectiveness (turn-
around time shortened in
most agencies) and
customer needs
The project financed the
training of 25 MIND
trainers.
Citizens charters have
been developed and,
together with the



57
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES             EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS   COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                   RESULTS/                                     FUTURE
OUTCOME                                      OPERATIONS
training, have
contributed to the
success of the program.
(iii) Formulate and   (i) Decentralize       (i) Shorten the time   (i) Some
implement a program to  personnel recruitment    required to take   decentralization has
attract and retain    procedures to line     decisions and actions    taken place, e.g. for
qualified professional,   agencies -- in order to    concerning promotions,  disciplinary actions and
managerial, and       develop more flexible    recruitment, and     appointments of support
technical (PMT) staff.   appointments procedures, creation of new posts .   services staff. Some
the PSC will review the                      line agencies have been
1961 Public Service                          trained by MIND in
Regulations with a view                      personnel classification
to standardizing selection                   (management analysts
methods and delegating                       and job analysts in
decision-making to PSs   (ii) A more transparent  anticipation of
system with factors   additional delegation.
quantified
(ii) Introduce a points                      (ii) System introduced   Coopers and Lybrand
factor evaluation system                     in January 1993, first at  are currently conducting
based on an Australian                       the senior executive   a study with a view to
model                                        level and later at the  recommending to
level of Senior       Cabinet a Job
Managers, Legal       Evaluation and
Officers, and Program    Management System
Managers; about 30-    (JEMS). All PMT need
40% of PMT staff are   to be covered.
covered on this system.



58
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS   COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS/                                     FUTURE
OUTCOME                                      OPERATIONS
(iii) Prepare and      (iii) Reduce flight of    (iii) PMT salary scales   17 entities will be
implement new salary    talent from the public    were adjusted in 1990    converted into executive
scales for Professional,  sector by making    and 1994. Some PMT    agencies whose CEO's,
Managerial and         compensation           categories are now on    under performance
Technical staff linked to  competitive with   par with market rates,   contracts, will have
implementation of new    parastatals and the  such as legal officers,   significant autonomy in
post classifications   private sector         and communications     recruitment (including
specialist, but many are  outside the civil service)
not, particularly     and setting salaries in
computer specialists,    order to achieve agreed
engineers, scientists, and  performance targets.
health/medical        This effort is supported
specialists.          by the PSMP. Salaries
of staff in the Executive
(iv) Implement the new                        (iv) A decision was   Agencies are expected
classifications and their                    taken to implement     to be adjusted in line
compensation package                          Corporate Plans       with market conditions.
only in those ministries                      throughout government.
that have initiated                           Therefore, new
implementation of their                       classification system
corporate plan and                            implemented in all
completed the                                 ministries and
organizational reforms                        departments where
I required under the plan   I_relevant.



59
IIL   Computer Component
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES             EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS          FUTURE
OBJECTIVES                                   RESULTS                                     OPERATIONS
(a) Set up a Financial    (a) Carry out functional   *  The core accounting  The design and  The core system
Management            requirements analysis;    system will give the  development of the core  modules will need to be
Information System    (b) Procure/develop       line agencies the  expenditure           extended to spending
(FMIS) to support the    application software and  capacity for efficient management system  units so that payment/
budgeting, accounting    procure hardware;      processing of the    incorporating the   receipt transactions can
and cash management   (c) Set up FMIS at a set  large number of    required functionality    be directly processed at
processes in the MOF,   of designated pilot sites;  payment and receipt  has been completed.    these units. This is
the MSP and selected    and                     transactions that                         proposed to be done
line ministries.      (d) Replicate system      they encounter as    The primary modules of  under the Public Sector
government wide.          part of their day to   the system have been    Modernization Project
day operations.   implemented at 17 sites  (PSMP).
The system should have                       encompassing all
the following basic    * The system will     ministries.           A commitment control
functionality:            simultaneously                           system needs to be
record these       However, at present the  instituted and the
(a) It should enable line  transactions and  system is mainly      commitment module
agencies to record        related financial data operational at ministry   that has been developed
budget appropriations    in system data bases  head quarters, other than  needs to be implemented
according to the new     that will be        a few exceptions, where  at spending ministries to
program budget            accessible both at   the modules have also   enable the ministries to
classification structure;  the Ministry and the  been implemented at    record commitments and
record the issue of       MOF level. Ready   subordinate spending    check for the existence
warrants and releases of  availability of timely  units.           of a prior commitment
funds from the MOF for    and accurate                             before authorizing a
line agency programs and    financial information  Spending unit   payment. The Financial
projects; record         from system data    transactions are      Secretary indicated that
commitments; record       bases will lead to an  generally processed at  the Commitment
payment orders and, after    improved capacity    ministry headquarters.   Control module would
checking for each of the  for financial                            be implemented shortly.



60
above limits, prepare    management and     Two elements of the
checks for government    decision making at  functionality have not   The consolidation
creditors.               the line agencies and  been implemented these  module that is currently
the MOF. This     are: (a) The           under development
(b) It should provide    includes the capacity  Commitment control    needs to be implemented
agencies the information  for prioritization of  module that will enable  at the center to enable
required to reconcile    resource allocations, the ministry to record   the MOF and other
their bank accounts;     cash management,   commitments and       central agencies to have
budgetary control    subsequently check for   direct access to
(c) It should enable     and monitoring, and  the existence of a prior   expenditure information
Ministries and line      fiscal reporting.  commitment before    recorded at the spending
agencies to prepare the                     authorizing a payment;   ministries. The technical
financial reports required  * Timely production   and, (b) A consolidation  hardware infrastructure
for the management of    of financial and   module that will enable  required for this is now
their financial resources;  accounting reports   a consolidation of  in place and the
required by law will  information from   necessary software
(d) It should enable the  improve           spending agency       required for the
Ministries to produce    accountability and   systems to a central data  consolidation of
MOF prescribed           transparency of    base and automatic    information from
monthly and annual       public expenditures.  producnon of overall    agency systems is
financial statements                        budget execution reports nearing completion. A
/reports in a timely                        for the MOF. At present consolidated data base
manner to enable the                        these reports are     containing Government
MOF to determine the                        produced by the agency  wide financial data is
overall government wide                     systems and           expected to be available
status of budget                            consolidated manually   within the next few
execution;                                  at the MOF. The       months. A Web
Commitment Control   interface and user
(e) It should periodically                  module has been       friendly data access
transfer                                    developed and is ready   tools are planned for this
aggregate/transaction                       for installation. The  data base. This will be
data from the agency                        Consolidation module is part of an Executive
systems to a central                        under testing.        Information System for



61
system to enable the                                              finance managers in
central agencies such as                    Several agencies operate  Government.
the MOF/Accountant                          an automated payroll
General (AG) to monitor                     system. They use this   A more full function
the overall status of                       system to calculate the   budget preparation
budget execution on a                       total amounts for pay    system is now being
government wide basis                       and emoluments due to  planned by the MOF.
and to provide other                        their employees in a  This will give, in
agencies such as the                        given month. The FMIS  addition to the
Auditor General access                     then processes this as a   consolidation features,
to government wide                          payment request and   spending ministries and
transaction data to enable                  produces a check for the  the MOF enhanced
them to carry out the                       agency to cover its   capacity to develop and
auditing function.                          payroll.              analyze the budget
proposals and carry out
A budget preparation    "what if " analysis based
module was planned   on alternative scenarios,
under ARP I and      prior to finalizing the
completed in the present budget.
project. This system
enables the MOF to    This system will need to
consolidate budget    have facilities to down
proposals from spending  load the approved
agencies and after a  budget data to the FMIS
series of iterations  after it has been
between the MOF and   approved by Parliament.
spending agencies,
prepare the final     A project data base is
government submissions being developed by the
for presentation to the    PIOJ to capture data on
Parliament.          capital projects. The
data on expenditures
A basic debt          already incurred on



62
management system was these projects resides in
implemented under ARP  the FMIS data base. An
I.                    electronic link is
planned between these
By implementing the    systems to enable the
core systems mentioned  Government to monitor
above, the government   both the financial and
has moved from a      the physical aspects of
manual budget         these projects.
execution and
accounting system to a   These modules and
largely automated     continuing
system. The           enhancements to the
implementation of these  current FMIS are
systems has required the  planned to be
training of a large   implemented under the
number of staff in the    follow on PSMP project.
use of automated
accounting systems    Some subsidiary special
It has also enabled the    purpose systems
government to get a   modules are planned:
better idea of the exact   Amongst these are a
functionality that is  payroll system for
required for each of the   agencies who do not
areas covered by the  currently have an
systems modules. This   automated payroll; a
has been a learning   more full function debt
process and has required  management system and
the systems modules to  some specific systems
be modified periodically  for the Accountant
to accommodate new    General such as a loan
requirements as these    management system.
_____________ ___ _I_ emerge after actual use   The AGs office intends



63
of systems. The       to implement the
government has reached  CSDRMS package for
a stage where these   Debt management and
requirements have now   has contracted for a loan
been largely firmed up.  accounting system.
On completion of these
systems the Government
would have a suite of
systems modules to
support most of the
business processes in the
fiscal management area.
It would be appropriate
at this stage for the
government to step back
and review the FMIS
experience and develop
a long term systems
strategy for the future.
This would define the
next generation software
requirements including
the degree of integration
required between
various systems
modules developed
under this project and
related systems such as
the tax and customs
administration systems.
It would also determine



64
the most appropriate
implementation strategy
for putting these systems
in place, including an
examination of the
possibility of using off
the shelf application
software for some of the
functions.
(b) Set up a Human    (a) Develop a prototype   Give human resource    A prototype system has  Although ostensibly a
resources Management   system to determine user  managers a tool for  been developed to     prototype, the HRMIS
Information system    requirements;           HRM and decision       capture and maintain    system is already
(HRMIS) in the MPS                            making, including the    data related to the  proving useful to HR
and selected line     (b) Implement system at  facilities for maintaining  following areas: Basic    managers at both the
ministries             a set of designated sites;  an up to date and  personal information on  line agency and the
complete record of    a civil servant;       central levels in the
(c) Validate system    information on civil    information related to    performance of their
functionality against user  servants over the course  his/her education,  functions. It has
requirements at pilot  of their careers. This    training skills, payroll   therefore in effect
sites;                 will assist HR managers  and pension related  become a production
in their functions related  information, disciplinary  version of the HRMIS.
(d) improve functionality  to career planning,  actions if any,
to obtain better fit with   placement, training, and  separation from service,  However, the system is
user requirements;     in carrying out other  and the complete service  based on the concept of
personnel actions.    record including all   recording the
(e) develop / procure                         personnel actions during  information related to
production version;                           the course of his/ her    personnel actions after
career.               they occur. HR
(d) Replicate system                                                 managers at the center
government wide.                              The prototype has been   and line agencies are
deployed at 33 sites   now looking for
across all government    enhancements that will



65
and contains data on  enable the system to be
about 25, 780 civil   the primary tool for
servants out of a total of  them to carry out the
about 36,000 civil    business processes
servants employed by    related to personnel
government.           management and for the
production and
The prototype is being   simultaneous capture
used to establish further  and recording of all
user requirements.    related information for
these processes.
It is expected that after   On the technical side
this process is complete  the team responsible for
the current system will  the system would like to
be replaced by a new  migrate to a more robust
system that incorporates  industry standard data
more enriched         base like ORACLE or
functionality and is    INFORMIX from the
based on a more robust  PARADOX data ba!se
industrial strength   that it currently uses.
RDBMS compared to
the current paradox   Future developments on
based platform        the HRMIS system are
to be done during the
course of the PSMP. A
review of the HRMIS is
currently underway.
The current thinking is
to custom develop the
enhanced system on the
new technical platform.



66
The Bank teamn feels
that in view of the fact
that the prototype
system has enabled the
government to get a
better idea of the real
user requirements, it is
an appropriate time to
investigate whether an
off the shelf package
could be used to provide
the enhanced
functionality required
from the new system
and to compare the
costs and time that
would be required for
customs development
with that required for
the purchase and
implementation of off
the shelf software. This
will enable the
government to make a
more informed choice as
to the future course of
action in this regard.



67
IV. TRAINING COMPONENT
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED               ACHIEVEMENTS           COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS/                                      FUTURE
OUTCOME                                       OPERATIONS
Train senior and mid-    (i) Seminars to       Review of general     Staff training and
level managers,       familiarize Cabinet,    management courses    familiarization
computer staff, and   MOP, and PSs with the   and establishment of    workshops for Sr.
financial and accounting  objectives and scope of   modular component for  Managers essential to
personnel civil servants  the reform.         an Executive           the reform effort were
to facilitate                                 Development Program    carried out as planned.
administrative reformn in: (ii) Classes for senior
managers, computer     Review of curriculum    Courses were developed
staff, personnel staff,  of Government training   at MIND in areas such
senior and mid-level   organizations; design of  as Program Budgeting,
managers of selected   new curriculum,        Finance for Non-
development ministries,  including in computer   financial Managers,
financial managers and   training; installation of   Basic and Advanced
staff.                 computer facilities and   Auditing Techniques,
initiation of computer    Auditing Contracts, The
(iii) Strengthening the    training program for  Corporate Planning
Administrative Staff   accounting staff       Process, Corporate
College (ASC) and                             Planning & Program
Financial Accounts                            Budgeting, Corporate
College of Training                           Planning - Strategies
(FACT) [which later                           and Performance
became part of MIND] to                       Measures, Creating a
deliver general                               Corporate Planning
management courses, and                       Workshop, Corporate
classes in program                            Planning - Financial
budgeting, program                            Modeling on
management, accounting,                       Spreadsheets
I and computer skills



68
In addition, training was
offered on site as well as
at the ARP and HRMIS
premises as indicated
l___   _below
(i) Corporate Planning  (i) Corporate Planning   (i) Compietion of 3 year All ministries and
Workshops and project   corporate plans     departments now
related on-the-job                          prepare Corporate Plans
training carried out in                     and use Program
development ministries                      Budgeting.
and other ministries  (ii) Development of
"how to" skills;      38 people trained in
(ii) Core training in  translation of corporate  corporate planning in
corporate planning    plans into operational    MIND and over 1,200
methodology for 560   plans; development of   have taken MIND's 1/2
persons; Financial    performance standards   - 1 day workshops in use
modeling for 36                             of corporate plans.
participants; performance
measurement for 30
participants; training of
trainers/resources    (iii) Manual as reference
persons (10) -- MIND  document
Corporate Planning
(iii) Update Corporate                      Manual developed and
Planning Manual                             disseminated.
(ii) Customer Service   (i) Evaluation of past  Enhanced quality of  Over 4,000 public
training              training (2,700       service to customers and  servants in 16
questionnaires)       establishment of      Government
organizational structures departments have been
(ii) Systems and Program  to support the reform:    trained by MIND to
development in agencies                     date, including
and development of    (i) Increased customer  sensitization of



69
training aids (local video) satisfaction     managers and staff to
the need for efficiency
(iii) Consultancy to  (ii) Speedier delivery of and effectiveness (turn-
develop automated      service               around time shortened in
systems for service                          most agencies) and
delivery              (iii) Institutionalization  customer needs
of continuous efficiency
(iv) Training in      improvement            The project financed the
efficiency/productivity                      training of 25 MIND
methodology in select    (iv) Material developed  trainers.
agencies and           to enhance quality and
development of         increase volume of    Improved customer
Efficiency and Training   training           perception indicated by
Committees                                   surveys.
(iii) Program         (i) Training in job    (i) Improved           18 participants from 14
Management            evaluation and         competence of MDD to   ministries
classification         classify all occupational  participated in 12 week
groups                courses in Human
Resource Management
(ii) Training of       (ii) Improved         including analyzing
management analysts    competence of MDD to  staffing and jobs,
undertake organizational employee development,
development in agencies compensation and
benefits, job evaluation
(iii) Consultancy to                         and classification,
review human resource   (iii) Human Resources   employee and labor
policy                 Policy updated        relations and human
resource personnel and
(iv) Organization      (iv) Change           development
Development            implementation plan
intervention for MDD   developed and team
I building and change    I



70
management skills
acquired
(v) TQM seminar for
MDD staff
(v) Understanding of
TQM philosophy and
principles                                             _
(iv) Program          Program budgeting and                         Total 5,000 persons
Budgeting             management workshops                          trained in Program
for ministry staff to be                     Budgeting
held by Senior Financial
and Program                                  In addition, 190 staff
Management Advisors                          from all ministries and
with support from                            departments have been
Training Advisors during                     trained in program
the design and                               budgeting and financial
implementation phases of                     modeling
program budgeting.
All finance staff in all
ministries and
departments now
prepare Corporate Plans
and use Program
Budgeting
(v) Accounting and    Operational training to be                    830 staff in all
Auditing              conducted for accounts                        government ministries
staff by the training                        and departments have
advisors, staff of FACT                      been trained in
and local consultants in                     Accounting Levels 1 &
order to improve skills in                   2.
key a,pects of
I accounting operations.                      78 Auditors have been



71
trained in basic and
advanced audit
techniques, focusing on
value for money rather
than compliance and
impact and benefit of
expenditure and better
internal financial
controls
(vi) Computer skills    Computer training to                      The FMIS has been     The Public Sector
related to Financial  provide necessary skills                    commissioned and is up  Management Project
Management           for the government to                        and operating in all  (PSMP) will provide
Information System    implement, operate and                      ministries and in two  continued training, as
(FMIS)                maintain the HRMIS                          departments.           needed
400 staff at 16 sites in
13 ministries (including
the Auditor General and  The ARP is in the
Accountant General)    process of providing
have been trained in  MIND with additional
chart of accounts,    computer equipment to
budget structure, and  be in place beginning of
new budget execution    September 1998 to
procedures and the    enable further training in
operation of the     the FMIS.
integrated financial
management system
(200 in-house at ARP
Headquarters and 200
on site).
15 persons were trained
as FMIS Managers
(super users)



72
(vii) Computer and     Computer training to   A 12 week course in    A prototype of the     The Public Sector
other skills related to  provide necessary skills   Human Resource   HRMIS has been         Management Project
Human Resource         for the government to  Management for 18      commissioned at 33     (PSMP) will provide
Management             implement, operate and   participants from 14  sites                 continued training, as
Information System     maintain the HRMIS     ministries/agencies was                       needed
(HRMIS)                                       held at MIND in 1997    Training successfully
delivered
Between July 1996 and
May 1997 four courses   The computer
in HRMIS fundamentals  Consultants from
were held at MIND for   HRMIS reported
39 persons and one    problems with software
HRMIS Executive       in that the computer
Workshop was held for  hardware in the
25 persons             laboratory could not
support the program.
122 persons given 2   This resulted in a high
weeks training in     degree of down time
HRMIS training over 3-  because of technical
4 days period.        problems. This was the
final HRMIS course
held in the lab.



73
V. REFORM ALNA GEMENT COMPONENT
COMPONENT             ACTIVITIES              EXPECTED              ACHIEVEMENTS    COMMITMENT/
OBJECTIVES                                    RESULTS/                                     FUTURE
OUTCOME                                      OPERATIONS
Strengthen
project/reform
implementation and
monitoring capabilities
(i) Office of the PM  (i) Provision of        (i) Improved          Network with 12 work
(reform at all levels)  consultancy services and  coordination of policy    stations established in
installation of a computer direction          Cabinet Office to
system to facilitate on                       facilitate Reform
line, time management of                      Management. Policy
reform activities                             Review and Monitoring
Unit on network.
(ii) Closer monitoring of
(ii) Dissemination of  the implementation and   Corporate Planning
policy g uidelines; review  use of the Corporate  Manual developed and
and analysis of corporate  plan in the budget  disseminated. Strategic
plans in conjunction with  process            Planning workshops for
PSs and Ministries                            Corporate Planners and
Permanent Secretaries
conducted.
(iii) A more centralized
(iii) Develop and      approach to the        System to regular
implement an MIS for    evaluation of         review and evaluation of
Corporate Plans and    achievements and       Corporate plans
evaluation of the relevant information on     developed. An
reports                constraints            Evaluation Committee
to evaluate Corporate
Plans set up.



74
(iv) Management of     (iv) Creation of       Consultant's report on
Year 2000 automated    machinery to manage    the effect of the Y2K
systems review and     Millennium (Year 200)   problem on GOJ
update.                information technology   Hardware and Software
problems              prepared. Secretariat to
deal with problem set
up.
(v) Hosting of Retreat   (v) Improvement of   Retreat organized in
for Permanent Secretaries implementation of   October 1997.
and Senior Managers    reform activities.
(ii) ARP Secretariat    Project Manager,      All units fully staffed    ARP Secretariat and
and Reform cells in the  technical, and       with international    Reform cells in the
MOF and MPS           administrative staff to be  consultants and GOJ  MOF and MPS were
recruited              staff.                 adequately staffed
throughout project with
a successful mix of local
and international
consultants and GOJ
staff specializing in
areas such as Project
Management, Financial
Management, Human
Resource Development
and Computerization.
The ARP office was
responsible for the
recruitment of
consultants in
consultation with and
approval of IMCAR,
OPM, Reform Cells and



75
the relevant PSs. This
arrangement was
successfully carried out
and key areas of the
reform were completed.
There was good access
to decision-makers.
Good linkages between
ARP and reform cells
were established.



76
APPENDIX B
CABINET OFFICES
1 DEVON ROAD
P.O. BOX 272.
KINGSTON 6. JAMAICA
1998 December 2
Mr Jit Gill
Public Sector Management Specialist
Poverty Reduction & Economic Management
Latin America & the Caribbean Region
The World Bank - Room 1-7-101
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr Gill
FPMIP (Loan 3386A-JM)
Enclosed is revised draft (November 1998) of our Section of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the above-mentioned project along with comments on the section prepared by
your office.
It is suggested that you send us a copy of the full report for a further review before the final
document is produced.
Please do not hesitate to contact us if there are any further queries or clarification required.
Yours sincerely
CABINET OFFICE
Kirby L Clarke
Director Information Systems
& Special Projects
Encl
cc    Permanent Secretary/Cabinet Secretary
Mr Errol Graham - Local World Bank Office



77
APPENDIX B
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM PROGRAMME
Project Completion Report
on the Financial & Programme Management Improvement Project (Loan 3386A JM)
September 1991 - June 1998
This report summarises the Government's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
and includes contribution from the five (5) subprojects under the FPMIP. The format is in
keeping with the World Bank's guidance on Government's contribution to the ICR
Project design
Based on the experience of the first phase (ARP I) where the design had been all-inclusive and
all- embracing, which limited to a great extent, any measurable achievement, definite attempts
were made to make ARP II more specific. Emphasis was, therefore, centred around areas of the
project that were considered urgent and would have greater positive impact on the operations of
government, and the public at large. Attention was focused on improvements in financial
management; computerisation of the financial and human resource management information
systems; the quality of service offered by the agencies interfacing directly with the public; and
the implementation of the corporate/strategic planning methodology.
The objectives complemented the efforts started under ARP I as activities needed to be
continued/completed, especially in the area of (i) planning; (ii) budgeting and accounting and
(iii) computerisation where it was becoming increasingly difficult for the Central Government
to produce meaningful budgets without proper planning; to process the ever-increasing volume
of transactions and prepare timely, adequate and accurate financial information using a manual
system. So too was the urgent need for improvement in the areas of service to the public as the
image of the Public Service was less than desired.
The Project
Support for the government's effort in order to improve the efficiency of financial and human
resources management in the central organization - was effectively covered under the six sub-
projects/components, namely Reform Management; Programme Management Reform;
Financial Management Reform; Computerisation; Training; and the ARP Administration.
Activities under these subprojects were contained in two categories, Consultancy and Training
(Category 1) and Goods (Category 2).



78
Reform Management - This subproject sought to provide direction and management of all the
reform activities; and to strengthen project/reform implementation and monitoring capabilities.
Programme Management - focused on some of the day to day human resource management
problems such as classification and compensation, customer service improvement, and
corporate/strategic planning, and the decentralisation of some service delivery points;
Financial Management Reforms - addressed the problem of improvement of the government's
budgeting, accounting and financial management systems and operations, through the
introduction of programme budgeting; and the accounting system linked to the new budget
structure;
the Computerisation sub-project was aimed at developing computerised systems to support the
financial management information system (FMIS), as well as the human resource management
information system(HRMIS); the Training subproject sought to assist in improving the
capability of the Management Institute for National Development (MIND) - the government's
umbrella training organisation - to deliver the required training not included under the other sub
projects, for example, general management training, and also to effectively deliver reform-
related training to adequately maintain the reform efforts. The extent of the investment
envisaged, was deemed adequate for the activities that had been originally planned, but as the
implementation progressed, and priorities shifted, additional funds were required for the
Computerisation subproject. This was as a result of no funds having been provided specifically
under the Loan for HRMIS, although the activity was included under Computerisation.
Funds were re-allocated from the other subprojects to finance the additional requirements under
Computerisation, especially from Programme Management Improvement, as the consultant for
Corporate Planning was financed by the former British ODA (Overseas Development Agency)
from 1995 to 1997 and in some cases a significant amount of the reform work had to be
undertaken by GOJ staff and paid by GOJ.
PROJECT APPRAISAL
OBJECTIVES OF THE FMIS
To support the efforts of government to improve the efficiency of financial management and
human resource management in Central Government through the development and
implementation of the following:
-- a budgeting system based on programme budgeting structure and programme classification;
-- adapting/linking the accounting and cash management systems to the revised budget model;
-- computerisation - aimed to develop a FMIS to support the budget, accounting, cash
management and financial reporting processes;
-- training;
-- adjustment of administrative structures, and job classification system;
-- measures to attract and retain a cadre of technically sound accounting and financial
management personnel.



79
Project Planning and Management
A diagnostic study was not conducted to inform the project planning and implementation
process, resulting in insufficient knowledge of what was existing and future dimension of
financial management concerns. As a consequence, the original scope of the project and the
assumptions made were limited.
Corporate Planning and the required human resource infrastructure should have been
inextricably linked to the FMIS, but were not.
The logical first step to sensitize the Political Directorate and Executive Management about the
objectives of the project, the broad methodology and the benefits to be derived in order to get
them to accept the concept and drive it, did not take place.
The involvement of the Political Directorate and Executive Management was sporadic, mainly
because of the inappropriate structure that was in place to provide the support for the project.
Executive Management of the Project was characterized by extended periods of inattention by
both the government Executive and the Bank, interspersed with brief periods of intense scrutiny.
This inevitably led to the formulation of static targets and objectives, with a poorly understood
strategy for reform.
The Project's programme/project managers did not have a clear framework of coordination and
linkages due in part to the lack of a single, organic and holistic project plan. The coordination of
activities between components depended on constant efforts by these managers, rather than as a
natural consequence of the project structure.
The result was a constantly moving set of requirements during implementation which inevitably
led to delays.
The situation changed in November 1993 with the establishment of the Interministerial
Committee on Administrative Reform (IMCAR) comprising the Political Directorate and the
Executive Management which provided general policy direction and the IMCAR Working
Group under the Chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary as Head of the Civil Service giving
specific directions and guidance with the broad policy framnework set by the full committee.
The Corporate Planning process was more focused. There was involvement of the Political
Directorate and the Executive Management.
Regular meetings of the IMCAR Working Group were held to review progress and resolve the
problems leading to improved coordination between the various components.
The deficiency in skilled personnel was considered to be a serious problem. The human resource
deficiency was particularly critical in the area of finance and accounting due to a long period of
brain-drain and the Government's inability to attract skilled personnel. The implementation of
the FMIS components had to proceed despite the serious skills gap which resulted in a short-
term strategy of underfilling a number of posts in the finance and accounting group. Progress



80
towards a solution has been made as posts were upgraded, job functions re-defined, and some
positions filled. Training at the operational level, has been accelerated and this should help to
over-take the deficiency in time, however, some problems still exist at the management level a
situation which has limited the level of benefits ministries could derive from the implementation
of the system. This is being addressed by the Govemment of Jamaica through ongoing
initiatives including training of managers at MIND..
As the implementation of the project progressed it became necessary and obvious that if the
FMIS was to be effective, it would have to be implemented in all ministries and major
departments simultaneously, instead of just in the core Ministries. This was achieved.
The procurement methodology used in the Project proved to be comprehensively inadequate to
satisfy the needs of a large Information Technology implementation. The single comprehensive
purchase of equipment led to numerous problems:
Equipment became obsolete before it was installed;
Inventory became, and continues to be, a huge problem, because of insufficient space to
store equipment during it's aforementioned decline into obsolescence;
It was nearly impossible to predict exact site requirements at the time that equipment was
ordered, leading to an excess of some items, and a corresponding shortage of others;
Un-interruptable Power Supplies (UPS) are particularly problematic, because the delay
between procurement and installation damaged battery packs, which constitute 75% of
the cost of the units.
Despite the challenges however, tremendous strides have been made in the financial
management reform process. Substantial benefits have been gained from the improved systems
and we continue to build on the foundation already laid. Corporate planning was instituted in all
ministries and major departments instead of the eight (8) core ministries. The project as stated
did not stress/emphasise the importance of linking the Corporate Plan to the Budget, so although
the Plans are prepared the challenge is, to link the Budget to the Plan. This linkage can only be
achieved through the Operational Plans which must support the Corporate Plan. This aspect is
currently being addressed.
The Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) was implemented in thirty
(30) agencies instead of just the scheduled core personnel entities; and the number of agencies in
which customer service improvements were to be undertaken increased from eight (8) to twenty-
five (25) by 1997 as directed by the policy makers.
ARP Secretariat
There were several administrative changes during the period of the implementation of the
project, resulting in a more direct involvement of the Cabinet Office in the management of the
project, which proved very effective. The ARP Secretariat was left with the responsibility for
the administration of the funds, including the recruitment and maintenance of consultancy
services and procurement of goods.



81
The Cabinet Office maintained firm control on the activities of the project through frequent
meetings of the IMCAR Working Group which consisted of government officers and consultants
with responsibilities for the various areas of the reform efforts. At these meetings, progress was
assessed and problems, real or perceived, were dealt with and solutions for resolving the issues
made thus providing the device for quick problem-solving and adjustments of programmes
where and when necessary and more timely implementation of the various activities.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
As indicated, initially the project was faced with several difficulties, but under the positive
direction of the Cabinet Office, ministries, departments and agencies showed improvement
resulting in sub-projects being implemented and institutionalised. This has had a tremendous
impact on the government institutions and their operations, particularly in the financial and
human resource management areas, where it was now possible that the time to produce financial
statements was considerably reduced and human resource data already captured on the system,
now being accessible within minutes. The quality of customer service improved in many areas
resulting in a number of entities launching citizens' charter while others were in the process of
preparing charters.
The supervision carried out by the World Bank's team has shown a tremendous improvement
over the last four (4) years of the project with better collaboration and cooperation with team
members all with a view to overcoming the difficulties thus ensuring the success of the project.
November 1998



82
Project Results - Financial & Programme Management Improvement Project
Subproject     Objective               Achievements                        Benefits                Other Comments
Reform Management                 Unit established and functioning to    Closer monitoring of the preparation
monitor the implementation of reform  and use of the corporate plans in the
To provide consultancy support efforts                       budgeting process; a more
to the OPM to manage and    Year 2000 Unit established to monitor  centralised approach to the
monitor the reforms and to  Y2K compliance programmes and     evaluation of achievements and
prepare necessary policy    provide technical advice to agencies.  constraints in all areas of the
measures                                                     reforms service-wide. This
Awareness of Permanent Secretaries   provided a more informed base for
and other senior officials heightened   effective decision-making and more
in respect of the capabilities of FMIS,  timely implementation of reform
HRMIS, the Y2K problem, and the    activities. Also, the enabling of
importance of performance appraisal   prompt and direct response to
problems affecting the Year 2000.
Programme Management              Corporate planning methodology
instituted in all ministries and major
To establish the corporate  departments and concerted efforts  Improvement in the planning and
planning methodology in eight  being made to cement the link to the   budgeting process; easier
(8) ministries and initiate the    budgeting process. Approximately    identification and correct placement
concept in others           1,200 persons have been trained in the  of programmes/activities; and
methodology.                     improvement in the assessment of
performance.
To adopt the Australian model
of Post Classification and  The post classification model was
relevant persons trained in its   adopted.                    The methodology was used to
implementation                                                classify all the positions in
government, although there are



83
To strengthen control to ensure                               areas that still needed refinement
chievement of programmes and       Approximately 43 statutory bodies or
aintenance of financial viability of  70% falling under the umbrella of the  Improvement in the financial
ublic enterprises and other statutory  Ministries have operated in a manner  viability of public sector enterprises
odies                             to address the areas.             and other statutory bodies.
Project Results - Financial & Programme Management Improvement Project
Subproject     Objective                Achievements                       Benefits                Other Comments
Programme Management cont.d       Programme developed and           Higher levels of personnel
implemented; some personnel      recruited, making the process of
To prepare and implement a  procedures decentralised; improved    change relating to the reforms
programme for attracting and    compensation packages implemented   smoother and more effective; lower
retaining qualified professional, for 399 persons in the professional,  attrition rate of qualified personnel
managerial and technical staff   788 managerial and 162 technical
areas
To design and implement
measures to improve the                                       Reduction in waiting time for public
efficiency and effectiveness of  Customer service improvement  services. For example driver's
over-the-counter services in    instituted in twenty-five (25) agencies  license obtainable within 2 hours
eight (8) selected agencies  with approx. 4,400 persons given  instead of 6 months; birth
relevant training                certificates in I hour to 4 weeks
instead of 6 weeks to 1 year.
Increase in revenue intake by
government as service becomes
more accessible
Financial Management Reforms
To develop and implement



84
programme budgeting
methodology in ministries and   Programme budgeting methodology   Budgets prepared on a more timely
departments                 established in all ministries and  basis, and attempts being made to
departments                      link with the corporate plan and
assist in identifying priorities which
will result in more efficient
allocation of scarce resources, and
enabling better forward planning.
Greater accountability and
transparency for public expenditure.
Ministries/departments can identify
input costs for achieving specific
objectives
Ministries/departments able to
determine purpose of expenditure
and what it gets for monies spent
instead ofjust the nature of the
expenditure as defined under
objects.
Project Results - Financial & Programme Management Improvement Project
Subproject      Objective               Achievements                       Benefits                 Other Comments
Computerisation                   FMIS implemeitted and operating in   Financial statements produced on a
17 sites.                  ,     more accurate and timely basis
To implement computer- based  Persons trained were as follows:
systems in MOFP and selected   300 in a training environment  Standardisation of the accounting
agencies to support the     700 on-the-job                    system
budgeting, accounting, cash  30 senior managers sensitised
management and financial
reporting processes designed
under the financial management
component; and                                                                  _   _



85
HRMIS implemented in 34 sites and   Personnel information more easily
number of persons trained were as  available.
the HRMIS to assist the     follows: 136 senior managers; 74  Establishment Order produced using
government in the management  application managers; over 100  HRMIS
of the civil service        sensitised to the system's capabilities
and effectiveness; and approx. 300 at
field/user sites provided with
operational/training support.
Training                                                            Improved financial management at
Over 7,000 persons were trained in all both middle and senior management
To train at least 3,000 civil  areas                         levels
servants for the implementation  Formal financial management:
of FMIS, HRMIS, and         middle and senior managers    34
financial management reforms,  programme budgeting - over  5,000
and programme management    exposed to the concept
improvements                other areas                247
corporate/strategic planning: 1,200
Enhancement of the ability of the
9 members of the teaching staff were  teaching staff to deliver training
To strengthen MIND to deliver  sent on short courses; 4 members of
training in general        the teaching    staff were trained in
management, programme       FMIS and HRMIS, and training
budgeting, programme        equipment provided
management, accounting and
computer skills
Project Administration            A total of forty-eight (48) long-term    The timely procurement of
consultants (local and foreign) were   consultants' services and effective
ARP Secretariat             recruited for financial management,  management of their contracts
computerisation (FMIS & HRMIS),  enabled the smooth discharge of
To recruit consultants and  programme management              their services in the related reform
manage their contracts      (corporate/strategic planning,    efforts.



86
organisational/procedural reviews,
and customer services improvement),
training and the Year 2000 problem
on a timely basis over the period of
the loan and contracts satisfactorily
administered. There was also a
number of short-term contracts
executed over time for the conduct of
training under the programme
management: corporate planning and
customer services subproject with
numbers trained as follows: TQM for
the Revenue Services - 1,361;
training of trainers (MIND/MDD) -
73; team building (MDD) - 102;
management analysis - " 57;
To prepare quarterly and annual customer service improvement -
reports on progress of project   412; corporate planning - 100
implementation                                                Provision of continuous update on
Quarterly and annual reports were    the progress of the project
prepared and submitted which also
To maintain separate accounts  facilitated the PIOJ's quarterly
and records of all project  reviews                           Proceeds of the Loan disbursed on a
expenditure                                                  timely basis and accounted for in
Separate accounts were maintained    accordance with World Bank and
and accounts and statements of   GOJ guidelines
expenditure audited and submitted on
a timely basis
November 1998



