Page  1
January 6, 1995
The Honorable Dr. Omar Davies
Minister of Finance
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
     Re: Jamaica-Financial and Program Management Improvement Project -
         3386-JM Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
     We refer you to the Loan Agreement between Jamaica (the Borrower)
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) dated June 28, 1991. We are pleased to inform you of our agree-
ment to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended to
read as follows:
     "Section II. Employment of Consultants
     1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
     2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provision of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equi-
valent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to US$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to US$25,000 equivalent or above."
     If you are in agreement with the above amendments to the Loan
Agreement please sign and date the form of confirmation below and
return a signed copy to us. This amendment shall become effective on
the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its
receipt of the copy of this letter duly countersigned.
Sincerely,
Paul Isenman
Country Director
Page  2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
JAMAICA
By: Omar Davies
    Authorized Representative
Date: October 15, 1996
