Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3386 JM
      (Financial and Program Management Improvement Project)
                              between
                              JAMAICA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 28, 1991
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3386 JM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1991, between JAMAICA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a policy
statement describing the major objectives and tasks which will form
part of its program for the administrative reform of the Borrower's
public administration dated June 4, 1991 (such statement hereinafter
called the Policy Statement);
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and designed to support the Policy Statement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "ARP" means the Administrative Reform Programme Office,
a governmental office attached to the PM's Office, as the term is
defined below, whose Executive Director reports directly to the
chairman and alternate chairman of the Working Group, as defined
below, the State Minister, as the term is defined below, and the
Permanent Secretary of the PM's office.
      (b)   "ASC" means Administrative Staff College, a Borrower
owned and operated training institution geared to the training of
public sector managers;
      (c)   "Central Bank" means Bank of Jamaica, the Borrower's
Central Bank;
      (d)   "FACT" means Financial and Accounts College of Training,
a Borrower owned and operated institution geared to the training of
financial and accounting personnel of the Borrower's public sector;
      (e)   "IMCAR" means the Borrower's Interministerial Committee
for the Administrative Reform, a subcommittee of the Cabinet chaired
by the Prime Minister or, in the absence thereof, the Deputy Prime
Minister and attended by senior officials with reponsibility for
such Administrative Reform.
      (f)   "PM's Office" means the office of the Borrower's Prime
Minister.
      (g)   "Program Budget" means a budget showing a detailed
breakdown of activities and/or projects, in a context of
standardized program classification for similar activities and/or
projects under recurrent and capital budgets, able to indicate
clearly the purposes of fund allocations therein;
      (h)   "Selected Ministries" means the following ministries of
the Borrower: Agriculture, Education, Finance, Development and
Planning, Health, Industry, Production and Commerce, Information and
Culture, Public Service, and Construction and such other Borrower's
ministry or ministries as agreed from time to time between the
Borrower and the Bank;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (j)   "State Minister" means the Minister of State in the PM's
Office with responsibility for policy review;
      (k)   "Statutory Bodies" means the agencies and entities of
Page  3
the Borrower listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 of this Agreement, as
such Annex may be amended from time to time; and
      (l)   "Working Group" means the working/technical group of
IMCAR consisting of the Financial Secretary, the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Public Service, the Director of the Planning
Institute of Jamaica, the Director of the policy review unit of the
PM's Office, and the Executive Director of ARP, which formulates,
inter alia, administrative reform policy including that of com-
puterization, and is chaired by the State Minister or, in his
absence, the Permanent Secretary of the PM's Office.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eleven million five hundred thousand dollars
($11,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
Page  4
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through ARP
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and management practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
the preceding paragraph (a), the reform cell of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning shall coordinate
activities related to financial reforms under the Project,
particularly Part A thereof, while the reform cell of the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Service shall coordinate activities related to
corporate planning and adjustment of the post classifications under
Part B of the Project, and under Part D.3 of the Project.
      (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare release
schedules for the staff of each of the Borrower's ministries who
shall undergo training in financial techniques and computer
utilization according to the timetable determined, from time to time
by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank, for the training
programs under Part D of the Project; (ii) furnish to ARP, through
the office of the corresponding Permanent Secretary and not later
than two months prior to the beginning of the applicable training
Page  5
session, evidence of the commitment of such Permanent Secretary for
the release of the staff in question and of their availability for
the training in question; and (iii) furnish to the Bank, through
ARP, all relevant information on (i) and (ii) above.
      (d)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall take such actions as shall
be necessary to ensure that: (i) the Working Group meets not less
frequently than every 60 days to review the status of the carrying
out of the Project; (ii) a general meeting of IMCAR is convened
whenever required for the carrying out of the Project; (iii) in the
Selected Ministries and not later than October 31, 1991, a planning
and budget unit is established with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank; and (iv) the Borrower's staff who
shall serve as Project managers and coordinators have, at all times,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
      (e) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall take such actions as shall
be necessary to rationalize the functions of the Statutory Bodies
by: (i) removing the unnecessary overlap of activities; (ii)
establishing an accountable management structure; (iii) introducing
a management information system; (iv) improving tasks performance;
and (v) introducing cost recovery principles for those Statutory
Bodies engaged in commercial activities.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain during the
execution of the Project, personnel in adequate numbers with
functions, responsibilities, experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) consult the Bank before making any
Project manager or coordinator appointment.
      Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall carry out jointly with the Bank during June 1993, a comprehen-
sive mid-term review not later than a date, to be determined, on the
progress of the Project based on performance criteria satisfactory
to the Bank.
      (b)   The Borrower shall expeditiously make such modifications
in the execution of the Project as shall be necessary as a result of
the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, which in the Bank's
opinion are necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the
Project.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
October 31, 1991, complete the appointment of all managers and staff
who shall take the lead and work full time, in each Selected
Ministry, in the preparation and implementation of Parts A, B.1 and
B.3 of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) complete the preparation of the
adjustments to post classifications and of the accompanying salary
scale, both under Part B.3 of the Project, for the Selected
Ministries not later than December 31, 1991 and July 31, 1992,
respectively; and (ii) begin the implementation of the aforesaid
post adjustments and salary scales, in respect of the Selected
Ministries, upon the commencement of the implementation of the
corporate plan for such Selected Ministries under Part B.1 of the
Project and the completion of any restructuring and organizational
changes required by such corporate plan.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions the Borrower
shall: (i) through the reform cells mentioned in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the ARP and
the Bank a monthly report on the status of the carrying out of Parts
A and B of the Project; and (ii) through ARP, furnish to the Working
Page  6
Group and the Bank a detailed monthly report, including a separate
technical report for Part C of the Project, on the status of the
carrying out of the Project, highlighting the issues and ways and
means identified to address them, updating the key performance
indicators satisfactory to the Bank applicable to the relevant
activities, and including the highlights of the corresponding report
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of (i) above.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Page  7
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any of ARP, ASC, FACT, IMCAR, any of the Selected Ministries or
the Working Group shall have been dissolved, or the Borrower or any
other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action in
respect of said agencies or entities which, in the opinion of the
Bank, shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date of September 30, 1991 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
                           ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Development and
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance,
              Development and Planning
            30 National Heroes Circle
            Kingston, Jamaica
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                   Kingston                  2447
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         JAMAICA
                         By /s/ Richard L. Bernal
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  8
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               8,420,000        100%
    services and
    training
(2) Goods, including           2,220,000        100%
    installation
    thereof
(3) Unallocated                  860,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                11,500,000
                              ==========
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's
efforts to improve the efficiency of financial and human resources
management in its administrative subdivisions.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:
      Strengthening the Borrower's financial management by:
      (a)   strengthening the budget process over time so as to
            enable the preparation of informative budgets based on
            defined objectives and expenditures feasible under the
            existing macroeconomic framework, and establishing
            forward estimates and financial planning processes in
            the Borrower's ministries geared to the preparation of
            Program Budgets therefor;
      (b)   establishing a Program Budget structure and sound
            operational accounting and internal audit systems
            adapted to support Program Budgets;
      (c)   strengthening the cash management system, through an
            improved procedure for the release of funds under
            current programs or projects;
Page  9
      (d)   streamlining the external assistance for programs and
            projects by improving the accounting classification and
            procedures to monitor and expedite disbursement of local
            funds and transfer of resources from aid agencies; and
      (e)   improving financial reporting systems so as to ensure
            that relevant and essential information will flow in a
            timely manner, and that adequate mechanisms to analyze
            such information are in place.
Part B:
1.    Improving the efficiency and effectiveness of Selected
Ministries by providing an appropriate methodology to determine
sector objectives and priorities, identifying sound programs and
monitoring their progress, and developing administrative structures
for the delivery of such programs, including the formulation and
implementation of a corporate planning methodology for Selected
Ministries and the Statutory Bodies within their jurisdiction which
are critical for the functioning thereof, and the adjustment of post
classifications arising from any restructuring, which includes task
specifications and accountabilities, performance expectations and
salary scales for posts for professional, managerial and technical
personnel (PMT).
2.    Defining the missions of, and identifying relevant strategies
and establishing adequate information for Borrower's ministries,
other than Selected Ministries, and Statutory Bodies within their
jurisdiction.
3.    Designing and implementing a program for attracting, recruit-
ing and retaining PMT personnel in the public sector, through
adjustment of post classifications and accompanying salary scale for
PMT posts and the establishment of procedures aiming to achieve
decentralized recruitment therefor.
4.    Identifying priority Borrower's agencies for a review of their
over-the-counter services, and designing and implementing programs
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the delivery of such
services to the general public.
Part C:
1.    Establishing a computerized system within the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance, Development and Planning and public entities to
support the activities to be carried out under Part A of the
Project, including the acquisition and utilization of computer
equipment, hardware and software necessary therefor.
2.   Implementation of a human resources management information
system to assist the Borrower in the management of its public
sector's personnel through: (a) acquisition and utilization of a
mini computer to be located at the Borrower's National Computer
Center; (b) utilization of the hardware equipment under 1 above; and
(c) introduction of special modules, to the maximum extent possible
noncustomized, in the Selected Ministries.
Part D:
1.    Training of at least 3,000 civil servants in order to improve
their capabilities and facilitate the introduction of the admini-
strative reform under Parts A, B and C of the Project. Among those
to be trained are senior and mid-level managers, computer staff, and
financial and accounting personnel.
2.    Development of programs to train managers in the public sector
and upgrade staff of the administration in general.
3.    Strengthening of ASC and FACT, including, in the case of the
latter, acquisition and utilization of computer equipment for the
establishment of a computer laboratory where trainers could get
Page  10
practical training in the use of hardware and software used in the
Borrower's ministries.
Part E:
      Strengthening the Project management capabilities of the PM's
office, ARP and the reform cells of the Ministries of Finance,
Development and Planning, and Public Service through the provision
of consultant services and the acquisition and utilization of office
and computer equipment.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                               ANNEX
                         Statutory Bodies
Ministry of Agriculture
Rural Agricultural Development Agency
Agricultural Credit Board
Agricultural Development Corporation
Agricultural Marketing Corporation
Coconut Industry Board
Coffee Industry Board
Fisheries Division
Jamaica Agricultural Society
Sugar Industry Authority
Registrar of Titles Survey Department
Ministry of Education
College of Arts, Science & Technology
JAMAL Foundation
Jamaica Library Service
Heart Trust
Ministry of Health
Family Planning Board
Ministry of Housing
Estate Development Company
National Housing Corporation
National Housing Trust
Rent Assessment Board
Sugar Industry Housing
Ministry of Industry, Production & Commerce
Jamaica Commodity Trading Company Limited
Prices Commission
Registrar of Companies
Trade Board Limited
Ministry of Information & Culture
Institute of Jamaica
Jamaica Cultural Development Commission
Jamaica Information Service
Jamaica Library Service
Jamaica National Heritage Trust
National Council on Libraries, Archives, and Information Systems
Things Jamaican Limited
Ministry of Finance, Development & Planning
Stamp Office
Town Planning
Page  11
Revenue Board
Project Analysis Monitoring Company
Planning Institute of Jamaica
Bank of Jamaica
Real Estate Board
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
      On each January 1 and July 1
           beginning January 1, 1997
           through   January 1, 2008               480,000
      On July 1, 2008                              460,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  12
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Goods (except computer equipment and post installation
support, maintenance and repair services therefor under Part C of
the Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $130,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $20,000, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
Page  13
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures. All such deposits shall be with-
                  drawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                  respective eligible Categories, and in the re-
                  spective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account,  the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
Page  14
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
