Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23468-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 34.70 MILLION (US$ 34 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AND FORESTRY AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 26, 2002
Middle East and North Africa Region
Rural Development, Water, Environment and Social Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
TD1.00 = US$0.69
US$1.00 = TD1.44
FISCAL YEAR
01/01/2002 - 12/31/2002
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP            Connections for Potable water
Adduction d'eau potable
AFA            Agriculture Land Agency
Agence Fonciere Agricole
AFIC           Forestry Association with Collective Interest
Association Forestieres d'interet collectif
ANPE           Environmental Protection Agency
Agence Nationale de Protection de l 'Environnement
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
Pret programme evolutif
ASIL           Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASIL2          Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASSP           Agricultural Support Services Project
AVFA           Agency for Agricultural Extension and Training
Agence de Vulgarisation et de Formation Agricole
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CD             Development Committees
Comites de Developpement
CDD            Community Driven Development Approach
CDP            Community Development Plans
Plan de developpement communautaire
CFPAR          Rimel Agricultural Professional Training Center
Centre deformation professionel agricole de Rimel
CITET          International Center for Technology and the Environment of Tunis
Centre international de technologie de l'environnement de Tunis
CL             Local Coordinators
Coordinateurs locaux
CP             Contract Programs
Contrat programmes
CRDA           Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
Commissariats Regionaux de developpement agricole
CTV            Local Extension Centers
Cellules Territoriales de Vulgarisation
DGFIOP         General Directorate for Finance and Investments and Professional Organizations
Direction generale dufinancement, investissement et organismes professionnels
DGF            General Department of Forestry
Direction Generale des Forets



DREH,1 T        Regional Department of Equipment and Housing
Direction Regionale de 1 'Equipement, de I 'Habitat et de l'Amenagement des
Territoires
EA              Environmental Assessment
Evaluation environnementale
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
EPNA           Non Administrative Public Establishment
Etablissement Public a caractere Non-Administratif
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FD              Finance Department
Departement des Affaires Financieres
FNS             National Solidarity Fund
Fonds National de Solidarite
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
GDA            Agricultural Development Associations
Groupements de developpement Agricole
GIS            Geographic Information System
GOT            Government of Tunisia
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IRESA           Institute for Agricultural Research and Higher Education
hnstitution de Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
MAERH          Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources
Afinistere de lA'griculture, de 1 'Environnement et des Ressources Hydrauliques
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MEHA T         Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Territory Development
Ministere de I 'Equipement, de l 'Habitat et de l'Amenagement des Territoires
MIS            Management Information System
NGO            Non-Govermmental Organization
NWDP'          Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project
ODESYPANO      Northwest Forestry and Pastoral Development Agency
Office du Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
OEP            Office for Livestock and Pasture
Office de l16levage et des pdturages
UPPAP          Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships
Unite de promotion de I 'API et du partenariat
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
UJnitW de Coordination de Projet
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
WSIL           Water Sector Investment Loan
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:  Pedro Alba
Sector Manager/Director:  Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough



TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AND FORESTRY AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    13
3. Benefits and target population                                                   14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      25
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         25
2. Financial                                                                        25
3. Technical                                                                        26
4. Institutional                                                                    27
5. Environmental                                                                    29
6. Social                                                                           32
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   36
2. Critical risks                                                                   37



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     38
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            38
2. Other                                                                              39
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          39
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          40
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            73
Annex I 1: Description of the beneficiaries                                              75
Annex 12: ODESYPANO and its partners                                                     82
Annex 13: Summary of the Environmental Assessment                                        87
MAP(S)
IBRD 31847
IBRD 31848



TUNISIA
Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: September 26, 2002                         Team Leader: Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Sector Manager/Director: Petros Alcilu           Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Manager/Director: PedroAlba              (40%), Agricultural extension and research (20%),
Project ID: P072317                              Forestry (20%), Crops (15%), Other social services (5%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Other rural development (P), Rural markets
(P); Rural non-farm income generation (P), Land
management (P)
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): 34.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 2 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 22
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years, 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter                      Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[ ] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[X]. Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      6.59           0.26         6.85
IBRD                                                         28.26           5.74        34.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                            3.26          0.75          4.01
Total:                                                       38.11          6.75         44.86



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT & HYDRAULIC RESOURCES
MNISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, through ODESYPANO
Address: 30, rue Alain Savary, 1002 Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Abdallah Mallek, Director General, DGFIO
Mr. Ahmed El Achek, President Director General of ODESYPANO
Tel: 216 71 842 687           Fax: 216 71 784 447           Email:
216 78 450 500                 216 78 454 718            Dgle.odesypano(ati.tn
Other Agency(ies):
Ministere de la Cooperation Intemationale et de l'Investissement Exterieur
Address: 98, Avenue Mohamed V, 1002 Tunis-Belvedere
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb, Director General
Tel: 216 71 798 522           Fax: 216 71 769 845           Email: Multilaterale(@mci.gov.tn
Estimated Disbursement in US$m Equivalent (Bank FY/Semesters):
FY    2003     2004       2005       2006      2007      2008      2009    _
Source         Sem. 1    Sem. 1    Sem. 1    Sem. 1     Sem. 1    Sem. 1    Sem. 1
Sem. 2    Sem. 2    Sem. 2     Sem. 2    Sem. 2    Sem. 2    Sem. 2
IBRD                 0.80      4.00      5.90      6.50       7.00      7.00      2.80
Cumulative         $0.80     $4.80     $10.70    $17.20    $24.20    $31.20     $34.00 _
Project implementation period: Project implementation period: 2003-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 01/02/2003  Expected closing date:  12/31/2008
OCS PAD F.Flt A.. A X
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve the socio-economic conditions of the populations in five
govemorates covering the mountainous and forested areas of the northwest region, Beja, Bizerte, Kef,
Jendouba and Siliana, while ensuring sustainable management of the natural resources.
Mo:re specifically, the project will aim to increase household incomes through the improvement and
diversification of the agricultural/pastoral production systems as well as the promotion of off-farm
income-generating activities. The project would achieve its development objective by supporting: (i)
capacity building for the beneficiary communities; (ii) limited institutional restructuring and capacity
building for the implementing agency, the Office de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
(ODESYPANO) and its development partners to render them more effective at assisting the communities
in planning, implementing and monitoring their own rural development programs/activities; (iii) the
identification and implementation of income-generating activities, on and off-farm to increase revenues;
(iv) the protection and improvement in the management of natural resources; and (v) the improvement of
the beneficiaries' access to basic rural infrastructure.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The detailed key performance indicators are presented in Annex 1. The indicators are designed to allow
the Government and the Bank to take stock of the progress of selected measures while allowing for
possible adjustments in the project'objectives to a more realistic and achievable level. Key indicators for
the development objective would be measured by: improvements in household incomes and access to
basic infrastructure; (ii) improved vegetation and forestry cover; and (iii) increases in the magnitude of
the cultivated areas in crop yields over a five-year average period. Key indicators for selected project
activities would be: (i) degree of participation by the populations in the preparation/execution of the
Community Development Plans (CDP), measured by, among other indicators, the number of CDP jointly
prepared and the level of participation by the local communities in project implementation; (ii) increase
in capacity among communities, grassroots organizations and other participating agencies/institutions to
effectively implement development activities as measured by - the number of informal and formal
organizations that are operational (by type), and by the number of women, the landless and other
disadvantaged sectors of the population participating in Development Committees or socio-professional
groups; (iii) percent increases in household incomes from improvements and diversification in the
agricultural/pastoral production systems as well as from off-farm income-generating activities; (iv)
improvements (quantity/quality) in the vegetal and forest covers as a percentage of the without project
scenario in the target areas; and (v) increases in the number of beneficiary families having access to basic
social infrastructure, as measured by the number of km of improved rural roads, number of wells and
other basic infrastructure and social services.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R 2000-46 Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/27/2000
The development objective of the project relates most closely to the CAS objective which aims to
strengthen the Govemment's social agenda through the implementation of environmentally and socially
sustainable development, including the protection of scarce natural resources and the continuation of
poverty reduction measures. In addition, the project is consistent with the Bank and Middle East and
North Africa (MENA) Rural Development Strategy, "Reaching the Rural Poor", which focuses on
poverty reduction and improved livelihoods in rural areas.
- 3-



The proposed project is consistent with the Government's 10th five-year Economic and Social
Development Plan for 2002-2006 in which the socio-economic development of the rural populations and
sustainable natural resources management are high priorities. Given the satisfactory results of the
implementation of the North West Mountainous Areas Development Project (NWDP - Ln. 3691-TUN) to
which the proposed project constitutes a follow-up phase, the objectives previously described are
considered to be realistic and attainable. The proposed project would assist the Government of Tunisia
(GOT) in achieving its goal of promoting rural development as an instrument for reducing poverty and
improving the living standards of the rural populations.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Several sector issues are identifiable:
Low agricultural productivity, over-exploitation of the natural resources and rural poverty. There
are strong linkages between low agricultural productivity, the over-exploitation of natural resources and
rural poverty in the northwest region. The problem is compounded by the large rural population with a
significant number of the young and landless. It was estimated in 1993 that the northwest region alone
was home to at least 15 percent of the country's population and that 25 percent of these people live below
the national poverty threshold. The regional average household expenditure is estimated at DT 500
compared to DT 710 country-wide. Agricultural activities represent only 60 percent of the estimated
available time of the working force, suggesting high unemployment. As a result, around 15-20% of the
male population leaves the region at least once a year in search of employment. Poor soils, high rates of
erosion, soil degradation, low adoption of improved techniques and high land fragmentation result in low
agricultural productivity which increases the dependence on the natural resources for revenue generation.
Although progressive policies and large investments have been put into place by the Government in the
northwest, the socio-economic conditions are still more difficult than in many other parts of the country,
partly due to the adverse agro-ecological situation but also because of the remaining weaknesses in the
public support services and infrastructure.
The deteriorating environment. The region is highly vulnerable to soil erosion and degradation, mainly
because of its steep slopes, high winter rainfall and also, of course, the strong population/animal
pressure. Protecting and improving the management of the environment are very important since the
region is home to watersheds affecting over 80 percent of the country's water resources and more than
half the national forests. These forests are essentially for protective purposes and increasingly subject to
deforestation by populations and grazing by animals. This situation is unlikely to improve unless
alternative sources of incomes are identified and promoted. A related issue is improving the access of
the populations living on the edges of the forests to the forest resources.
Social development and sustainability of investments. The implementation of past rural development
projects has shown the importance of local community involvement for ensuring the sustainability of the
investments. However, the local communities often lack sufficient capacity to participate in the
decision-making process related to activities concerning their socio-economic development or they are
not invited to participate. To improve the participation and ownership of communities while ensuring
first that their priorities are well taken into account, investments in institutional capacity building must be
given priority starting with adequate training and exposure to more advanced environments/populations.
Limitations of the public support services. The public support services in the northwest region
(mainly agricultural extension and research, but also road construction/maintenance, health and
education) are under-funded and often suffer from a shortage of qualified/dedicated staff. The
- 4 -



Agricultural Support Services Project - ASSP (Ln. 7063-TUN) entails efforts to improve the public
services to farming families in commercial areas. However, the families in marginal areas, particularly
those in remote locations with low literacy rates, remain largely under-serviced. In these locations,
ODESYPANO will continue to play an important role. However, improving the effectiveness of the
support services will require much more collaboration/synergy between the governmental and
non-governmental organizations operating in the region.
Furthermore, despite working in similar areas and in some cases with the same populations, the planning
and implementation of developmental activities by these organizations are not well coordinated.
Moreover, many organizations do not carry out cross-sectoral activities, rather concentrating on single
(thematic) mandates. This situation has resulted in duplication, overlaps and high costs of
implementation. In addition, several of the resulting investments are not sustainable since it becomes
extremely difficult to adequately finance all the necessary operation and maintenance costs.
Government strategy
The Government of Tunisia (GOT) lays out its strategy in five-year Economic and Social Development
Plans. The 9th Plan has just ended and the 10th Plan became operational in 2002. In the latter, the
Government reaffirms the importance of sound natural resources management and of the improvement in
the socio-economic conditions and standards of living of the populations (particularly rural) as a tool for
sustainable economic development. As such, the Government intends to continue implementing its
strategy of: (i) strengthening the social agenda, particularly the continuation of poverty reduction
measures; and (ii) improving environmental management, including the protection of scarce natural
resources.
To improve agricultural productivity, natural resources and environmental management, the Government
intends to: (i) impel the adaptation, development and dissemination of appropriate improved
technologies; (ii) facilitate access to credit through the simplification of procedures for the preparation of
funding proposals, with a view to diversify'ing agricultural production and revenue; (iii) improve access
to better basic rural infrastructure; and (iv) promote the development of off-farm income-generating
activities. To accelerate the adoption of improved technologies, the Government recognizes that it will
need to invest more in agricultural support services (rnainly extension and research) and in institutional
capacity building. The recently launched ASSP is an example of efforts being made to increase the
efficiency of the support services. The Government also emphasizes illiteracy-reduction activities,
particularly targeting rural areas where illiteracy is highest, as part of its efforts to invest in human
capital development.
Although the problem of access to credit remains acute, the Government has supported and continues to
support: (i) regional programs, such as the Programme de Developpement Regional, Programme de
Developpement Rural Integre, Fonds de Solidarite Nationale (FNS 2626) which have provided financing
for various activities; (ii) a number of special funds targeting micro-projects/enterprises and numerous
NCGO which are dedicated to socio-economic development through the provision of grants, small loans
and technical assistance to accompany financial resources; and (iii) agricultural banks which assist rural
communities through credit.
To increase the sustainability of development efforts, the Government has been putting emphasis on the
participation of local communities. The Government has also been supporting the creation of formal local
community groups. Decree No. 43 of May 10, 1999 outlines the parameters for the formalization
process. Such groups have been used in several Bank-assisted projects, such as the recently closed
NVVDP, the Second Forestry Development Project (Ln 3601-TUN), and in the ongoing Natural
-5-



Resources Management Project (LN. 4162). The GEF-assisted Protected Areas Management Project will
also be supporting the formation of beneficiary groups, as do various other donor funded projects. The
General Directorate of Forestry (DGF), as part of the implementation of the Second Forestry
Development Project, prepared a Forestry Strategy to guide future development in the sector. The DGF
has gone a step further and recently created a Division whose sole mandate is to oversee the
socio-economic development of forest dwellers. In addition to improving maintenance operations in
forests to maximize both environmental and commercial values, the Forestry Strategy also emphasizes
participatory management of forest resources. Although the local communities have harvested forest
resources for their own needs, they have not participated in forest management activities, except as labor,
mainly because the bidding procedures for these activities have favored larger enterprises. The
Govermment is presently reviewing this situation to improve bidding procedures. However, the issue
remains unclear as to whether communities living around the forests would also be allowed to participate
in forest management. Given their importance in numbers, not permitting them to participate is likely to
thwart the objective of reducing the pressure on forest resources.
As part of the Government's effort to increase cost-effectiveness in rural development activities, it has
specifically requested that ODESYPANO review its operational mandate to capitalize on its comparative
advantages as well as build working partnerships with other governmental and non-governmental
organizations in the region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main sector issue to be addressed is the challenge to improve the socio-economic conditions of the
beneficiaries, and hence contribute to poverty alleviation, while protecting the natural resources as well
as improving their management. To achieve this objective, the project emphasizes a rural development
approach that is highly participative and includes the participation of various other agencies involved in
socio-economic development of the populations in the zone. The specific issues to be addressed by the
project, discussed below, were selected to maximize the potential for achieving the stated objective.
The low agricultural productivity and over-exploitation of the natural resources (including the forests)
remain the main obstacles to the improvement of agricultural production. In particular, poor cultural
practices tend to result in low yields and worsen degradation/erosion. To increase agricultural
productivity and improve natural resource management, the project will essentially aim at: (i) developing
and promoting the adoption of improved agricultural technologies/practices suitable to the existing
agro-ecological conditions; and (ii) carrying out the necessary soil/water conservation works and
promoting better environmental policies/practices. The project would also identify and promote off-farm
income-generating activities to supplement household revenues. The marginality of the project target
areas means that the extent to which agricultural productivity can be improved is limited, and higher
household incomes are more likely to result from off-farm activities.
To contribute to the reduction of the population/animal pressure on the forests, the project would: (i)
improve access by the local communities to the forest resources, in order to increase the household
revenues, as well as identify other acceptable altemative income-generating activities; (ii) contribute to
the Government's strategy of promoting sustainable forest resources management through increased
participatory forest management; and (iii) help the local communities participate in the bidding for (and
carrying out of) forest management contracts, through improved bidding procedures as well as the
provision of small equipment and technical assistance.
It is now well proven and accepted that helping the local communities participate in project
implementation is a prerequisite to sustainability. However, there is also a need to invest in institutional
- 6 -



capacity building so that the communities are capable of making valuable/productive contributions as
well as operating and maintaining the assets after the investment period. The project will: (i) use an
integrated participatory approach (API) to ensure that the needs/constraints of the populations are
reflected in the design, implementation and monitoring of the project activities at the local level; and (ii)
support capacity building of the local communities to increase the ownership in (and the sustainability
of) project activities. The integrated participatory approach has been used in the recently completed
NWDP project and its benefits have been demonstrated. However, to move to an approach where the
population not only participates but is also in charge of the course of development necessitates that
factors that foster capacity in the local communities are in place. The table below briefly describes the
participatory approach as it has been implemented in ODESYPANO in the past, the changes that have
been introduced in the approach for the present project as well as the additional factors that must be
implemented to have a functional community demand driven (CDD) approach.
Use of the Inteerated narticinatory anoroach in the orolect
API in the NWDP. The participatory approach currently used by ODESYPANO is based on social cohesion existing at the level
of douars that are linked by kinship ties. These douars form cluster communities who negotiate with the administration through
an elected body, Development Committees (DC). A multidisciplinary team consisting of subject matter specialists, animators
and animatrices works with the population to record their needs in the Community Development Plans (CDP) which are
implemented through signed yearly Contract Programs (CP). Although the project design provided for the DC to be the key
actors in project activity implementation, the participatory model relied on ODESYPANO being the chief agency organizing the
communities, diagnosing and finding solutions to the needs, developing the CDP and executing them, while the populations
participated in cash and kind and through their employment in tacherons. So although the population did express their demand,
they were not the drivers per se of the implementation and monitoring and evaluation phases. The result was that local
community capacity built to manage their own development and resources was insufficient. In addition, the informal character of
the DC and their lack of linkages to other formal Government structures weakened the potential of this mode of operation with
regards to sustainability.
Adaptation of the API in the NWDP. The project would continue to plan project activities through Community Development
Plans (CDP) implemented with the beneficiary communities on the basis of yearly Contract Programs (CP). However, two types
of CDP would be prepared: (i) basic CDP (first generation) for communities not already benefiting from a CDP, and (ii)
consolidating CDP (second generation) for communities having benefited from the basic CDP. Both types would be for a period
of about five years but there are fundamental differences. The spatial area of intervention of a basic CDP is a homogenous group
of douars (perhaps 2-3 villages) while the consolidating CDP would cover a larger area, perhaps up to an administrative sector if
circumstances permit. Furthermore, the basic CDP are focused (although not exclusively) on capacity building and physical
realizations aimed at meeting the primary needs of the populations in public support services and rural infrastructure whereas the
consolidating CDP would be more focused on consolidating the physical realizations already in place, carrying out
pilot-activities in forestry and land consolidation, and promoting micro-projects/enterprises.
Features of a CDD approach. The evolution of the API to a demand driven approach entails that a number of factors are in
place. The most important dictate that: (i) investments be responsive to informed demand - requiring access to adequate credit or
grants; (ii) participatory mechanisms for stakeholder involvement are used; (iii) there is capacity building of community based
organizations; (iv) the approach facilitates community access to information; (v) an enabling policy and institutional framework
is established; (vi) a certain flexibility in project design is maintained; (vii) there is social and gender inclusion; (viii) the design
allows for scaling-up and fiscal replicability; (ix) there is sustainability of the funding instruments; and (x) there is a presence of
social safeguards, such as social safety nets. Putting all these factors in place is a long-term objective that is process oriented.
The API is one of the important precursors to a CDD approach, which must be viewed as a process to increase local community
participation, build their capacity to be involved in their own development and increase potential for sustainability of
investments.
In the past, ODESYPANO has put a lot of emphasis on the development/promotion of improved
technical packages to increase agricultural production. However, the provision of adequate extension
services remains a major challenge in several marginal areas. To address this issue, the project would: (i)
improve and expand the use of the integrated participatory approach with a view to enhance local
community participation and accelerate the dissemination of improved technical solutions developed
through adaptive research; and (ii) build working partnerships with other rural development agencies that
- 7 -



are involved in the dissemination of improved technical solutions (such as, NGOs, DGF, CRDAs) in
order to increase the overall effectiveness of the extension work.
A cost-effective implementation of rural development activities in the northwest remains one of the most
challenging tasks ahead, mainly because it requires that practical partnerships be established between
agencies with different interests and whose capacities are not necessarily at the same level. The project
would address this challenge by: (i) assisting ODESYPANO in redefining its role based on its
relative/comparative advantages versus other existing agencies; and (ii) establishing working partnerships
for the implementation of project activities in cases where other agencies are more suitable and/or can
carry out the activities more efficiently at a lower cost.
Before discussing the strategic choices made in this project it is important to describe, albeit briefly the
successes and challenges of ODESYPANO since its creation in 1981.
ODESYPANO - The Past 20 years
The mission. ODESYPANO was created in 1981, to ensure the management of natural resources in two major watersheds to
minimize erosion and silting of dams in an zone that was considerably isolated and poorer than other regions in Tunisia.
ODESYPANO contributed to the improvement of incomes while ensuring improvements in natural resources management
through investments in infrastructure works, mostly roads and anti-erosion measures. ODESYPANO also contributed to
improved and intensified livestock raising. Thus the first North West Rural Development Project (NWRDP) had a sector as well
as territorial focus, based on technical criteria for the management of watersheds rather than on the basis of sociological and
poverty alleviation criteria. The second phase, the Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project (NWDP) which began in
1993 had a poverty alleviation and natural resource management focus implemented using a participatory approach that
emphasized community organization and training to increase local community capacity to participate. The project recognized the
need to target special groups including women, unemployed youth and the landless because of the special challenges they
represented in terms of illiteracy, unemployment and lack of access to basic infrastructure and social services. However, the
institutional framework for the effective inclusion of these special groups was not fully developed.
Results from the past projects. Both projects were rated as satisfactory in achieving their development objectives. A measure
of the degree of success by ODESYPANO in the past years is best illustrated from the results of the recently completed NWDP.
Incomes. Family incomes from agricultural production on small farms represented real annual growth rates of 6.3 and 6.9
percent for small and medium farms respectively, while estimates from non-farm activities added another 5 to 10 percent.
However, benefits to the landless households were limited due to inadequate targeting mechanisms used, but they did gain from
community services such as roads, clinics, and schools. Basic infrastructure. The proportion of target groups having difficulty
with access to rural roads, potable water, and water for livestock was reduced from the baseline estimate of 48 percent to 18
percent by project completion. Average distances from potable water were reduced from 1.5 km to 0.8 kin, and those from
livestock watering points from 1.5 km to 0.9 km. Education. During project preparation it was found that the target population
experienced a high level of illiteracy, particularly among young girls, largely as a result of inadequate access to schools and the
reluctance of parents to let them walk long distances. The project financed several schools and increased the number of villages
close to schools from 39 percent to 46 percent. It is estimated that school building coupled with improvements in rural roads
contributed to reducing average illiteracy rates from baseline estimates of 60 percent to approximately 44 percent among
beneficiary populations. Migration. Overall, the number of households was found to increase after three to four years of project
implementation, a phenomenon that is being attributed to improved socio-economic conditions, including better roads and other
basic facilities. Environment. The impact of soil and water conservation measures were increased infiltration rates and crop and
tree survival rates. In addition, as a result of the increased water retention capacity of the soils, the adoption of perennial crops
increased from a baseline estimate of 45 percent to 55 percent. The increased agricultural production also raised on-farm
employment opportunities. For example, the number of days spent working on-farm increased from the baseline of 136/yr to
285/yr at project end, an increase of 149 days or 109 percent. This is an important result for a region where there is high
unemployment and under-employment.
Is the ODESYPANO model replicable? To address the replicability of the ODESYPANO experience, it is important to assess
the success of the instruments applied by ODESYPANO. The key instrument applied by ODESYPANO is the integrated
participatory approach which has significantly evolved since its inception.  The methodology is flexible and it uses
multidisciplinary teams to encourage local community participation. Another key factor to its success has been the decentralized
implementation structure of ODESYPANO which has allowed local communities to express their needs and ODESYPANO to
address them through the jointly prepared CDP and the CP. During replication, the API methodology must be adapted to the
socio-economic conditions, the agro-ecological zones, and above all it must remain flexible to permit a quick response to local
community demands - a key prerequisite to improving socio-economic conditions. A review of participatory methodologies in
use in Tunisia is being carried out with the objective to scale-up successful approaches to other Rural Development activities in
Tunisia.
-8-



Strategic choices:
A brief discussion is included here to highlight the most important underlying strategic choice
considerations:
*   The project will improve and expand the use of the integrated participatory approach to enhance
responses to beneficiary needs and increase local community benefits. In addition to the
improved use of this approach, the project will also continue to use the integrated participatory
approach through which local communities will not only set their priorities but will be
institutionally strengthened so as to become effective planners of their development in the
medium to long-tern. This strengthening will be realized through various investments, mainly in
training, exposure to more advanced environments/populations, and the provision of small
equipmentlmaterials. Local community participation in project activities will include both
in-kind and financial contributions.
*   The capacity building envisaged in the basic CDP, as well as in the consolidating CDP, would
include assistance for the formation of formal community-based socio-professional
organizations, such as the GDA. These would then become suitable institutional channels for the
promotion of micro-projects/enterprises and the development of alternative income-generating
activities.
*   An additional important feature of the project design relates to the disengagement of
ODESYPANO and its subsequent transference of responsibilities for socio-economic
development of beneficiaries to the CRDA (Regional Commisariats for Agricultural
Development) or to beneficiaries having adequate capacity. It is envisaged that during the final
two years of implementation of the consolidating CDP, an assessment of the "readiness" of the
beneficiaries to independently plan and carry out their development activities would be carried
out. If communities still require capacity building activities and technical assistance, this
responsibility would be transferred to the CRDA. Besides being permanent structures, the CRDA
have the added advantage in that they have access to various regional work programs which
would be of benefit to the communities.
The disengagement by ODESYPANO from activities that it no longer has a comparative advantage such
as the construction and rehabilitation of roads, clinics and schools which are covered by the mandates of
other Ministries, as well as the heavy soil and water conservation activities that are more efficiently
implemented by the CRDA is an important strategic choice. However in this project, given the novelty of
collaborative planning and implementation, the transfer of responsibilities particularly road rehabilitation
in remote areas and the heavy soil and Water conservation activities will largely concern only the
implementation stage while the financing will be assured by ODESYPANO, at least in the short-term. In
the medium to long-term collaboration would be expected to include the implementation and
co-financing of the activities. The results of this exercise will provide lessons for possible scaling-up in
the country. In addition, the joint planning and financing should begin to address the issue of
sustainability after project completion.
-9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Components. Project design emphasizes local community participation and the activities
selected are the result of consultations with local communities. However, because the final selection of
the project activities will depend on local community demand, the activities presented below could vary
during project implementation. Although it is not explicitly mentioned in the component description,
implementation of most activities could involve other Government or non-governmental agencies.
Possible partnerships during implementation are described under the section on Institutional and
Implementation Arrangements and also in Annexes 2 and 12.
Innovations in the project. Although the project activities will be largely similar to those carried out in
the recently completed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project (NWDP), a number of
innovations aimed at increasing the developmental impact will be introduced. The project would: (i)
promote/finance the development of formal working partnerships between ODESYPANO and the
various Government and non-government agencies involved in rural development for the northwest; (ii)
improve/expand the use of the integrated participatory approach introduced during the implementation of
previous projects to increase ownership among the beneficiaries and hence the sustainability of the
investments realized. The API approach should result in greater empowerment of the populations so that
they can participate effectively in the planning and implementation of rural development activities, and
constitutes an investment in social capital; (iii) support the application of the decree allowing for the
formation of formal community-based socio-professional organizations, mainly Agricultural
Development Associations (GDA) which have the mandate to manage their own financial resources,
thereby increasing their capacity for self-management; and (iv) improve the approach/methodologies for
the preparation and implementation of the Community Development Plans (CDP) by using two
"generations" of plans, a first that is investment oriented and a second aimed at strengthening the CD and
consolidating the implementation of activities from the first generation plans, leading to the eventual
disengagement of ODESYPANO in favor of the beneficiaries and the CRDA.
Linkages of the proposed project with the ongoing Agricultural Services Support Project (ASSP)
and the Water Sector Investment Loan (WSIL). There are no direct linkages between the proposed
project and the ASSP because the ASSP targets small to medium scale farmers with potential for
commercial agriculture, whereas this project is to be implemented primarily in marginal areas. In
addition, the WSIL is being executed in areas that do not correspond with the proposed project. This
said, the importance of increasing local community participation to improve socio-economic conditions
of the local communities is a common concept between the projects. In addition, the Institutional
Reforms that are being implemented through the ASSP should have a positive impact on the proposed
project. Furthermore, it is possible also, that the ASSP could interface with the proposed project through
the partnerships to be developed with other agencies.
Project components.
The selection of project components is based on a combination of information from the demands
expressed by the local communities during the beneficiary needs assessments, stakeholder analyses, on
the feasibility study carried out before project preparation and on experience from the recently completed
NWDP project, particularly that relating to infrastructure needs. Because the final project activities
implemented depends on beneficiary population demands, the activities below should be viewed as a
"menu " and they do not restrict the addition of new ones. Moreover, for the purposes of costing, it was
important that preliminary activities and components were assigned.
- 10-



Component 1: Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners (Total cost $3.4 million)
The component would support capacity building activities aimed at rendering ODESYPANO more
efficient and cost-effective at planning, implementing and monitoring project activities, with particular
emphasis on support to its decentralized implementation structure. In addition, the component would
support specific short-term well-defined activities targeted to increase the capacity of ODESYPANO's
partners, including the beneficiary populations, to effectively participate in the planning, implementation
and monitoring/evaluation of project activities. The component would finance four sub-components:
*   Adjustment/strengthening of ODESYPANO's organizational structure to enable it to adapt
to its changing role through the: (i) redefinition of roles and responsibilities, including
human resources planning and management; (ii) the purchase of equipment and replacement
vehicles and some building rehabilitation; (iii) provision of national technical assistance for
updating operations/procedures manuals and helping with the formulation of CDP in the first
two years of project implementation;
*   Improvement of information systems to support project implementation and monitoring
with a decentralized structure, through: (i) the rationalization and upgrading of existing
information systems, including strengthening the Geographic Information System (GIS),
Management Information System (MIS) and audit system; (ii) the setting up of an M&E
system consistent with ODESYPANO's revised role; and (iiii) purchase of equipment and
materials to support the improved information systems and the migration of the existing
information/data to the new systems;
*   Training program  to improve the skills and performance of ODESYPANO staff to
effectively implement through financing the formulation and implementation of a training
and career development program for ODESYPANO, covering topics such as, planning,
monitoring and evaluation, use of improved information systems, rural socio-economic
development and environmental matters; and
*   Capacity building for beneficiary communities and partners to enhance their capacity for
participating in the formulation and implementation of developmental activities, through: (i)
training activities, including visits to progressive/model areas; (ii) funding of workshops for
information sharing, planning and consensus building; and (iii) provision of small office
equipment/materials. Also included in this sub-component is the technical assistance for the
environmental screening/evaluation during the preparation of the CDP.
Component 2: Implementation of Pilot Operations (Total cost $3.9 million)
The component would support the implementation of pilot operations aimed at: (i) encouraging
participation of forestry and peri-forestry beneficiaries in forestry management and harvesting activities
through the establishment of pilot integrated development operations; (ii) reducing land fragmentation;
and (iii) increasing on and off-farm revenues through the promotion of micro-projects. The areas in
which these pilots would be implemented will be selected with beneficiary participation. The component
would have three key sub-components:
*   Pilot integrated development operations to supportforest dwelling communities to improve
their access to forest resources and contribute to the management of these resources through
funding for: (i) preparation of contextually broader CDP to include forested areas; (ii)
provision of forestry extension services and small equipment to increase beneficiary access
to forest management activities on an estimated 15,000 ha; and (iii) training and carrying out
of trials/demonstrations on improved forestry practices;
*   Pilot land consolidation  operations to facilitate/improve agricultural farming on
approximately 5,400 ha. The component would primarily finance: (i) information campaigns
for targeted communities; (ii) implementation of land consolidation and titling operations;
- 11 -



and (iii) construction of small access tracks to the consolidated lands to enhance benefits;
and
*   Promotion of micro-projects/enterprises would finance: (i) niche analysis to identify viable
micro-projects and enterprises; (ii) training of selected beneficiaries and ODESYPANO staff
in, amongst other things, project formulation, credit and market analysis; (iii) assistance to
beneficiaries for the preparation of technically and financially sound proposals for
presentation to financing institutions; and (iv) support to marketing (participation in fairs,
advice for processing/packaging, information on quality standards). The extent and success
of this sub-component will depend to a large extent on the availability and degree of access
by the populations to credit facilities.
Component 3: Agricultural and livestock development (Total cost $3.7 million)
This component would strengthen the extension services for better dissemination of improved technical
packages in crop production and livestock husbandry, including veterinary services. Technical packages
used would be adapted and/or derived from those that were prepared during the recently completed
NWDP. The three sub-components are:
*   Agricultural extension to producers: (i) updating and broadening of the technico-economic
reference manuals on agricultural technologies/practices; (ii) applied (short-duration, rapid
impact, demand-driven) research on production system diversification and improvement; (iii)
provision of training and demonstration equipment and materials to the extension services;
(iv) funding of small-scale investments to solve technical problems of broad local interest
(ex: seed processing/conservation and small machinery); and (v) specialized extension
services for milk production/processing;
*   Livestock development activities would consist of: (i) provision of training for inseminators;
(ii) provision of genitors (bulls, rams and billy-goats); and (iii) funding of selective
investments in animal health and bee-keeping; and
*   Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes which would also include community wells
and springs when appropriate. The scale of the works supported under the project would
depend on beneficiary demand.
Component 4: Sustainable natural resource management (Total cost $17.2 million)
The component would support the improvement of environmental and natural resources management by
concentrating on activities that the local beneficiaries can adapt, manage and maintain. In both the
improvement of pastures and rangelands and the agro-forestry sub-components, the project will
emphasize the use of species with a commercial value as an incentive for local community participation
as well as the "packaging" of conservation and revenue generation objectives to increase the potential for
sustainability. The significant size of this component in relation to the other components is a reflection
of the fragility of natural resources in the northwest region and the considerable effort still needed to
reach a satisfactory level of management. Three sub-components are envisaged:
*   Soil and water conservation consisting of civil works for: (i) controlling gully erosion,
mainly stone walls and plantations; and (ii) protecting against floods, mainly small dikes and
grass strips on private and state-owned lands;
*   Improvement of pastures and rangelands to support: (i) the establishment of pastures and
rangelands in degraded areas; and (ii) put back in use land areas that would have otherwise
been under or non utilized through the establishment of pastoral species, to reduce the
incidence of erosion and degradation; and
- 12 -



*   Agro-forestry development through the establishment of agro-forestry plantations as a
complementary measure for mechanical soil and water conservation activities. Particular
emphasis will be put on matching appropriate species with the existing ecosystems, to
improve the environmental management and commercial values of the plantations.
Component 5: Improvement of basic rural infrastructure (Total cost $16.7 million)
This component would support the rehabilitation and/or construction of basic rural infrastructure to
improve beneficiary community access to markets and social services in remotely located areas. The
project will not fund activities such as schools and clinics. Demands for either of these activities will be
transmitted to the respective Ministry for consideration and eventual financing. The component would
have two sub-components:
*   Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads. The estimated quantities of civil works are
based on estimates of the likely requests from the targeted communities and on assumptions
of cost-sharing with various other implementing agencies.
*   Improved access to potable water through the construction and/or rehabilitation of wells,
water cisterns and potable water connections.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of     financing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
1. Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and     3.36       7.5       2.20      6.5
partners
2. Implementation of Pilot Operations                 3.92       8.7      3.21       9.4
3. Agricultural and livestock development             3.69       8.2      2.57       7.6
4. Sustainable natural resources management          17.23      38.4     13.06      38.4
5. Improvement of basic rural infrastructure         16.66      37.1     12.96      38.1
Total Project Costs  44.86    100.0     34.00     100.0
Front-end fee   0.00       0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required   44.86     100.0     34.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government has taken the decision to support ODESYPANO through an additional 5-year project,
during which time it will be expected to start its evolution toward an agency with an increased rural
planning, monitoring and evaluation role and a diminishing implementation role for physical realizations.
However, a limited implementation role must be maintained to serve the remote areas where in many
cases ODESYPANO is the only agency in operation. The Government has made some important policy
changes that should contribute to the improvement of the socio-economic status of the beneficiaries in
Tunisia as a whole, and in particular in the northwest. The most important of those are: (i) the Decree
permitting the formation of formal community based socio-professional groups having a legal and
administrative structure which should increase the group's access to credit; (ii) the Decree that permits
forest communities to establish formal groups that can participate in forest management activities; and
(iii) a firm request to ODESYPANO to build partnerships with other development agencies in the region,
with a view to attaining implementation cost-effectiveness. There are no new policy reforms being
sought under this project although funding is provided for assisting ODESYPANO in adjusting its
institutional stnicture (organigram) to fit with its adjusted role. Specifically, two decisions. have been
taken: (a) to streamline and merge the existing six central directorates into four, to make them more
- 13-



efficient and suitable for ODESYPANO's changing role; and (b) to convert the existing 15 local
coordinators (whose functions can now be best carried out at the regional level) into advisory animators
(community development workers) to strengthen ODESYPANO's presence/workforce on the ground.
In addition, the Government has also endorsed key innovations under the project, aimed at encouraging
local community participation and disengagement of ODESYPANO from areas found to have adequate
capacity, based on an evaluation to be carried out at an agreed point during implementation. Decisions of
key importance include: (i) permitting beneficiary needs to define activities to be implemented rather
than using a predetermined fixed menu; and (ii) the use of an improved/expanded integrated participatory
approach to increase local community participation and hence the potential benefits accruing to the
communities.
At negotiation the following points were discussed and the Tunisian Government reiterated its
willingness to find adequate solutions:
*   Actively support the development of partnerships between ODESYPANO and other
development organizations in the northwest;
*   Find long-term practical solutions to the financing of maintenance activities for rural roads in
the northwest. The present ad hoc financing by ODESYPANO is not sustainable; one
estimate suggests that more than 20% of its annual budget goes to rural roads rehabilitation;
and
*   Adequately cater for the needs of manual workers declared redundant as part of
ODESYPANO's restructuring and reduced role in the carrying out of civil works.
With regards to the third point relating to the redeployment and or redundancy of manual workers in
surplus, the Government has selected the following formula: (i) redeploy workers to other Government
agencies; (ii) retire workers who have reached the mandatory retirement age; and/or (iii) make redundant
with compensation. The workers would be given the choice of land or compensation in accordance with
the regulations set by the Commission d'Assainissement et de Restructuration des Entreprises a
Participation Publique - CAREPP". Details of these options are set out in the redeployment study
carried out during project preparation "Etude de redeploiement du personnel ouvrier de l'ODESYPANO
et de liquidation transfert du materiel de chantier" which is presented as volume 4 of the Project
Implementation Plan. The Bank is not being requested to finance any of the compensation packages
which the Government will cover solely.
3. Benefits and target population:
Overall Benefits:
The project is expected to generate significant benefits in the form of: (i) increased agricultural and
non-agricultural revenues; (ii) improved access to infrastructure and other social services; (iii) improved
environmental conditions within the project areas; (iv) increased capability by ODESYPANO and its
partners to plan, implement and monitor rural development activities, using an integrated participatory
approach and through decentralized structures; (v) increased operational efficiency and cost-effectiveness
on the ground through partnerships with other rural development agencies, such as the CRDAs and
NGOs; and (vi) increased capability by the local communities to participate in the planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of developmental activities of immediate concern to them.
The benefits from the recently closed NWDP project, in which similar field activities were implemented,
gives an indication of the potential benefits that can be derived. For example: within 3.5 years of
- 14 -



implementation, the functional literacy rate of the target population rose by approximately 33 percent
(illiteracy fell from 60 to 41 percent); and family incomes from agricultural production on small farms
improved in real terms from TDI,1 13/yr at baseline to TDI,429/yr at the end of the project. Incomes
frorn medium farms improved from TD3,141 per year to TD4,135 per year. These represent real annual
growth rates of 6.3 and 6.9 percent for small and medium farms respectively.
Economic Benefits: The main quantifiable benefits would be derived from additional agricultural
production, rural infrastructure development and off-farm activities. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of the project is estimated to be about 16 percent over a period of 20 years, this rate being slightly more
sensitive to benefit shortfalls than to cost overruns. Preliminary calculations of the financial viability of
the various improved technical packages on offer under the project show attractive results in most cases,
although detailed calculations can only be carried out at the time of the preparation of the CDP once the
populations have expressed their choice for the activities they want to undertake. The overall benefits
derived from improved natural resource management are difficult to quantify, although perhaps equally
important. Moreover, the support to ODESYPANO will generate benefits going beyond the scope of the
project, particularly through the promotion of the Integrated Participatory Approach (API) to other
institutions.
Environmental benefits.  The environmental benefits, although not easily quantifiable should be
significant given the large number of activities aimed at improving: (i) natural resources management;
(ii) environmental management through reduced soil erosion and degradation; (iii) the adoption of better
management techniques that are compatible with the various agro-ecological zones and resources. In
addition, the integration of the environmental screening and assessment into activity planning and
implementation starting from the local community level allows the environmental activities to be
addressed as part of the investment package which is likely to be more acceptable to the local
populations.
Social benefits. The social benefits will accrue to the beneficiary populations at the individual level,
through their participation in micro-projects, diversification and intensification of agricultural production
systems and from improved basic rural infrastructure such as drinking cisterns. Benefits could be in the
form of increased revenues or improved living conditions. Benefits will also accrue to community
groups through a variety of activities such as, improved rural roads which open-up opportunities to
market their goods, access schools and clinics, increased access to forest management activities as small
private enterprises and from training sessions to improve their knowledge to operate as effective
development actors, including their negotiation with external institutional partners.
Institutional benefits. Institutional benefits will accrue at the national, regional and local levels. At the
national level, the use of the collaborative implementation approach should contribute to increased
development impact and cost effectiveness. With some adaptation, lessons learnt can also be replicated
nationally. In addition to the improved cost effectiveness and development capacity, the implementing
agencies will benefit from capacity building measures that improve their planning, implementation and
monitoring and evaluation competences. Moreover, by supporting implementation across sectors these
agencies develop the capacity to plan in an integrated manner which should further increase their impact
on the ground. At the regional and local levels, benefits will accrue to the decentralized implementing
offices through the training and capacity building measures that they participate in, as well as the
experience they gain from using an integrated participatory approach. Furthermore, the regional and
local levels will also benefit from increased capacity to operate in a decentralized manner, an important
step to increasing the participation of the local communities.
- 15-



Target population:
The project will cover two distinct sets of beneficiary populations in the five govemorates: (i) in the
actual intervention zones, a population estimated at around 190,000 inhabitants (38,000 households) and
a surface area of approximately 345,000 hectares, representing the aggregated areas covered by all
previous projects implemented by ODESYPANO including the recently closed NWDP; and (ii) in the
new intervention zones, a population of around 70,000 inhabitants and a surface area over 150,000
hectares. The social assessment carried out during project preparation shows that the populations in the
new zones consist of a relatively large number of young and landless people who contribute significantly
to the day-to-day activities in their douars but are not sufficiently integrated in the decision making
process. Unemployment and underemployment are high and the male household heads often temporarily
migrate to urban areas and abroad to increase household incomes.
The majority of these beneficiaries own their land, but there are also communally held areas and
state-owned forest areas. Land scarcity is an issue and the average cultivable/pasture land per person is
only 2.4 ha. Marginal lands on steep slopes are consequently being brought under production, which
results in the fragile soils being unprotected, easily eroded and in further siltation of the downstream
dams. This problem is compounded by inheritance practices that result in land fragmentation, leaving
many farms nonviable for farming under rainfed conditions. Land tenure, though primarily private, is
mainly without title, and it has been estimated that at least 72 percent of the land under 10 ha is not
registered versus 50 percent for land areas over 100 ha. Farming systems are predominantly mixed, with
over 60 percent of the households raising livestock. Meat and milk production is low due to inadequate
feed quality and quantity, a frequent lack of water (more because of poor water collection than a lack of
adequate rainfall) and the use of poor local livestock breeds. At least 30 percent of the cultivable area is
under cereals, another 30 percent is under fruit trees, 22 percent is left fallow, and the rest is either under
forage, pulses, fruits and vegetables, and industrial crops. Illiteracy in the target population is high,
particularly among women, which has hindered their participation in the decision making processes. A
detailed description of the target areas and beneficiary populations can be found in Annex 11.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination. Overall project coordination would be the responsibility of an Inter-ministerial
Committee chaired by the General-Directorate for Finance, Investment and Professional Organizations
(DGFIOP) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources (MAERH). The
MAERH is well staffed, technically sound and is supported by several research and training institutes.
Project coordination will also be ensured by the already-existing Enterprise (advisory) Committee of
ODESYPANO and a Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships (UPPAP) to
be created.
Project Implementation. Implementation would be the responsibility of the MAERH through the
central and regional directorates of ODESYPANO, the Regional and Local Councils, the village-based
development committees and the various partner implementing agencies (including the CRDAs, DGF,
OEP, AVFA, AFA and NGOs). ODESYPANO has a decentralized structure with headquarters in Beja
and regional offices in the five govemorates. The Project Coordination Unit, the existing PCU would be
responsible for monitoring implementation of the project. It could also offer assistance to the regional
offices and its partners on request. It is important to note that the PCU does not represent an entity
created specifically for the purposes of the project.
An important design feature to promote efficient implementation in ODESYPANO's changing
environment is the creation of UPPAP whose key mandate will be, as the name suggests, to promote the
Integrated Participatory Approach and explore partnership potentials with other agencies. In addition,
- 16 -



the Unit would be responsible for developing, fine-tuning and testing API methods and experimental
tools adapted to ODESYPANO's intervention zones. The mandate proposed for the unit is included in
Annex 12.
The four new directorates at the central level would be: (i) Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation
Department, which would be responsible for preparing the work programs and annual budgets based on
the activities to be implemented, monitor project implementation and evaluate the results; (ii) the merged
Community Development and Technical Assistance Department, which would be responsible for
developing project investment operational plans, community development aspects and the promotion and
capacity building of the socio-professional groups formed and local comnmunities; (iii) Financial Affairs
Department, which would be responsible for the financial and audit aspects of the project, purchase of
goods and services and management of ODESYPANO's resources; and (iv) Human Resources and
Training Department would be responsible for human resource issues and training. The responsibility
for the preparation and monitoring of the conventions signed with other agencies would fall under
UPPAP.
The programming/preparation of the day-to-day activities, as well as the M&E of the CDP and associated
contract programs, would be the primary responsibility of the regional offices. In addition, the regional
offices would also be involved in coordinating the preparation of the joint work program with the various
agencies, coordinate the activities of the multi-disciplinary specialists and the animators-advisers.
Maintenance and operation arrangements. The responsibilities for operations and maintenance costs
will depend on the investment type and financial resource availability of the beneficiaries. The
beneficiary will be expected to cover the maintenance costs for all investments on individual property,
whereas the community is expected to contribute in cash or in kind for the maintenance of activities on
communal property. During the project implementation period contributions for maintenance activities
will range from 5 to 20 percent (cash and kind) and the remaining costs would be covered by the agency
to whom the activity's implementation responsibility lies, for example, maintenance for roads would be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Territory Development (MEHAT),
ODESYPANO or the Conseil Regionaux et MAERH. The specific details will be discussed as part of the
negotiations with the local communities during CDP preparation. Experience of the population's ability
and willingness to participate in the maintenance of project activities from the previous project is
encouraging and the lessons learnt will be used accordingly.
Implementation through partnerships. ODESYPANO is expected to collaborate with various
agencies in three principal ways: (i) ODESYPANO transfers the implementation and maintenance
responsibility, including the cost outlay of certain activities to agencies having a higher comparative
advantage; (ii) sub-contracting the implementation of certain activities, while maintaining the budget
responsibilities; and (iii) implementing through conventions of collaboration. In all cases, planning
would be carried out jointly. In the case of the activities for which ODESYPANO would retain the
budget responsibility, ODESYPANO would also be responsible for the procurement, audit, overall
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and maintenance operations until they are transferred to another
agency or beneficiary population. Where feasible for activities jointly implemented by ODESYPANO
and the CRDA, the CRDA would be requested to carry out the procurement. The protocols established
for the various partnerships will specifically detail how M&E of the activity in question would be carried
out. The agencies that are likely to participate in project implementation are presented in Annex 12.
- 17-



Various NGOs will be invited to participate in project activities through signed conventions. However, a
majority of these NGOs will require capacity building before they can be fully effective. The capacity
building measures to be implemented will be based on the NGO's capacity assessment carried out during
project preparation.
Partnership collaboration in the field. Collaboration of most of the identified agencies, with the
exception of those providing training for ODESYPANO and partner agencies, will be integrated into the
CDP. During the identification stage of the CDP, potential partners (determined by the activities
demanded by the populations), would be invited to participate in the identification of priority activities as
well as to express their potential to fund and or provide technical assistance to the community. Because
activities identified in the CDP will be implemented over a five-year period through the one-year CP not
all partners would be involved in the implementation of a single CDP/CP at any one time. Experience
from elsewhere on similar collaborative actions has shown that this integrated approach is feasible at the
regional and or local level, although it could be more difficult on a national level. Moreover, some of
these agencies have had some interaction already with ODESYPANO which should facilitate
collaboration in the field. It is therefore not expected that collaborative implementation of the project
will be overly complex.
To increase the potential of each partner to follow-through on their pledge to provide money or services,
ODESYPANO and the partners will jointly prepare and sign a yearly operational program based on the
CDP to be implemented which would subsequently be monitored by both sides. The CP would be
co-signed by the local communities, ODESYPANO and participating partners to guarantee each partners'
commitment to realizing the activities in the CP.
Local communities. The local communities would participate through the informal CD or formal
socio-professional organizations (mainly GDA and GFIC). The CDP remains the main framework in
which their demands are expressed and subsequently implemented through the yearly contract-programs
(CP) signed with ODESYPANO. The local communities would be expected to contribute to the
financing of the field realizations both financially and or in kind, on a scale to be agreed between the
population and ODESYPANO.     In addition, for certain activities, such as agro-forestry, forest
silvicultural treatments and soil and water conservation activities, community groups would either be
contracted directly, or they would bid as small private enterprises (tdcherons). In addition, individuals
having adequate capacity to implement proposed activities would also be eligible to bid. Experience from
the recently completed project, NWDP, and the Second Forestry Development Project found that the
competition generated from the bidding process by the tacherons contributed to lower investments costs
with little impact on the quality of the output. Implementation arrangements at the community level will
also ensure that attention is paid to the special needs of women. The gender issue was a key area of
focus in the NWDP and although women benefited from project activities the efforts were inadequate.
The chief constraint was that women were not integrated into the overall project design, rather the project
aimed to address their needs through the micro-enterprise component which was limited in size, choice of
activities and hence impact. Although women's needs will also be addressed through the micro-enterprise
component, the project approach will be to integrate women into all project activities. Mechanisms for
increasing their participation are presented in the section describing the participatory approach: Section
6.2.
Implementation agencies by component
A detailed description of the agencies that are expected to collaborate with ODESYPANO - and in what
capacity by component - can be found in Annex 2 and it is briefly discussed below. Because local
communities will be involved in the implementation of all components, they will not be mentioned in the
- 18 -



description below. It is also possible that other agencies could be identified during the project's
implementation. For the most part, collaboration between Government agencies would be through
conventions while those with private companies and the populations would be through contracts. To
address the differences in the implementation capacity of the various participating agencies the project
will finance capacity building measures. In addition and specifically for training, the project will finance
the participation of qualified technical assistance for the preparation of training modules and/or carrying
out the training.
Component 1: Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners. The International Center
for Technology and the Environment of Tunis (Centre international de technologie de l1environnement
de Tunis, CITET) and various NGOs for environmental training (in addition to the private
consultants/firms involved in the implementation of this component).
Component 2: Implementation of Pilot Operations. CITET for natural resources and environmental
training; DGF, AFA and the CRDA for the pilot operations; The Rimel Agricultural Professional
Training Center (Centre deformation professionel agricole de Rimel, CFPAR) for training beneficiaries
on forest management techniques in collaboration with NGOs.
Component 3: Agricultural and livestock development. The Agency for Agricultural Extension and
Training (Agence de vulgarisation et de formation agricole, AVFA) for capacity building of CD and
socio-professional organizations; the Institute for Agricultural Research and Higher Education, (
Institution de Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles, IRESA) for research activities; and
the Office for Livestock and Pasture (OEP) for the provision of extension services regarding milk
production, processing and marketing.
Component 4: Sustainable natural resources management. The Local Services in the CRDAs for
civil works and for soil and water conservation, for large-scale soil and water conservation works (in
addition to the private contractors for the smaller-scale works).
Component 5: Improvement of basic rural infrastructure. The Regional Departments of Equipment
and Housing (Directions Regionales de l'Equipement, de l'Habitat et de l'Amengement des Territoires,
DREHAT) for roads, and the CRDAs - Genie Rural (CRDA-GR) for potable water activities.
Arrangements for ODESYPANO's disengagement. The underlying objective of using an integrated
participatory approach and involving the populations in all activities is to increase the sustainability of
the activities, but also to build enough capacity in the participating populations to effectively take charge
of their development at some point. The implication is that ODESYPANO would, once sufficient
capacity exists in the local communities, disengage and let the populations take over. To encourage this
development, the project would actively assist the,communities in the preparation and implementation of
the basic (first generation) CDP as well as the first three years of the consolidating (second generation)
CDP. From the 4th year of a consolidating CDP, the formulation/implementation of the CP would be
organized by the relevant CRDA in collaboration with the communities, ODESYPANO limiting itself to
providing assistance if and when needed. From the 5th year, the communities should be capable of
organizing the formulation/implementation of the CP with the assistance of the CRDA, ODESYPANO
becoming one other partner agency for the beneficiaries and CRDA to call upon when needed.
Financial management. The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at ODESYPANO, is based
on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to state owned and autonomous
companies (Etablissement Public a caractere Non-Administratif - EPNA). ODESYPANO maintains a
computerized accounting system according to the national accounting law issued in 1996, in compliance
with the.Intemational Accounting Standards. The current accounting system is also "project oriented", to
allow close monitoring of the large number of financing sources channeling through ODESYPANO. The
- 19-



internal control mechanism in place at ODESYPANO and its four regional structures is adequate and
allows for monitoring of the operational activity with an acceptable low management risk. In fact very
few weaknesses and inadequacies were reported by the external auditor in previous management letters.
The existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU), has acquired significant experience from its
implementation of several donor-funded projects, including the Bank. The system in place is also used to
control eligibility of expenditures, compliance with legal documents and donor requirements at
budgeting, procurement and disbursement stages. The Central Bank of Tunisia is the authorized
institution, acting on behalf of MOF to carry out payments from special accounts and to submit to the
Bank Statement of Expenditures (SOE) and Withdrawal Applications (WA). Direct payments are
handled by ODESYPANO. More details on the financial management arrangements can be found in
annex 6.
Accounting and flnancial reporting. The Accounting and Financial Department (FD) of
ODESYPANO, will be responsible for current and specific financial and accounting duties covering all
the project activities according to the flow of funds and flow of documents analyses. Regional
Directorates, involved in project implementation would maintain simplified accounts and carry out
analyses of activities managed under their responsibility. Such reports would be sent periodically with
supporting documents to the PCU for transmnittal and processing by FD. FD would be responsible for
aggregating the financial data and the issuance of the annual project Financial Statements and bi-annual
Financial Monitoring Report as well as their submission to the Bank through the PCU. The newly created
UPPAP, with the support of the internal audit department will play an important supervisory and control
role for activities to be implemented through conventions of partnership.
Audit. The auditor appointed for the audit of the corporate annual financial statement will carry out the
annual project financial statement. These audit statements will be carried out in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's
Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH") and specific Terms
of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the
annual project financial statements that will be submitted to the Bank in an annual audit report carried
out within six months of the close of each fiscal year. Special attention will be paid to activities
implemented through partnership agreements.
Monitoring, evaluation arrangements and mid-term review. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of
each of the financial, physical, development and project objectives will be the responsibility of the
respective Directorates in ODESYPANO that are charged with their implementation. M&E will be based
on indicators developed during preparation, and others that may be added during implementation. The
Director of ODESYPANO will be the overall Bank focal point and will be responsible, together with the
UCP in ensuring that the project is on target to attaining project development objectives. The PCU
would also be responsible for organizing the mid-term review as well as the transmittal of agreed
periodic reports to the Bank. The monitoring of progress on arising policy or institutional issues would
also be the responsibility of the PCU.
Project activity monitoring channel. At the local level, the beneficiary communities would monitor
project activities in collaboration with the animators/animatrices and subject-matter specialists.
Beneficiary feedback would be obtained through regular surveys, focus group discussions, informal
gatherings and field visits with a representative population group. The information would be deposited at
the regional directorates and would be forwarded to the Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation
Directorate. Validation of information will be the responsibility of the respective Directorate and/or
Division responsible for the activity's implementation, for example, the Community Development and
- 20 -



Technical Assistance Department for activities on improved agricultural production techniques, the
Financial Department for financial information and the Procurement Service for procurement matters.
The information once compiled and analyzed will be used for planning purposes and it will be
disseminated for use in improving activity implementation and monitoring of targets. With regards to the
conventions, the newly created unit UPPAP, would be responsible for monitoring implementation
progress on the overall convention but not the physical and financial issues which would be monitored by
the various partners following the same procedure as for all the project activities. The partner agencies
will also be requested to provide a contact point based on type of activity from whom monitoring
information would originate.
Participatory monitoring feedback mechanisms. The beneficiaries will have the opportunity to give
feedback on project implementation through several channels. The first will be through the focus groups,
and field visits that they will be involved in. In addition, in the CDP and CP a contact name will be
provicded to which the Development Committee (DC) can express its concerns and dissatisfaction with
the program or activity execution. These concerns and the measures undertaken would periodically be
transmitted to the Central office in Beja for validation. Furthermore, the local communities will also
have the opportunity to register their dissatisfaction with the project activities through the local and
regional councils.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). A LIL was not an appropriate instrument given that the
proposed project is a follow-up to two earlier Bank-assisted projects in the same region and significant
amounts of information and lessons learnt already exist that can be used directly to contribute to the
project's design.  In addition, project preparation was sufficiently detailed to provide sufficient
complementary information.
Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The APL was not considered appropriate by the Government
preferring instead to implement a 5-year project. It was felt that the Government's efforts to increase
collaboration between various agencies working in the region, if successful, would create an enabling
environment for long term regional development planning and implementation among all actors, which
would ultimately be similar to programmatic planning and implementation.
Inclusion of project activities in the recently negotiated agricultural services project. The
Government requested that the ASSP concentrate on small to medium scale farmers with potential for
commercial agriculture, whereas the intervention area for this project is primarily marginal areas.
ODESYPANO has been operating in similarly marginal areas for over two decades and they have
developed methodologies and techniques that could be of benefit to these areas. It is likely, however,
that through the partnerships to be developed with other agencies, the proposed project would interface
with the ASSP.
No follow-up project. This scenario was rejected for a number of reasons: (i) pockets of poverty still
exist in the northwest; (ii) the results of previous projects, in particular that of the NWDP, have shown
that the use of a participatory approach and intensive extension services can result in a potentially
significant positive impact on the socio-economic status of the target populations; (iii) activities
implemented in the region have resulted in improved natural resources; and (iv) the Government has
made some policy changes in the agricultural sector, land consolidation and organization of local
community groups that have potential for high social impact if well applied. In addition, ODESYPANO
as an organization, holds important information, in particular on the use of the integrated participatory
approach, that could benefit other agencies involved in rural development. The Government is therefore
- 21 -



actively promoting the development of partnerships between the various organizations to build synergy,
rather than dismantling ODESYPANO.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Sustainable resource use, poverty  Natural Resources              S             S
reduction                        Management Project (Ln. 4162,
$26.5 m, ongoing)
Sector policy adjustment and     ASIL (Ln. 3661, completed)       S             S
investment
Sector policy adjustment and     ASIL2 (Ln. 4278, $42.0 m,        S             S
investment                        ongoing)
Water resource management and    WSIL (Ln. 7025, $103.0 m,        S             S
conservation                      ongoing)
Natural resources management     Second Forestry Development      S             S
Project (Ln. 3601, $69.0 m,
closed May, 2001)
Natural resources management     Northwest Mountainous Areas      S             S
Development Project (Ln.
3691, $27.5 m, closed June,
2001)
Improved agricultural services   Agricultural Support Services
provision                        Project (Ln. 7063, $21.3 m,
ongoing)
Biodiversity conservation        Protected Areas Management
Project (recently presented to
the Board)
Other development agencies
Sustainable resource use, poverty  Sejenane Integrated
reduction                        Development Project
(completed)
Sustainable resource use, poverty  Jendouba Forestry Zones
reduction                        Development Project
(completed)
Natural resources management     Jendouba Forestry Glade
Project (ongoing)
Poverty reduction, socio-economic  Siliana Integrated Development
infrastructure building.         Project (ongoing)
Forestry management, community   Integrated Forestry
participation in forestry management  Management Project (ongoing)
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 22 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of the project reflects numerous lessons learnt in order to maximize benefits to the
beneficiaries and improve the likelihood of attaining the set objectives. These lessons have been derived
from the implementation of the previous Bank-assisted projects and from similar projects in Tunisia
implemented by the Bank or other donors. The key lessons are discussed below:
* Northwest Development Projects. Both the first (Ln. 1997-TUN) and the second (Ln
3691-TUN) Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Projects were rated "satisfactory"
for their achievement of the development objectives. The first project significantly improved
the beneficiaries' access to basic social services and the rural infrastructure, but its overall
impact on the beneficiaries"capacity to participate effectively in rural development activity
planning and implementation was limited. The second Bank-assisted project was designed to
improve on this shortcoming by including local community participation. Key lessons drawn
from these projects are that: (i) to increase the impact of the participatory approach, local
community, civil society and other stakeholder input must be directly involved from the early
design stages of the project; (ii) beneficiary ownership is highest when activities are
demand-driven; (iii) people are generally more concerned with investments that result in
immediate benefits than with improving environmental and natural resources management,
and as such, these investments must be integrated into an overall "package"; (iv)
development and adoption of an integrated participatory approach must be accompanied by
adequate capacity building activities, particularly training, to ensure that users and
beneficiaries understand their respective roles and responsibilities in achieving the desired
goals; (v) women extension agents are necessary to ensure women's participation in projects;
(vi) it is extremely difficult to reach the young and the landless, this section of the population
must be-carefully targeted; (vii) small private enterprises can carry out project activities and
deliver work of a high quality at lower costs, provided they are given proper guidance and
support; (viii) to promote land consolidation it is important to provide incentives such as land
titling. Although the land consolidation activity was entirely demand-driven, the provision
of titles on consolidated lands was a major incentive as it offered security on the newly
consolidated lands; (ix) in the case of rural roads, it is very important that there is a clear
indication of the agency/ies that would be responsible for maintenance after project
completion; (x) to improve access by local communities to rural credit it is important that the
legal framework exists or is in place prior to project implementation.
*   Forestry Development Projects (LN. 2870-TUN and LN. 3601-TUN).     As with the
northwest projects, both Bank-assisted Forestry Development Projects were rated
"satisfactory" for their achievement of development objectives. The first project resulted in
substantial increases of forested areas, but again, like the northwest project, it did not include
local community participation which reduced its impact on the socio-economic development
of the beneficiaries. To achieve sustainable management and the development of the forest
resources, local community participation was included in the Second Forestry Development
Project. Key lessons drawn from the project are that: (i) decentralization of project
management functions can lead to more efficient project implementation; (ii) including the
participation of numerous small private enterprises, with adequate guidance and support
from the implementing agency, can significantly reduce costs without compromising the
quality of the work; (iii) important legislative changes should be made within the framework
of broader policy adjustments rather than on an ad hoc basis - for example, requesting an
exemption for the implementation of an activity without seeking permanent changes may
actually impede long-term sustainability; (iv) where the utilization of a participatory
- 23 -



methodology is new for the implementing agency and the communities involved, a phased
approach should be used to allow "learning by doing", and the capacity building measures
should  include   techniques  for  knowledge-sharing,  consensus-building,  and
conflict-resolution mechanisms; and (v) technical assistance from an external agency should
be considered when designing a participatory methodology, to compliment in-house capacity,
but the TA must be sufficiently present in the field to ensure the practicality of the proposed
methodology.
*   Agriculture Sector Investment Loan (LN. 3661-TUN). This project was satisfactorily
completed, and several key lessons derived from its implementation have been incorporated
in this project: (i) when several agencies are involved in project implementation, there is
need for a high degree of coordination to ensure effective planning, implementation and
M&E; and (ii) the lack of a consultative process with the beneficiaries, when selecting
investment activities, can result in inappropriate technical choices and inflated benefit
estimates.
*   Natural Resources Management Project (LN. 4162-TUN). The project, is still ongoing
and it is in a satisfactory status. Key lessons applied relate to the inclusion of local
communities in sustainable natural resources management. Three key lessons are of direct
relevance to the proposed project are: (i) to use the participatory approach effectively
requires adequate staffing capacity in the implementing agency; (ii) inducing participation
can be a long-termn process requiring intensive consultations and negotiations with the local
communities from the early design stages; and (iii) to benefit women beneficiaries requires
that "their" activities are well integrated into the overall project activities.
*   Other lessons applied: (i) It is important to have good project information and management
tools, particularly adequate management and geographic information systems to assist the
Project Implementing Unit in planning, monitoring and evaluating the project; (ii) the
implementing agency must be encouraged to "self-evaluate" systematically as the results
often serve as an incentive to improve; (iii) the experience from projects elsewhere has
shown that by establishing partnerships, a project is able to enlarge its coverage of the local
communities as well as improve implementation coherence between different agencies and
implementation cost effectiveness; (iv) any research carried out must be based on surveyed
farmer needs and priorities; and (v) the dissemination of improved technical packages can be
enhanced when farners are involved in the selection of demonstration plots, and better still
when these plots are on farmer's lands.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
On a country macro-level, Tunisia is fully committed to continuing its efforts to achieve sustainable
economic development, while increasing standards of living and reducing poverty in the country as a
whole, and in particular in the northwest where a significant part of the population remains among the
poorest. The Govemments' commitment to achieving this goal is expressed in its 10th Economic and
Social Development Plan (2002-2006). In addition, the Government has consistently followed through on
its pledge to achieving sustainable development by making available adequate personnel and financing,
thereby ensuring satisfactory implementation. As a result, the overall portfolio of rural development
projects in Tunisia is satisfactory.
On a project level, the Government has demonstrated its commitment through several decisions that it
has taken to facilitate the preparation of the project: (i) financing of a feasibility study prior to engaging
in discussions with the Bank on a new project. The study subsequently served as a basis for the project's
- 24 -



preparation; (ii) pledging its support for a third phase as well as committing itself to review
ODESYPANO's operational mandate, and encouraging partnerships with other development agencies
with a view to improving implementation cost-effectiveness and development efficiency; (iii) carrying
out extensive inter-ministerial meetings to discuss the future direction of ODESYPANO; and (iv)
reqtiesting the Bank for a PHRD grant and seeking a direct contract with FAO to expedite project
preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank and Tunisia have, over the past two decades, built strong working relationships and these have
been particularly successful in the agriculture sector. The Bank has made technical assistance, as well as
information on lessons learnt and best practices from the region and the world as a whole, available to
Tunisia. Tunisia has also benefited from valuable co-financing and parallel financing leveraged by the
Bank's presence in the country. In the context of the proposed project, the Bank would continue to
provide these services. In addition, the Bank would continue to support Tunisia's commitment to
increasing the sustainability of investments through its encouragement of local community participation
and provision of funds for the enhancement of the integrated participatory approach.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
*  Cost benefit    NPV=US$8.3 million; ERR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The estimation of the quantifiable benefits is based on production models differentiated according to the
three agro-ecological zones in the project area (Mogods-Kroumirie, semi-humid and semi-arid). The
main products taken into account are olives, durum wheat, barley, fava beans, horse beans, chickpeas,
lentils, potatoes, oats, other forage products including pastures, wood and crop by-products, mainly
straNv. Indirectly, the benefits from increased soil fertility induced by project interventions are quantified
in the expected increased yields. Increases in livestock production, mainly meat and dairy products, are
assumed to be reflected in the increased forage production. In addition, a substantial part of the project
benefits will be in the form of improvements in the management of natural resources and in the basic
rural infrastructure, as well as in the form of institutional strengthening (both at the governmental and
local levels). Benefits of this type are difficult to quantify at this stage but are discussed in qualitative
terms in the annex. Preliminary analysis shows that the ERR is slightly more sensitive to benefit
shortfalls than to cost overruns, which underlines the importance of selecting carefully the technical
packages to be disseminated through the extension services.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A single project level FRR is not presented as the financial impact of the project is at the farm level.
Benefits from research findings are essentially in the form of diffusion of improved technologies which
entail increased operating costs but do not necessarily require farm-level investments. Hence, financial
analysis focuses upon the profitability of crops supported by the project. Increases in net revenues before
and after the project were calculated for all crops and FRR were calculated for those crops requiring
investments, namely, olive trees and pastoral interventions. On financial returns based on individual
crops, increases in net revenues ranged from 5 percent for durum wheat in Mogods-Kroumirie to more
than 100 percent for irrigated bersim in the sub-humid zone. For olives, the FRR ranged from 20 to 42
percent. For pastoral interventions, the FRR and increases in net revenues were quite high. The FRR
- 25 -



ranged from 25 to 147 percent, whereas increases in net revenues ranged from 120 to more than 200
percent.
This crop-based approach, rather than one based on farm models such as those used appropriately in
irrigation investments, was adopted for two reasons. First, in a demand driven participatory approach, a
farm model type approach would have been counter-intuitive. Second, experience has shown that the
focus on the farm model type impacts have led field staff to focus on target farms at the expense of
promoting diffusion effects, so as to establish that M&E criteria are achieved. Hence, it is proposed in
the present project that M&E will focus on the larger diffusion effect as well as the impact on targeted
farms. In this M&E context, specific representative farm models will be developed to assess differential
impacts on farm households, particularly on household incomes.
Although there are no reliable data on household income levels for the northwest in general, the yearly
total expenditures per household are estimated to be around DT500 on average, with the poorest segment
of the populations at about 60 percent of the average or DT300. The average increase in net revenues per
ha, with the project, would vary between a minimum of DT13 for wheat in the Mogods-Kroumirie region
and a maximum of DT 683 for fodder crops also in the Mogods-Kroumirie region. Recent site-specific
socio-economic surveys suggest that agricultural production generates a substantial part of the household
incomes, from 40 percent in the Kroumirie to 80 percent in Southern Beja. Cash transfers from emigrants
are an important source of family income. Moreover, livestock production often constitutes more than 40
percent of the agricultural incomes, even more than 80 percent in Sejanane where pastures prevail. For
illustrative purposes, when taking into account the different farm sizes by region - from 1.6 ha of
agricultural land per household in Sejenane to 15 ha in Southern Beja - additional agricultural
production with the project could more than double the household incomes (using the expenditures as
proxy), albeit starting from a low level without project. Not included in these calculations are the
potential incomes from off-farm activities as promoted under the project, particularly in marginal areas
where agricultural productivity will always be low mainly because of the poor soils. It is expected that
off-farm incomes, mainly in some areas not too far from urban centers, could be as important as those
from agriculture.
Fiscal Impact:
Recurrent costs after the project investment period are estimated to be around US$ 0.5 million per year in
constant prices. The recurrent costs related to the institutional support to ODESYPANO after the
investment period are equivalent to slightly more than US$ 0.12 million per year and represent less than
5 percent of ODESYPANO's current operation budget, and are therefore sustainable. The recurrent costs
related to the improvement of rural infrastructure are slightly more than US$ 0.27 million per year and
will need to be shared among the beneficiaries and relevant public agencies. Fiscal revenues have not
been calculated as agricultural products are not subject to taxation.
3. Technical:
The project will be implemented in a wide range of areas, from the very marginal, both in
socio-economic and agro-ecological terms, to the Mogods-Kroumirie where the conditions are relatively
better. As would be expected, variations will also occur in the degree of improvement in agricultural
production deriving from the adoption of improved technologies/practices in these areas. The main
limiting technical factors are likely to be the poor soils, small farm sizes and the erratic climatic
conditions, together with the risk-averse nature of the small-scale farmers. In the areas with extremely
fragile soils, the benefits are likely to originate as much from off-farm activities as from additional
agricultural production. Yield estimates have taken into consideration regional and temporal
agro-climatic variation.
- 26 -



The applied research carried out will be completely demand-driven and short-term in nature, so as to
ensure that the results are quickly incorporated into project activities. Research topics would emphasize
the diversification of agricultural systems, the ecosystem matching of crops and the development of
environment-friendly techniques. As part of the applied research and extension activities, the project
would also aim to improve the dissemination of these techniques to the beneficiaries while taking into
account the need to match their socio-economic status and the technologies developed.
4. Institutional:
The Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources would be the responsible agency.
Overall project coordination would be under the auspices of an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the
General-Directorate for Financing, Investment and Professional Organizations of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project implementation would be the overall responsibility of ODESYPANO, in partnership with a
number of governmental and non-governmental organizations, as well as with the CD representing the
beneficiary populations. Main governmental agencies to be involved in project implementation are: (i)
CRDA for natural resource management; (ii) DGF and CRDA for forestry management; (iii) DREHAT
for road rehabilitation and construction; (iv) OEP for pasture and livestock activities; (v) IRESA for
research activities; (vi) AVFA for capacity building; (vii) AFA for land consolidation activities; (viii)
BTS for credit operations; and (ix) CITET for training on environmental matters. The main
non-governmental agencies involved include the beneficiary CD, various socio-professional groups
(mainly GDA) and NGOs. Some consultant firms will also be involved. More information on the
institutional and executing arrangements is presented in Annexes 2 and 12.
4.2 Project management:
Implementation capacity
ODESYPANO has significant experience in implementing Bank-assisted projects. However, the shift in
ODESYPANO's operating mandate towards more planning, programming and M&E activities, with a
reduction in implementing large investments, requires that its staff benefit from training and capacity
building activities. This is particularly pertinent as ODESYPANO will now have to operate with a wide
variety 6f partners. The use of conventions and contracts as a collaboration method does not overly
complicate the project for ODESYPANO given that it has some experience working with other
structures, and it also possesses sufficient implementation capacity. In addition, and as explained earlier,
not all partners will be involved in a single CDP or CP at any one time as the activities selected depend
on beneficiary demands and phase of CDP implementation. Partners will participate when an activity
requiring their respective competency is being implemented. Potential partner agencies/institutions are
described below:
o   CRDA constitute the main structures of the MAERH at the regional level. Each CRDA is
composed of five divisions (reflecting those at the MAERH level), with each division being
subdivided into two or three specialized services. The CRDA are given substantial
human/budgetary resources which allow them to play an important role in rural development.
There is one CRDA in each of the five govemorates of the northwest and they all have shown
interest in collaborating with ODESYPANO.
o   DGF is a general-directorate of the MAERH and its mandate is to protect/manage the forest
-27 -



domain of the State as well as other forested areas subject to the forest code. It implements
forestry activities through the forestry service housed in the CRDA. DGF also has significant
experience in implementing Bank-assisted projects.
*   DREHAT constitute the main structures of the Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Territory
Development at the level of the govemorate. Each DREHAT is composed of a study & control
unit as well as of five services in charge of different fields of activities, including the
construction/ maintenance of the country's road network. The Ministry has significant
experience in implementing foreign donors-assisted projects.
o   OEP is a public agency under the jurisdiction of the MAERH and its mandate is essentially to
improve the overall productivity of livestock and fodder resources country-wide. The human and
budgetary resources at its disposal are substantial and the Office also has significant experience
in implementing foreign donor-assisted projects.
*   AVFA is another public agency under the jurisdiction of the MAERH and its mandate is mainly
to contribute to the formulation/carrying out of the Government's policy concerning agricultural
extension. At the regional level, the agency operates through the CRDA and it also runs schools
and training centers.
*   AFA is another public agency under the jurisdiction of the MAERH and its mandate is to carry
out the Government's agrarian reform in the irrigated perimeters and also (since 2000) in the
rainfed areas. The agency operates regional services in each governorate.
*   BTS is a national development bank created in 1998 for the purpose of promoting
micro-projects/enterprises in urban as well as rural areas. It operates at the regional level through
units located in each govemorate. The Arab Funds for Economic and Social Development
recently made large financial contributions to BTS.
Overall, the smooth/successful implementation of the project will depend on the effectiveness of the
partnerships established.
Monitoring and evaluation capacity.
The monitoring and evaluation of the project activities will be the overall responsibility of
ODESYPANO. The M&E Unit of the Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate of
ODESYPANO     will be directly in charge of the M&E. The rnid-term  and post-implementation
evaluations would be carried out with the assistance of private national consultants under the guidance of
the Directorate.
Impact ohi staffing.
Project implementation would not require any additional staff. However, the planned adjustments in the
organization of ODESYPANO would result in a number of changes in the job descriptions/positions. The
exact nature of these changes would only be known at the beginning of proj- ct implementation when
ODESYPANO is being reorganized. But it is possible that some staff members would need to be
redeployed into other structures of the MAERH and professionals with new qualifications transferred
from other structures, perhaps from other ministries. MAERH would need to take appropriate action at
that time.
4.3 Procurement issues:
ODESYPANO has successfully carried out all the necessary procurement procedures in the previous
Bank-assisted projects and no major issues are foreseen. A procurement assessment was carried out at
pre-appraisal, and the result was overall positive. The procurement assessment is filed in the project
- 28 -



documents. In addition, the first year's procurement programming, including terms of references have
been prepared and agreed upon with the Borrower. Bidding documents for the first year's contracts will
be completed by effectiveness. For ICB and Request for Proposals for consultant services the relevant
Bank's Standard Documents will be used. A sample of the NCB documents to be used will be cleared by
the Bank prior to launching the first contract and the approved document will serve as the standard NCB
document for the project.
Counterpart funding for the first year. The Government has given its assurances that sufficient
counterpart funding for the first year of the project will be made available. Counterpart funding from
local communities will be linked to activities in the CDP/CP, and will therefore be discussed during
CDP/CP preparation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management system in place was reviewed with the objective of determining whether the
project had in place adequate financial management arrangements as required by the Bank under OP/BP
10.02. The assessment, which included visits to ODESYPANO, was oriented on the accounting system,
intemal control mechanisms, planning and budgeting capacity, and financial reporting capabilities for use
during project implementation. In addition, a format and the contents of the project Financial Monitoring
Report (FMR) were submitted to the Bank and discussed. The financial management arrangements
suggested for the project satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
computerized accounting system currently in place will be used to generate the agreed FMR.
The risks identified were classed as medium, and related to: (i) the involvement of several actors which
requires strong coordination and could also imply intensified controls; and (ii) the proposed changes in
ODESYPANO's organization and management information system as part of the capacity building
activities. Care must be taken during the migration of data/information to the new system. The first risk
would be mitigated by: (i) the preparation and use of detailed conventions that protect ODESYPANO;
and (ii) the issuance of well defined rules and procedures for partnerships including visits, controls, and
post audit of transactions, This will require adequate advisory services to coach ODESYPANO on the
changes and reduction of negative impacts on operations while ODESYPANO adapts to the new
structure and upgraded management information system.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is classified as B under OP4.01 because only limited potential impacts are anticipated,
mainly related to small civil works involved with construction of rural infrastructure facilities. Potential
minor environmental impacts may result from rural roads construction and or rehabilitation, creation of
small mechanical soil and water conservation structures and from the establishment of small-scale
irrigated perimeters if their design and implementation is not well conceived. No major potential large
scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts expected to result from project implementation.
The limited potential impacts will be identified in individual sub-projects through a screening procedure
carried out during project implementation. The screening procedure involves analysis of each sub-project
prior to the financing approval and the environmental procedures are fully detailed in the EA report,
which in turn is integrated into the project Operations Manual. For sub-projects identified as having
several potential inputs, a specific sub-project EA will be carried out as part of the feasibility and
technical assessments. Even when a specific sub-project EA is not required, a rapid EA appraisal will be
-29-



carried out to ensure that there would be no unforeseen potential risks. The project will also be
supporting the development of an M&E plan, in which environmental indicators would be included in
the CDP.
The EA was carried out in parallel with the social assessment which permitted beneficiary feedback on
their perceptions of potential impacts on project activities on the environment. The EA summary, which
includes the potential impacts, anticipated generic mitigation measures, the training and capacity building
program and the environmental monitoring plan is provided in Annex 13 to this report. A brief analysis
of the potential environmental impacts by project component is provided below:
*   Component 1: Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners. A particular
emphasis will be given to increasing CRDA capacity to use the Integrated Participatory
Approach (API) in their interventions. Staff from CRDA and other partners will be involved
from the early stages of CDP programming and planning in collaboration with
ODESYPANO. It is expected that the CRDA of Jendouba, in particular, which has been
promoting an integrated participatory approach under the Natural Resource Management
Project also supported by the World Bank, will act as a model in the adoption of the
approach by other CRDA in the region. No environmental issues are expected. Instead, the
component would support institutional strengthening of ODESYPANO to carry out or
comnmnission environmental assessments. The EA process will be fully integrated into the
preparation of project activities, including at the CDP level. The component would finance
training and sensitization activities for the targeted beneficiaries as well as for
ODESYPANO's personnel and CRDAs on priority-setting for CDP formulation and
implementation, the importance of monitoring and evaluating environmental aspects in order
to increase the potential for sustainability of their investments.
*   Component 2: Implementation of Pilot Operations. These activities are expected to be
largely positive.  The sub-components provide for significant capacity building and
environmental training for the implementing agencies. Specifically, for the pilot integrated
development operations to support forest dwelling communities, the project would aim to
improve natural resource management by including local communities in their planning and
management, as well as sensitizing the beneficiaries to the importance and benefits of their
participation in improving forest resources management; with respect to the land
consolidation activities, a rapid environmental assessment will be carried out to assess
potential negative environmental impacts and altematives would be explored as needed; for
the promotion of micro-projects/enterprises, the necessity for environmental assessments
would be determined by the activity, for example, a rapid assessment may be done on the
adequacy of feed if livestock were proposed or an assessment for hygiene standards for a
milk collection center or other food transformation center.
*   Component 3: Agricultural and pastoral development. The results of this component will
be largely positive, given its emphasis on improved technical capacities that aim at
improving agricultural production and natural resource management. The diversification
activity will encourage the matching of ecosystems and crops/crop trees. Limited
understanding of the use of technical packages, or poor matching of species or tree crops,
could potentially result in poor soil management which could cause accelerated or
accentuated soil erosion and or degradation. The project will minimize this risk by carrying
out environmental assessments at the CDP level in parallel with the technical assessments.
Issues related to an increased use of pesticides and/or fertilizers are not expected to be
significant for a number of reasons: (i) the project will not finance the use of chemicals; (ii)
- 30 -



MAERH has been promoting the use of integrated pest management without chemical use;
(iii) the project would finance a comprehensive monitoring system which would cover issues
such as the use of chemicals with the view to addressing the problems if and as soon as they
become apparent; (iv) among the topics covered, as part of the environmental management
and natural resources management modules, would be biological and sanitary measures of
pest control; (v) the component will finance the updating and enlargement of the
technico-economic reference manuals prepared during the NWDP, in which natural resource
management friendly packages have been developed for use in the northwest region; and (vi)
the project would finance improved livestock health and prophylactic activities, which
should result in improved human health.
*   Component 4: Sustainable natural resource management. The project component has
been developed with the objective of slowing and/or reversing the degradation of natural
resources, particularly that caused by soil erosion which remains a maj or environmental
issue.  The component would employ both mechanical and biological erosion-control
measures to slow down runoff and improve water resource use on steep slopes. In addition to
improving erosion control, the component would also seek to provide benefits to the
participating communities by promoting the use of commercial tree crops or fodder. Another
activity which will be carefully monitored is the potential rapid increase in livestock numbers
following improved pasture availability. This issue would be addressed through continuous
monitoring and by assisting the farmers in formulating pasture management plans on which
to base their decisions.
*   Component 5: Improvement of basic rural infrastructure. Infrastructure development
would be subject to a technical and EA evaluation before work can start, during which
alternatives and/or mitigating factors would be developed if the potential for a negative
impact is identified. Road construction will be limited and located in areas that are not
susceptible to erosion, subject to flooding, or having any ecological or cultural importance.
With regards to small-scale irrigation, the criteria "presence of adequate water for
development activities" will be monitored to reduce the incidence of over-exploitation of
water resources. On potable water, the project would improve the sanitary conditions during
the rehabilitation/construction to minimize contamination of the water sources by ensuring
that there would adequate drainage of excess water and sufficient separation between human
and animal drinking water. There will be no hill dam construction in the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The E-A report (see annex 13 for the executive summary and a brief description of the process) presents
examples of potential mitigation measures and monitoring and evaluation indicators. It is not possible
to include all mitigation measures as activities are ultimately to be selected depending on the demand of
the local communities. A model TOR for the preparation of specific activity EAs was prepared and it is
an annex in the EA. The TOR are detailed and include a description of the type of information that
would be required. In addition, the EA also provides for a rapid EA screening/appraisal in the event a
full fledged EA is not required, and a template,fiche, is presented. Furthermore, the EA report describes
the legislative, policy and institutional requirements for EAs in Tunisia. The EA prepared conforms with
both the Bank's operational Directive, 4.01 and with Tunisia's regulation on EA, the National Action Plan
for the Environrent, National Agenda 21. The key features of the EA are as follows:
*   The need for the project to support training and capacity building of the implementing
agency personnel, partners and beneficiaries, is emphasized. A local environmental training
- 31 -



agency would be contracted to carry out these activities;
*   The importance of "moving down" the EA process from the central managing unit to the
beneficiary level by including the process as part of the CDP preparation, which implies
increased awareness and participation of the beneficiaries and the various stakeholders;
*   It is proposed that mitigation measures and M&E indicators developed are included in
bidding documents and in the contracts to ensure that they are taken into consideration
during implementation and M&E of the specified activity; and
*   Consideration of design and/or localization alternatives when potential negative impacts are
identified is emphasized.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February, 2002
The initial draft was received in January and the final draft was received at the end of February, 2002.
The EA has been disclosed and is available in the InfoShop and at ODESYPANO following the
Government letter of April 24, 2002.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA was prepared in parallel with the social assessments and as such includes the participation of a
representative sample of farmers and local authorities. Consultations were carried out with the
Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Examples of indicators to be used in the project are presented in the EA report and they build upon those
established during the implementation of NWDP. In addition, during the EA preparation of specific
activities, indicators will be prepared and included in the CDP and CP for monitoring and evaluation.
6. Social:
6.1 Sunmmarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The primary social objective in this project are to contribute to poverty reduction through improved
management of the natural resources, improved access to social infrastructure, and facilitating the
process of community organization so that the communities can eventually take charge of their own
development priorities. The main social development outcome is empowerment of the local rural
communities in the selected project areas to operate as effective development actors and to have the
capacity to negotiate with extemal institutional partners effectively.
To attain a positive social development outcome, the project will monitor social issues specifically to
ensure: (i) effective and equitable participation of all key stakeholders in the establishment of local
development committees, in the implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of activities; (ii) active
and effective participation of women, the young and the landless in the formulation of CDP; (iii) that
access to forest products and their management is collaborative and strategies are jointly formulated by
the beneficiaries and the forestry unit (arrondissementsforestiers) in each CRDA, in keeping with legal
- 32 -



provisions of the Forest Code; and (iv) that land consolidation and titling activities take place only in
locations where there is unanimous approval of the beneficiaries, as currently planned in the
implementation program.
Given the significant experience with the participatory approach accumulated during the implementation
of the NWDP, the time is now opportune to move the participation of the local communities from a
passive role to a more dynamic role including the management of resources. The proposed training
program of beneficiaries and staff will take into account the long-term evolution of these now informal
structures in order to make them closer partners with the Conseil Regional, and the Conseil Local de
Developpement. The development of other mechanisms for the formation of socio-professional
organizations are also envisaged to promote community auto-development.
The project has built on the experience of past projects and developed an effective and innovative
integrated participatory approach (API). At this time, the successful creation of the Development
Commnittees (CDs) at the Douar level whose social cohesion is built on kinship ties, has proven a good
vehicle for community participation in development activities. The execution of the Community
Development Plans (CDP) has also been successful, but the level of participation could be improved.
The current project aims to adapt and refine the participatory approach to improve social outcomes and
popular participation of all groups of a community (particularly women, youth, and landless). To achieve
this, the project will finance training programs for project implementation staff to increase their
understanding of the dynamics and measures of desired community capacity for auto-development,
including aspects of community organizations, technical capacity building, management of community
organizations and planning of participatory development plans, as well as train beneficiaries in financial
asset management. A key activity will be to train conmmunity members in the analysis of social and
technical issues during the preparation of development plans. The definition, creation of proposals, and
implementation of small projects will be key aspects to training and capacity building to ensure positive
social outcomes.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders. The beneficiaries in the project include the communities in the selected project areas
and micro-zones (terroirs). They have been and will continue to be key active participants in project
planning and implementation. Since the communities in the different zones of intervention have different
organizational and capacity levels, training and other related activities will be planned to reflect these
differences. In addition, the project will foster the creation of viable partnerships with socio-professional
groups, as well as government and non-govermuent agencies involved in technical and capacity building
training for the communities. Key stakeholders are likely to be with: (i) DGF (Arrondissement Forestier
in each CRDA). ODESYPANO will, for the first time, be actively involved in supporting populations
living in and around forest areas to participate in the implementation of forest management plans, as well
as identify viable and sustainable altemative livelihoods; (ii) CRDAs. Several would participate in the
implementation of agreed activities; and (iii) NGOs capable of working at the community level would be
invited to participate in project implementation. The key stakeholders have been consulted and have
participated during project preparation, and should remain involved in project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation.
Preparation. A social assessment focusing on the impact of the recently closed NWDP project on the
socio-economic conditions of beneficiaries was carried out and used to improve the design of the present
project. The social assessment also identified target groups, zones of extension and potential activities.
In addition, the assessment identified the main social and related needs of the communities and their
potential for participation. The assessment was comprehensive and its recommendations have been
discussed with ODESYPANO and planned measures to make participation more effective have been
- 33 -



elaborated. These are presented in Annex 11 of this docurnent. Key stakeholders, NGOs, CRDAs, DGF
and other potential partners were consulted on specific design features and "menu" of possible project
activities during preparation. A workshop presenting the results of the FAO/CP Project Preparation work
was held on February 11-12, 2002 with the representation of all the key stakeholders. On the basis of this
work, the pre-appraisal mission finalized project design and proposed changes on the methodologies for
the constitution of Development Committees (CD) and preparation of CDP.
The stakeholder and needs assessments have been closely linked to the institutional analyses undertaken
during preparation. They have addressed the following issues: the existing institutions at the local level,
formal and informal, and in particular the level of trust people have in these institutions; where people go
to resolve their day to day problems in various areas; coping mechanisms of households and inter
household collaboration; gender distribution of household and economic tasks and gender issues in
decision making at the local level; groups at risk of exclusion in the existing formal and informal set up:
youth, landless, elderly; vertical and horizontal linkages of the community and household with formal
institutions working and the perception of the community members of different organizations involved in
local development.
Implementation and monitoring. All project components will involve local community participation.
ODESYPANO has developed an integrated participatory approach that has been increasingly refined in
its targeting mechanisms to ensure that all deserving beneficiaries receive benefits. In addition, during
implementation, the training and capacity-building efforts will be highly concentrated to improve
community-based decision-making. Communities will be further encouraged to participate actively in the
project's implementation, including the bidding process for activities they have satisfactorily been
involved in during implementation of earlier projects. An example, is the soil and water conservation
activities which they very satisfactorily implemented in the NWDP through small private enterprises,
tacherons, many of which were made up mainly of members of local communities. The basic modalities
for the implementation of the capacity building programs have been elaborated during project
preparation.
Gender. The project preparation and pre-appraisal teams assessed the activities carried out under the
NWDP and the reasons for the limited range and effectiveness of activities that would have benefited
women. The analysis showed that to improve the efficiency of women's participation in the project,
special emphasis must be put on targeting and training, which the project will aim to do. In addition, to
identifying and implementing some activities that specifically target women, the project will also
emphasize the integration of women in project activities to increase their benefits. As women in the
northwest already participate in a large number of these activities, careful targeting and increased
awareness should increase their participation in the project. To gauge adequately the needs of women,
the project will stress the use of consultations with women during CDP preparation, and women
development community workers, animatrices, would be an integral part of the preparation teams.
Furthermore, training which will include gender sensitivity for the administration personnel and the
participating agencies will be funded.
The project will pay special attention to women and other marginal groups, particularly on issues
concerning financing and marketing. Furthermore, the improved API will focus on integrating women
more closely into the setting up of CDs and in the formnulation of CDP so that their voices are heard
effectively and benefits accrue to them in the context of their daily lives and production systems.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation, a survey to identify NGOs and other small enterprises that could participate
- 34 -



in project implementation was carried out. The survey assessed the agencies' capacity and their needs for
training to ensure their effective participation in community organization. The identified NGOs were also
invited to participate in the presentation of preparation results and they will be approached again by
ODESYPANO to participate in project implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Several arrangements will be made:
*   Based on the results of the stakeholder and needs assessment, the project would refine the
integrated participatory approach to ensure maximum participation of all key stakeholders;
*   Ensure adequate capacity building, to increase local community participation in the decision
making process on issues that impact their development;
*   Assist ODESYPANO to make operational the strategy on the integration of women, and to
develop an action plan that would include the young and the landless;
*   With regards to the participation of forest populations in the harvesting, use and management
of forest products, the project would emphasize participatory implementation of management
plans between local representatives of the DGF (arrondissements forestiers) and local
populations which will include the harvesting of forest products. Whereas previously the
bidding lot size used during the adjudication process for forest products was too large,
essentially eliminating local community participation, this has now been reduced to
encourage local community participation.
*   Regarding the land consolidation and titling issue, the project will give priority to areas with
high voluntary demand, and will continue to monitor experiences to ensure sustainable
results. This activity was popular in the NWDP, and it is expected that the demonstration
effects of past land consolidation will facilitate further land consolidation efforts.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Preliminary indicators are presented in Annex 1 of this document. Specific indicators to measure the
maturity and capacity of the CDs and the effectiveness of CDP will be elaborated during the preparation
of these documents.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes () No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (9 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   ()Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 U9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             U9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (U Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 35 -



A comprehensive EA has been prepared and will be used as a guiding document for the preparation of
specific EA during the project's implementation. Mitigation measures recommended would be included
in the bidding documents and contracts to ensure that they are taken into account.
The project has focused all its activities on private lands, and there have been no special measures
required for the construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure. During the proposed project, and in the
context of carrying out the forestry pilot operations, joint management participatory mechanisms will be
developed to improve the use of forest areas and products. Because the project will actually improve
access to forests, no issues of safeguard policies (OP 4.12 or OP 4.36) should arise. However, the pilot
operations will be carefully monitored and supervised during implementation. Similarly, the land
consolidation pilot operations will include only private property where the owners demand consolidation,
eliminating potential for reduction of land assets. The proposed restructuring of ODESYPANO's
organizational structure envisages a reduction of personnel which will be executed in accordance with
Tunisian regulations, which require that the personnel are provided alternative employment and/or fair
severance measures. The Bank will not finance the compensation, but it will monitor the process with
the Borrower to ensure that there are no loss of livelihoods.
Criteria for selecting project activities and compliance with safeguard issues. Implementation of
works will be subject to an environmental assessment for activities that are large scale and pose potential
environmental risks, such as roads construction and rehabilitation, while environmental screening will be
required for activities such as the rehabilitation and or construction of small infrastructure, such as wells.
The procedures for carrying out these assessments is detailed in the EA prepared for the project and also
in the project Operational Manual. As part of the EA, a confirmation will be sought that there would be
no resettlement issues. In addition, the project will not finance activities that results in the physical or
economic displacement of people.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will contribute to sustainability of project investments through the following actions:
*   emphasizing local community involvement to increase the relevance/suitability of the
investments and the communities' ownership. Moreover, by using the integrated participatory
approach, the project would increase the communities' capacity to participate in rural
development activities and increase their sense of ownership which should translate into
improved operation and maintenance of the investments and hence more sustainability;
*   facilitating access of local communities to sources of financing to enhance both on and off-farm
activities in order to increase household revenues. Special efforts will be made to integrate
women, the young and the landless to participate in project activities. Women's participation is
particularly important given their status as a reliable workforce, in a region where the males often
migrate (even if only on a temporary basis) to urban areas or abroad in search of employment
opportunities;
*   facilitating the dissemination and adoption of improved agricultural technical solutions that are
compatible with environmental and natural resources management, and result in higher revenues;
and
*   supporting the disengagement of ODESYPANO, through its use of a phased community
development approach that allows for capacity building of the beneficiaries and partner agencies
to take over development activities. Through its participation with agencies that have a
- 36 -



permanent presence in the region, the project would contribute to ensuring stable support
services in the long-term, adequate capacity building and the development of participating local
communities. It is expected that these partnerships should, in the long run, result in savings of
operation costs for all participating agencies, thereby increasing implementation efficiency while
permitting the allocation of needed resources to maintenance activities.
The maintenance of rural roads in remote areas remains a national issue. The MEHAT is the Ministry
overall responsible for the construction and rehabilitation for roads and housing in Tunisia, with the
exception of remote rural roads which are not included in its classification system. Consequently, the
burden for the maintenance of unclassified roads falls to the agency that has rehabilitated or constructed
them. To increase the potential for sustainability of remote roads that it will finance, ODESYPANO will
work with the Conseils Regionaux to integrate them into the regional maintenance budget. In addition,
the local communities would also be requested to participate, within reason, in maintenance activities.
As a short-term solution, ODESYPANO has prepared a note (note d'orientation) on how it would address
the issue of sustainability of roads it will construct and or rehabilitate during project implementation.
The options are satisfactory and the note has been included in the project files.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to support the       N        In addition to the official/full endorsement of
development of partnerships between                 MOA for such partnerships, a number of
ODESYPANO and other agencies                        workshops (both at the national and
govemorate levels) have taken place and will
continue up until project effectiveness. These
workshops will involve key decision-makers
(including Governors and Secretary-Generals)
and would be aimed at promoting such
partnerships. Furthermore, the inter-ministerial
committee, in charge of overall project
implementation, will ensure that all other
ministries/agencies are fully participating in
line with the PIP approved by Government.
Resistance by partner agencies            M         Consultations continue to be carried out with
all potential partners to discuss partnerships as
well as the respective roles and responsibilities
of each partner. Models of working protocols
have been prepared and approved by the main
partners. However, adequacy of budget and
willingness to operate through partnerships
cannot be satisfactorily inferred before the first
CDP are prepared.
From Components to Outputs
Participation: Reluctance of local         N        The project will capitalize on the positive
communities to participate                          results generated by the preceding projects.
Use of the integrated participatory approach
- 37 -



will be improved and enlarged. The project will
add an enhanced API approach to build
ownership of project activities. Furthermore,
consultations with local communities will
continue throughout project implementation.
Delays in implementation                  M         Assessment of the capacity of the various
partners to implement set activities has been
carried out. Protocol models have been
prepared, but implementation through
partnerships is a new way of doing business for
all involved and delays are likely. To mitigate
for this potential delay, ODESYPANO is
putting together 4 experimental CDP, which
will give useful but it is likely that these should
yield useful lessons before project start.
Inadequate capacity in ODESYPANO to       M         The project provides for strengthening the
adapt to its new role of increased M&E              implementation capability of ODESYPANO,
and reduced implementation role                    including intensive training of its staff, as well
as the provision of equipment/materials and
training for the expected partner agencies and
the development committees.
Inadequate maintenance of rural roads in  M         Recently, it was agreed that the MEHAT would
remote areas                                        take over the maintenance of classified rural
roads based on agreed criteria. In the case of
non-classified roads, it was agreed that the
MAERH will look for long-term solutions in
collaboration with the other relevant ministries
as well as with the local authorities and
communities.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
N
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower would be expected to set up an Steering Committee responsible for the overall
implementation of the project.
- 38 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
ODESYPANO will create UPPAP no later than June 30, 2003.
ODESYPANO will maintain the PCU with adequate resources and with a skills composition under terms
of relerence satisfactory to the Bank, until completion of the project.
ODESYPANO will carry out projects in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, Project
Operations Manual (Manuel de procedures) and the Environmental Assessment.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
[ 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The procurement documents for the first year's activities will be ready before project effectiveness. In
addition to the Project Implementation Plan, an Operation Manual that describes in concise detail how
the project would work has also been prepared.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
I04 aZ. Pswarayi-Ri dihough  .P&    .os Aklilu                     PedroAlba
;nm Leader                ,)  Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Environmentally and socially  Improved economic       Economic and environmental  Government maintains high
sustainable economic       development with reduced   statistics at the national and  priority on economic
development                negative impact on the     regional levels.          development and poverty
environment, in particular                           reduction, while actively
reduced soil degradation                             promoting better natural
resources management
Better managed natural     Environmental statistics and
resources                  sample baseline surveys
Rural poverty alleviation  Improved standard of living  National/regional statistics on
and revenue in rural areas  revenues and expenditures in
rural areas
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve the             Lower unemployment,        Regional statistics on     Adequate budget funds are
socio-economic conditions of improved household incomes  employment, revenues/   allocated by Government to
the rural populations in the  and better access to basic  expenditures and rural  allow an efficient
mountainous and forested  infrastructure in the rural areas infrastructure for the  implementation of all the
areas of the Northwest, while  of the northwest       Northwest                 project activities
also improving the sustainable
management of the natural                             Project M&E
resources
Improved vegetation and    Periodic socio-economic    Target populations are
forestry cover in the northwest surveys on household  responsive to the importance
revenues/expenditures over  of natural resources
the course of the project  management
Periodic monitoring of
vegetation and forestry cover.
Increases in magnitude of the  Agricultural surveys over the
cultivated areas and in crop  course of the project
yields over a five- year
average period
Project M&E
Bank Supervision Reports
Mid-term Review and
Implementation Completion
Report
-40 -



1    Key'Performance        Data Collection'Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         _                            Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. ODESYPANO's intemal     Adjustments to            ODESYPANO's new            Ministerial Order is signed and
organization is improved and  ODESYPANO's organization organigram               circulated
it becomes more efficient at  are carried out as planned
implementing project activities                       CDP prepared              ODESYPANO personnel are
in partnership with other  Number of conventions (by  Project M&E reports       competent and adequately
govemmental and            type) signed between                                 trained
non-govemmental agencies,  ODESYPANO and other        Bank Supervision Reports
and beneficiaries          agencies                                             The partners have fulfilled
M&E reports prepared by the  their roles and have had
Number of CDP prepared    partners and beneficiaries  sufficient access to resources
Number of CP realized and the Mid-term Review
level of intervention of
partners and beneficiaries in
project implementation and
financing
2. Increased capacity in   Number of informal and    Project M&E                Local communities fully
beneficiary communities,  formal organizations which are                        participate in the formulation
grassroots organizations and in functional - by type  Reports prepared by CD and  of CDP and in implementation
govemmental and                                      socio-professional groups  of CP
non-govemmental            Number of CP realized and
organizations involved in  level of contribution of the CD                      Local communities participate
project implementation     or socio-professional groups in                      fully in
the financing                                        preparation/implementation of
CDP
Number of landless, women
and young in CD or                                    Specific strategies and
socio-professional groups                             activities are formulated and
training is given to key groups
of women, young, and
landless.
3. Agricultural production  Percentage increase in crop  Project M&E            Technical packages developed
systems are improved and   yields and agricultural                              respond to the farmers' needs
diversified, and agricultural  incomes, including from  Agricultural statistics and
income has increased       livestock and dairy        project surveys           Additional production can be
production; % increase of crop                        absorbed by the market
and income diversity; diversity
of agricultural crop products
4. Improved natural resources Land area treated for soil and  Project M&E        Adequate maintenance is
management                 water conservation - by    DGF statistics             carried out by the population
treatment type
Livestock herders accept to
Land area under pasture                               participate in the establishment
and/or tree crops                                     and management of pastures
5. Improved rural          Number of km of improved   Project M&E               Investments in rural
infrastructure and an increased rural roads (inter and                           infrastructure are effectively
access to basic services by the intra-douar)          Govemment statistics      planned to benefit maximum
- 41 -



population                                                                      number of beneficiaries
Number/size of wells, cisterns MTR and ICR reports
and small irrigation perimeters                      The infrastructure is
rehabilitated                                        adequately maintained and/or
govemorates, depending on
their nature
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Institutional strengthening  3.4                  Project M&E
for ODESYPANO and
partners
2. Implementation of pilot  3.9
operations
3. Agricultural and livestock  3.7                    Bank Supervision Reports
development
4. Sustainable natural     17.2
resource management
5. Improvement of basic    16.7                       Mid-term Review and
rural infrastructure                                  Implementation Completion
Report
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Introduction
In Tunisia, the majority of the poor live in rural areas, with the majority living in the Northwest region.
It has been estimated that the rural population has doubled in the last 25 years. The Northwest region
alone is home to at least a third of Tunisia's 9 million people. The economy of the region is agricultural
based. However, agricultural productivity, particularly that in marginal areas, is low due mainly to poor
soil quality, high erosion and fragmentation of farm-lands. In addition, financially viable alternatives to
agricultural production are limited, which has increased the dependence on natural resources.
Out-migration to urban areas or abroad was estimated in 1993 to be at least 15-20 percent. To achieve the
government stated goal of sustainable economic development, it is necessary, among other things, to
increase off-farm income generation activities, improve and diversify agricultural systems, develop and
disseminate appropriate technical responses, involve local communities in the management of natural
resources to increase sustainability, and build adequate capacity in agencies involved in the planning and
implementation of development activities.
Technical.  Tunisia has been developing technical solutions to issues of land degradation and
productivity improvement in marginal areas for over 20 years. The Bank has participated in these efforts,
for example, through its support to the Northwest Rural Development Project Ln. 1997-TUN from
1982-1989 and the recently closed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project - NWDP (Ln
3691-TUN). However, extension services in marginal areas have remained relatively weak and the
adoption of technical solutions has also been slow.
Sustainability of investments made. The Tunisian government realizes the importance of local
community participation as a catalyst for sustainability. It is in this regard that the Northwest Forestry
and Pastoral Development Agency (ODESYPANO) developed and tested an integrated participatory
approach to encourage the involvement of local communities. However, it has become apparent that
organizing populations to allow participation is, on its own, insufficient to ensure long-term
sustainability of the investments made. Other factors such as capacity building and empowerment of
groups formed, access to credit and possibilities of income generation through nonfarm activities are also
important. The government recently passed a decree to allow informal groups, (Development
Committees, CDs) to be formalized into Agricultural Development Groups (GDA), which have the
mandate to manage their own finances, as well as allow easier access micro-credit from formal
institutions.
Overview of proposed project zone. The project would be implemented in five Governorates,
Jendouba, Siliana, Bizerte, Beja and Kef. The project area is mainly rural and dependent on rain-fed
agriculture which is prone to climatic changes. The region is highly vulnerable to soil erosion and
degradation of natural resources because of its steep slopes, geomorphology and high winter rainfall. The
Northwest region is also home to watersheds that affect over 80 percent of Tunisia's water resources
which highlights further, the need to protect soil and water resources. The forests, of which the majority
are found in the northwest are also suffering increasing pressure from grazing and deforestation from
populations in and around the forests. Despite the limited feed, livestock numbers have been steadily
increasing and it is estimated that at least 0.7 million ha of forest and scrub-land are grazed. To reduce
the extent of the problem requires that alternative livelihoods are identified and that local communities
understand their role in improved sustainable management.
Land. tenure is largely private, estimated at 90 percent, of which 58 percent is individually owned, 12
percent family owned with some communally held areas, but state-owned in the forested areas.
- 43 -



However, a large part of the land under 10 ha is not registered, over 72 percent versus 50 percent in for
land areas over 100 ha. Land scarcity is a problem in the project zone, and the average cultivable and
pasture land per person is only 2.4 ha (for example, at least 63 percent of the land in Mogods Kroumirie
is under 5 ha). As such, marginal lands on steep slopes are being brought under cultivation, often under
production systems that leave the fragile soils unprotected, easily eroded and contribute to downstream
siltation of dams. This problem is compounded by inheritance practices that result in further
fragmentation of land leaving many farms nonviable for farming under rain-fed conditions, estimated at
28 percent for private land.
Farming systems are predominantly mixed, with over 60 percent of the households raising livestock,
which due to inadequate feed quality and quantity, a frequent lack of water (due mainly to poor capture
of water resources than lack of adequate rainfall) and use of poor local livestock breeds, has a low
production for meat and milk. At least 30 percent of the cultivable area is under cereals, another 30
percent is under fruit trees, 22 percent is left fallow, and the rest is either under forage, pulses, fruits and
vegetables, and industrial crops. Furthermore, unemployment and under-employment is high, and there is
temporary out migration of male heads of household to urban areas and abroad. Illiteracy in the target
population is high, particularly among women.
The Beneficiaries. A description of the beneficiaries can be found in Annex 11.
Project Objectives
The development objective of the project is to improve the socio-economic status of the populations in
the mountainous and forested zones of the Northwest region, while ensuring sustainable management of
the natural resources. More specifically, the project will aim to increase household incomes through the
improvement and diversification of the agricultural/pastoral production systems as well as the promotion
of off-farm income-generating activities. The project would achieve this by supporting: (i) capacity
building for the beneficiary communities; (ii) limited institutional restructuring and capacity building for
the implementing agency, Office de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest (ODESYPANO) and
its development partners to render them more effective at assisting the communities in planning,
implementing and monitoring their own rural development programs/activities; (iii) the identification and
implementation of income-generating activities, on and off-farm to increase revenues; (iv) the protection
and improvement in the management of natural resources; and (v) the improvement of the beneficiaries'
access to basic rural infrastructure.
What is new in the project?
Innovations in the project. Although the project activities will be largely similar to those implemented
in the recently closed Northwest Development Project (NWDP), a number of innovations aimed at
increasing the development impact will be implemented. The project would: (i) finance the development
of formal partnerships between various agencies involved in rural development in the northwest; (ii)
improve/expand the use of the integrated participatory approach introduced during the implementation of
previous projects to increase ownership amiong the beneficiaries and hence the sustainability of the
investments realized. The API approach should result in greater empowerment of the populations so that
they can participate effectively in the planning and implementation of rural development activities, and
constitutes an investment in social capital; (iii) support the application of the decree allowing for the
formation of formal community-based socio-professional organizations, mainly Agricultural
Development Associations (GDA) which have the mandate to manage their own financial resources,
thereby increasing their capacity for self-management; and (iv) improve the approach/methodologies for
the preparation and implementation of the Community Development Plans (CDP) by using two
"generations" of plans, a first that is investment oriented and a second aimed at strengthening the CD and
consolidating the implementation of activities from the first generation plans, leading to the eventual
- 44 -



disengagement of ODESYPANO in favor of the beneficiaries and the CRDA.
The need for partnerships reflects the evolution that has taken place since ODESYPANO was created as
an agency to fight poverty in the Northwest region over 20 years ago. Key changes are the increased
number of agencies now operating in the region and the changes in the priorities of the beneficiaries from
20 years ago. This evolution dictates that ODESYPANO review its operating mandate and adapt its way
of doing business to include only those activities for which it has a higher comparative advantage than
others in the region. In addition, the proliferation of actors, most drawing from the same Government
budget, dictates that partnerships between ODESYPANO and the other development agencies are
developed to contribute to increased public expenditure effectiveness. It has also become necessary for
ODESYPANO to begin to disengage itself from areas where populations have benefited from several
activities to encourage them to become independent planners of their development efforts. However,
these changes will not occur overnight and they must be carefully phased to minimize their impact on the
agency, its activities and on the beneficiaries, hence a majority of the partnership in the outset will be
more of joint planning and sub-contracting by ODESYPANO.
The project components described below were designed to maximize achievement of the development
objective, encourage local community participation as a strategic choice to increasing the potential for
sustainability and increase development effectiveness through fostering partnerships.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.36 million
Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners
The component would support capacity building activities aimed at enhancing efficient and cost-effective
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the project, with particular emphasis on
activities that support the decentralized implementation structure of ODESYPANO. In addition, the
component would support specific short-term well defined activities targeted to increase the capacity of
ODESYPANO's partners, including the beneficiary populations to effectively participate in the planning,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The component would have four
sub-components, described below. Overall implementation of this component would be the responsibility
of ODESYPANO.
Sub-component 1.1: Adjustment/strengthening of ODESYPANO's organizational structure (Total
cost $2.29 million). The sub-component would support ODESYPANO to adapt to its changing role
through provision of funding for: (i) short-term technical assistance for the redefinition of roles and
responsibilities of ODESYPANO staff; (ii) purchase of equipment and replacement vehicles and some
building rehabilitation, (iii) provision of national technical assistance for updating operations/procedures
manuals and helping with the formulation of Community Development Plans (CDP) in the first two years
of project implementation;
Sub-component 1.2: Improvement of information systems (Total cost $0.42 million). To support the
decentralized implementation of the project, as well as support ODESYPANO's increasing M&E role,
the sub-component would finance the: (i) rationalization and upgrade of existing information systems,
including the strengthening of the Geographic Information System (GIS); (ii) setting up of an M&E
system consistent with ODESYPANO's revised role, including the definition of progress and impact
indicators, financing of the baseline survey and subsequent surveys to measure project progress; (iii)
purchase of equipment and materials to support the improved information systems and the migration of
the existing information/data to the new systems;
-45 -



Sub-component 1.3: Training program (Total cost $0.24 million ). The sub-component would support
capacity building of ODESYPANO personnel to adapt to its changing role to render them more effective.
Training topics would include: (i) use of the integrated participatory approach, including techniques such
as Rapid Rural Assessment; and (iii) use of information systems to plan and execute development
activities effectively and efficiently. Training for the animateurs/trices and subject matter specialists
will emphasize, among other topics, non-technical training on the use of the integrated participatory
approach, use of the information systems, socio-economic evaluations, environmental management etc.
Given the decentralized nature of project implementation, focus will also be on increasing regional
capacity. The refinement and adaptation of improved participatory methodologies will be a continual
process to be carried out during project implementation. Partnership. A convention will be signed with
the International Center of Technology and the Environment of Tunis (Centre international de
technologie de l1environnement de Tunis, CITET) and with NGOs for the training environmental
monitoring.
Sub-component 1.4: Capacity building for participating agencies and beneficiary populations
(Total cost $0.41 million)
The sub-component would finance: (i) training activities for the various participating agencies and
beneficiary communities; (ii) workshops for the purposes of planning, information sharing and consensus
building between partners, and (iii) provision of small office equipment/materials. With regards to the
government partners, CRDA in particular, these workshops would also be used to discuss CDP planning,
procurement queries and M&E activities. Partnerships. In addition to the CRDA, CITET would also be
involved in training of natural resources and environmental management.
Project Component 2 - US$3.92 million
Implementation of Pilot Operations
The component would support the implementation of pilot operations aimed at encouraging beneficiary
population participation in forest areas, reducing land fragmentation and increasing on and off-farm
revenues through the implementation of micro-projects. The component would have three key
sub-components:
Sub-component 2.1: Pilot integrated development operations to support forest dwelling
communities (Total cost $2.06 million)
The sub-component would support activities aimed at improving beneficiary participation of forest
dwelling communities in forest management activities, to improve their standards of living and reduce
pressure on the limited forest resources through: (i) preparation of contextually broader CDP to include
forested areas, (ii) provision of forestry extension services and small equipment to increase beneficiary
access to forest management activities on an estimated 15,000 ha; and (iii) training and carrying out of
trials/demonstrations on improved forestry practices. Access to forest management activities would be
through the use of smaller bidding lots that allow beneficiary groups to participate. Partnerships. The
component would be implemented in close collaboration with DGF and the CRDA. Training of
beneficiaries on forest management techniques would be carried out in collaboration with the CFPAR
and NGOs through conventions.
Sub-component 2.2: Pilot land consolidation activities (Total cost $1.15 million)
The sub-component would finance six pilot land consolidation and titling activities on approximately
- 46 -



5,400 ha. Three pilots would be implemented in zones previously covered by the recently closed NWDP
project, and three in the extension zone. Selection of participating Douars would be purely demand
driven and on a voluntary basis. The component would finance: (i) extensive infonnation campaigns for
targeted communities to explain the objectives of the activity, the stages involved, costs to the
beneficiary and the expected benefits; (ii) implementation of land consolidation and titling operations;
(iii) construction of small access tracks to enhance land's productivity. Taking into account previous
lessons leamt, efforts would be made to hand-over consolidated land to concerned farmers in time for the
subsequent rainy season. Partnerships. This component will be implemented in close collaboration with
AFA through signed conventions.
Sub-component 2.3: Promotion of micro-projects and micro-enterprises (Total cost $0.71 million)
The sub-component would support revenue generation through its provision of funding for the
development of micro-projects and micro-enterprises. The sub-component would finance: (i) niche
analyses to identify viable micro-projects/enterprises; (ii) training of selected beneficiaries and
ODESYPANO staff in, amongst other things, project formulation, credit and market analyses; (iii)
assistance to beneficiaries for the preparation of technically and financially sound proposals for
presentation to financing institutions; and (iv) support to marketing (participation in fairs, advice for
processing/packaging, information on quality standards. Where beneficiary populations are interested in
transformation activities, the project may support the purchase of small equipment and provide technical
assistance to the cooperative. A priori, several potential micro-project activities have been identified, the
development of small-scale irrigation to encourage market gardening, organized harvesting of
non-ligneous wood products, honey production, establishment of agro-forestry species, such as capers,
figs, walnuts, hazel-nuts, and the mulberry-trees whose products are in high demand in the country.
The extent and success of this sub-component will depend largely on the availability and degree of access
by the populations to credit facilities. In the previous project, a similar component was cancelled
because it was not possible to create Douar credit Unions (DCUs) to set up and operate village
micro-credit financing. This issue has not been resolved. To decrease the impact of the component's
cancellation, ODESYPANO arranged for the provision of micro-credit by the then newly created bank,
Banque tunisienne de solidarite (BTS). Although the results are positive, the bank experienced serious
constraints in catering for local population needs. As such, the project will, where possible, assist the
local communities in accessing other funds in the region. Partnerships. ODESYPANO would work in
partnership with, CRDA, NGOs, BTS and other agencies able to offer credit.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.69 million
Agricultural and livestock development
This component would strengthen the extension services for better dissemination of improved technical
paclcages in crop production and livestock husbandry, including veterinary services. Technical packages
use(d would be adapted and/or derived from those that were prepared during the recently completed
NWDP. The three sub-components are
The component would have three sub-components:
Sub-component 3.1: Agricultural extension to producers (Total cost $1.05 million)
The sub-component would fund agricultural extension services, including demonstrations of improved
technical packages to increase agricultural production through their adoption. In addition, the
sub- component would fund: (i) the updating and broadening of the technico-economic reference manuals
-47 -



on technologies/practices, (ii) applied (short-duration, rapid impact, demand-driven) research on
production system diversification and improvement; (iii) provision of training and demonstration
equipment/ materials for the extension services; (iv) small-scale investments to solve technical problems
of broad local interest (ex: seed processing/conservation and small machinery); and (v) specialized
extension services for milk production/processing. Techniques adopted would be compatible with
sustainable agricultural productivity and reduced soil erosion and degradation. Partnerships. Research
would be carried out through contractual arrangements with the Institut de la Recherche et de
l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles, IRESA) and the Agricultural Training Agency (Agence de
vulgarisation et de formation agricoles, AVFA). In addition, the project would also explore the
possibility of linking with extension services already in use by the CRDA to improve efficiency and
service a larger number of producers.
Sub-component 3.2: Livestock development activities (Total cost $0.61 million)
The sub-component would support activities to improve the genetic stock of livestock, animal health and
the quality and quantity of livestock feed available. The activities of improved quality and quantity of
livestock feed are designed to complement the objective of the sustainable natural resources management
component to reduce pressure on natural resources through increased pasture and rangelands. Specific
activities to be funded include: (i) provision of training for inseminators, (ii) provision of genitors (bulls,
rams and billy-goats), and (iii) selective investments in animal health and bee-keeping. Partnerships.
The genetic improvement of livestock would be carried out in collaboration with the Office of Livestock
and Pastures (OEP). The CRDA would also participate in the prophylaxis campaign, and private
veterinaries in the prevention and cure of diseases not covered by the CRDA.
Sub-component 3.2: Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes (Total cost $2.03 million)
The sub-component would support the rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes, including
community wells and springs when appropriate. The scale of works supported under the project would
depend on beneficiary demand.
Project Component 4 - US$17.23 million
Sustainable natural resources management
The component would support activities targeted to improving environmental and natural resource
management, concentrating efforts on activities that the local beneficiaries can adapt, manage and
maintain to increase the potential for sustainability. Partnerships. In addition to the socio-professional
groups, CRDA, CITET and NGOs would be involved.        The component would have three
sub-components:
Sub-component 4.1: Soil and water conservation (Total cost $7.49 million).
The sub-component would finance both mechanical and biological soil and water conservation activities
to reduce degradation and improve agricultural production.  Activities would consist of: (i) the
construction of low stone walls and establishment of plantations to control gully erosion; (ii) construction
of small dikes and planting of grass strips on private and state-owned lands to protect against floods.
Techniques used would be those that fit in with specific ecosystems types.
-48-



Sub-component 4.2: Improvement of pasture and rangelands (Total cost $4.22 million).
The sub-component would support the establishment of pastures and rangelands in degraded areas that
would otherwise have been under/non utilized, thereby contributing to reduced land degradation and
erosion. Where appropriate, crop trees would also be used, which should contribute to the combined
objectives of reduced degradation and income generation.
Sub-component 4.3: Agro-forestry development (Total cost $5.51 mitlion).
The sub-component would be targeted to encouraging the establishment of agro-forestry plantations as a
complementary measure for mechanical soil and water conservation activities. Particular emphasis will
be put on matching species with ecosystems to improve the environmental management and commercial
values of the plantations. Agro-forestry species established would include pasture species to satisfy
demand from the livestock intensification activities.
Project Component 5- US$16.65 million
Improvement of basic rural infrastructure
The component would support the rehabilitation and/or construction of basic rural infrastructure in the
project zone to de-isolate remotely located areas and populations and improve their access to markets and
basic social services. The majority of these activities will be in extension zones where access to rural
infrastructure remains an issue. The component would finance two sub-components:
Sub-component 5.1: Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads (Total cost $15.01 million).
The sub-component would mainly support the rehabilitation and limited construction of rural roads. The
allocated quantities of civil works to be implemented are based on estimates of the likely requests from
the targeted communities and on assumptions of cost-sharing with various other implementing agencies
involved. Partnerships. The Regional Directorate of Equipment and Housing (Direction Regionale de
l'Equipement et de l'Habitat - DREHAT) would be the primary partner for road construction and
maintenance. The funding issue for the maintenance of remote roads (known as non-classed roads)
remains an issue and GOT is examining solutions.
Sub-component 5.2: Improved access to potable water (Total cost $1.64 million).
The sub-component would finance activities that increase the local beneficiary population's access to
potable water through the construction and/or rehabilitation of wells, water cistems and potable water
connections. These activities are relatively simple, requiring limited investments and minimal
maintenance. It is expected that ODESYPANO would purchase the materials needed while their
installation would be carried out by small private enterprises to increase the participation of small private
companies and local communities.
-49 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Institutional Strengthening                                 2.19          0.82          3.01
Implementation of Pilot Operations                          2.85          0.40          3.25
Agricultural and Livestock Development                      2.67          0.47          3.14
Sustainable Natural Resources Management                    12.61         2.24         14.85
Improved Basic Rural Infrastructure                         11.65         2.14         13.79
Total Baseline Cost                                        31.97          6.07         38.04
Physical Contingencies                                     0.71          0.14          0.85
Price Contingencies                                        5.42          0.55          5.97
Total Project Costs'              38.10          6.76        44.86
Front-end fee                     0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required               38.10          6.76        44.86
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Civil works                                                  32.20           5.48         37.68
Equipment and Vehicules                                       1.98           1.09          3.07
Consultant Services and Training                              3.92           0.19          4.11
0.00
Total Project Costs'     38.10           6.76         44.86
Front-end fee                     0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required      38.10           6.76         44.86
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 44.86 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75.79%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 50 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                    Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
Analysis                             Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits:          US$73.4 million
Costs:             US$65.2 million                                            US$3.43
million
Net Benefits:       US$8.3 million                                            US$3.43
imillion
IRR:                        16.6%
Note: The fiscal impact reflects reccurent costs.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The analysis is based on models of production for specific crops. The models are differentiated according
to the three agro-ecological zones in the project area (Mogods-Kroumirie, semi-humid and semi-arid).
The products are olives, durum wheat, barley, faba beans, horse beans, chickpeas, lentils, potatoes, oats,
other forage products including pastures, wood and crop by-products, mainly straw. Indirectly, the
benefits from increased soil fertility induced by project interventions are quantified in the expected
increased yields. Increases in livestock production, mainly meat and dairy products, are assumed to be
reflected in the increased forage production.
Hence, quantifiable benefits under the project are derived mainly from additional crop and livestock
production. In addition, a substantial part of the project benefits will be in the form of improvements in
the management of natural resources and rural infrastructure as well as institutional strengthening (both
at the governmental and local levels). This second category of benefits are not quantified in economic
terms but will be evaluated in physical and qualitative terms.
A single project level FRR is not presented as the financial impact of the project is at the farm level.
Benefits from research findings are essentially in the form of diffusion of improved technologies which
entail increased operating costs but do not necessarily require farm-level investments. Hence, financial
analysis focuses upon the profitability of crops supported by the project. Increases in net revenues before
and after the project were calculated for all crops and FRR were calculated for those crops requiring
investments; namely, olive trees and pastoral interventions.
This crop-based approach, rather than one based on farm models such as those used appropriately in
irrigation investments, was adopted for two reasons. First, in a demand driven participatory approach, a
farm model type approach would have been counterintuitive. Second, experience has shown that the
- 51 -



focus on the farm model type impacts have led field staff to focus on target farms at the expense of
promoting diffusion effects, so as to establish that M&E criteria are achieved. Hence, it is proposed in
the present project that M&E will focus on the larger diffusion effect as well as the impact on targeted
farms. In this M&E context, specific representative farm models will be developed to assess differential
impacts on farm households, particularly on household incomes.
Although there are no reliable data on household income levels for the northwest in general, the total
annual expenditures per household are estimated to be around TD 500 on average, with the poorest
segment of the populations at about 60 percent of the average or TD 300. The average increase in net
revenues per ha, with the project, would vary between a minimum of TD 13 for wheat in the
Mogods-Kroumirie region and a maximum of TD 683 for fodder crops also in the Mogods-Kroumirie
region. Recent site-specific socio-economic surveys suggest that agricultural production generates a
substantial part of the household incomes; from 40 percent in the Kroumirie to 80 percent in Southern
Beja. Remittances from emigrants are also an important source of family income. Moreover, livestock
production often constitutes more than 40 percent of the agricultural incomes, even more than 80 percent
in Sejanane where pastures prevail. For illustrative purposes, when taking into account the differen( farm
sizes by region - from 1.6 ha of agricultural land per household in Sejenane to 15 ha in Southern Beja -
additional agricultural production with the project could more than double the household incomes (using
the expenditures as proxy), albeit starting from a low level without the project. Not included in these
calculations are the potential incomes from off-farm activities as promoted under the project, particularly
in marginal areas where agricultural productivity will always be low mainly because of the poor soils. It
is expected that off-farm incomes, mainly in some areas not too far from urban centers, could be as
important as those from agriculture.
The driving elements of the economic benefits under the project are the investments in olive trees and the
pastoral interventions. The former has an impact with a gestation period, whereas the latter quickly
produces an economic impact. Overall, these pastoral interventions have a positive environmental effect
in stabilizing soils and degradable sloped lands in the mountainous areas. In addition, by providing
fodder for livestock, they reduce the pressure on vulnerable marginal areas. The experience with these
interventions has been very positive.
If one takes these positive environmental effects into consideration, the economic value of the forage
products from these areas (expressed as Forage Units, UF, equivalent to the value of 1 kg of barley)
could be higher. For example, if the effects of pastoral interventions on soil conservation and reduced
siltation of reservoirs could be quantified, they would provide an estimate of the economic value of UF.
The following table presents the potential impact of an increase in the economic value of UF on the NPV
and IRR, as an indicative measure of the environmental externalities embodied in this activity.
Economic Price of UF       NPV          ERR      Economic value of UF
(TD/MT)           (US$ million)                (US$ million)
1.738 (1)             8.3        16.60%
2.000               10.4        17.72%            2.1
3.000               18.5       21.88%             10.2
4.000               26.5        25.85%            18.2
(1) Used in economic evaluation.
On other agricultural products, current and expected yields are based on expert estimates differentiated
by agro-ecological region and economic yield potential. These yields represent weighted averages based
on the frequency of good, average and bad years, related mainly to rainfall patterns. Furthermore, the
yield increases targeted by the project pertain only to a part of the project zones, indicated in detail in
- 52 -



project preparation documents. An adoption pattern of 10, 10, 10, 30 and 40 percent in subsequent years
of the project is assumed. In addition to the monitoring of targeted areas, average yields in the project
area will also be monitored.
Based on these criteria and the assumptions indicated below, the project demonstrates an economic rate
of return of 16.6 percent. On financial returns based on individual crops, increases in net revenues ranged
from :5 percent for durum wheat in Mogods-Kroumirie to 2800 percent for irrigated bersim in the
sub-humid zone. For olives, the FRR ranged from 20 to 42 percent. For pastoral interventions, the FRR
and increases in net revenues were quite high. The FRR ranged from 25 to 147 percent, whereas
increases in net revenues ranged from 120 to 1970 percent.
Regions  Sub-humid  Sub-humid    Semi arid   Semi arid    Mogods-Kroumirie  Mogods-Kroumirie
FRR (%)    NR (%) (1)   FRR (%)     NR (%) (1)      FRR (%)           NR (%) (I)
Products
Tree crops (old olive trees)  5         73         21           28              12                133
Tree crops (young olive trees)  5       73          2           160              1                133
Durum wheat                             38                      44                                 5
Barley                                 34                       24                                68
Pulses (horse-beans)                   29                       110                               280
Pulses(chickpeas, lentils)             92                       21                         _
Forage (oats)           ______=_X_      30                      60 
Forage (sulla)                         190                                                        370
Cash crops (irrigated potatoes) _       20                      43                                31
Forage (irrigated bersim)              204                     2800                               232
Sylvo-pastoral areas       32          700         25          1970             45               1708
Permanent prairies         147         939         35           482             130               809
Improved parcours (closure)  68        836         45           131             67                187
Improved parcours (seeding)  121       434         83          120             115               770
(1) Represents increases in net revenues with the project.
Recurrent costs after the project period are estimated to be around US$ 504 thousand per year in constant
2001 prices. These recurrent costs cover US$ 122 thousand for the equipment support for ODESYPANO
(vehicles and computers) and US$ 267 thousand for the O&M of rural infrastructure (roads and potable
water). The O&M costs are assumed to be shared by the partners involved (DREH, beneficiaries, etc.).
Fiscal revenues have not been calculated as agricultural products are not subject to taxation.
Main Assumptions:
1.      Revenue generating activities are based on crop-specific models, based on field observations, and
differentiated according to the three agro-ecological regions, with weighted average yields
reflecting regional and seasonal agro-climatic variability:
(i)     Actual yields are based on a weighted average of yields, based on the frequency of good,
bad and average years and the associated yields, as provided by the regional offices in the project
zone.
(ii)    Projected yields are based on the estimates of technical staff in ODESYPANO and the
regional offices in the project zone, reflect an economic potential (rather than the biological
potential) and take onto consideration the risks of climatic variability.
2.      Adoption of improved technologies aims at parts of the project zone which will be targeted by
ODESYPANO for different crops (which is less            than the total area for each crop and varies by
crop), and is based on an exponential path with 100 percent adoption in the targeted areas by the
fifth year of the project, with annual adoption rates of 10, 1, 10, 30 and 40 percent.
3.      Financial prices are based on observed farm-gate prices.
- 53 -



4.     Economic prices are used for:
(i)    Cereals, based on CIF prices adjusted to farm-gate prices.
(ii)   Agricultural chemicals based on CIF prices adjusted to farm-gate prices.
(iii)  Agricultural labor which is subject to a high level of unemployment, estimated to be
around 20-25 percent in the project zone, and significant underemployment during the year, is
valued at 8050 percent of financial wages, based on a market wage rate of 5 TD/day (minimum
agricultural wages are at 6.059 TD/day).
(iv)   The economic price of water is assumed to be 50 percent over its financial value due to
its scarcity.
(v)   The economic value of forage units (UF) produced through pastoral interventions is based
on the equivalency with the barley economic price and excludes any consideration of the positive
environmental effects of the pastoral interventions.
5.     On costs
(i)    Domestic and international inflation rates are assumed to be at 4 percent and 2.2 percent
respectively.
(ii)   The exchange rate is assumed to be at TD 1.40 = US$ 1.00
(iii)  The discount rate is assumed to be 12 percent.
6.     For the economic analysis, all costs are included in rate of return calculation except for the
following: (i) agro-forestry and pasture improvement investments as they are included in the crop
models; and (ii) only 80 percent of ODESYPANO capacity development costs are included as not all the
benefits of this activity are captured in the calculations.
Financial and Economic Prices
Products        Units  Financial Prices Economic Prices
Olives                TD/MT          320.000        320.000
Durum wheat           TD/MT          300.000        235.580
Barley                 TD/MT         200.000        173.800
Faba beans             TD/MT         750.000        750.000
Horse beans            TD/MT         400.00         400.000
Chick peas             TD/MT         750.00C        750.000
Lentils                TD/MT         1000.00C      1000.000
Irrigated bersim       TD/MT        1800.00        1800.000
Irrigated potatoes     TD/MT         280.000        280.000
Oats                   TD/MT         420.000        420.000
Green forage          TD/MT          140.000        140.000
Pastoral UF (forage units) TD/MT       2.000          1.738
Wood                  TD/MT           80.00          80.000
Straw                 TD/MT           50.000         50.000
Inputs             Units       Financial Prices Economic Prices
Seeds and plants
Local varieties            TD/TM             400.000        400.000
Improved varieties         TD/TM              750.000       750.000
Fertilizers
Ammonium nitrate 33.5%     TD/TM              220.000        180.000
Potassium sulphate         TD/TM              500.000       410.000
TSP 45                     TD/TM              220.000        180.000
DAP                        TD/TM              366.000       300.000
-54-



Manure                        TD/TM                  1 0.00C          8.000
Irrigation
Water                         TD/m3                  0.120            0.180
Phytosanitary treatments                   .
Treatment                   TD/treatment              1.00C           1.000
Machinery services
Ploughing                 TD/machine hours           12.00(          10.800
Cultivation               TD/machine hours           10.00C           9.000
Seeding with drill       TD/machine hours            10.00C           9.000
Planting                  TD/machine hours           10.00C           9.000
Phytosanitary treatmnent  TD/machine hours           10.00C           9.000
Fertilizers               TD/machine hours           10.00C           9.000
Combine harvesting        TD/machine hours          40.00C           36.000
Seasonal labor             TD/person day             5.000            2.500
Products and inputs           Units    Financial Prices (TD) Economic Prices (TD)
Products
Olives                       TD/MT                     32(                 32
Durum wheat                  TD/MT                     30                  24
Barley                       TD/MT                     20(                  17
Faba beans                   TD/MT                     75(                 75
Horse beans                  TD/MT                     40                  40
Chickpeas                    TD/MT                     75(                 75
Lentils                       TD/MT                   100                 100
Berseem irrigated (seed)     TD/MT                    180                  180
Potatoes, irrigated          TD/MT                     28(                 28
Oats                          TD/MT                    12                  12
Forage                       TD/MT                     14(                 14
Pastures                   Forage Units                                      0
Wood                         TD/MT                      8(                  8
Straw                        TD/MT                      5                   5
Fertilizers
Amrnonium nitrate 33.5%     TD/MT                    22(                 180
Potassium sulphate          TD/MT                    50                  410
TSP 45                      TD/MT                     22(                 180
DAY                         TD/MT                     37                 360
Urea                        TD/MT                    30                  270
MOP                         TD/MT                     26                 240
Manure                      TD/MT                      1(                  10
Irrigation                                     .
Water                         M3                     0.12                0.12
Phytosanitary materials
Treatment                    Unit                    1.0                 1.00
Mechanisation
Tillage                  machine hours              12.00               10.80
Cultivation              machine hours              10.0(                9.00
.Seeding with drill      machine hours               10.0                9.00
Planting                 machine hours              10.0(                9.00
Phytosanitary treatrnent  machine hours             10.0(                9.00
Fertilizing              machine hours              10.0                 9.00
Combine harvesters       machine hours              40.0(               36.00
Labor                      Person-days                5.00                4.00
- 55 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The ERR of 16.6 remains relatively robust in the face of changes in cost and benefit parameters. Total
cost and benefits and critical cost and benefit elements were varied by plus and minus 20 percent. The
results indicate that the ERR is more sensitive to decreases in total benefits and total costs. The ERR
drops to 8.1 percent in the worst case of a 20 percent drop in total benefits and in the best case increases
to 26.1percent in the case of a 20 percent drop in total costs. Changes in costs and prices of individual
inputs or products produce small impacts on the ERR.
Parameter              ERR (%) sensitivity           to variation of
-20%                        +20%
Total Costs                        26.1 %                       9.6 %
Labor Costs                        17.2 %                       16.0 %
Fertilizer Costs                   17.2 %                       16.0 %
Total Benefits                     8.1 %                       24.3 %
Wheat Price                        15.9 %                       17.3 %
Barley Price                       16.4 %                      16.8 %
Price of forage (UF) from          15.1 %                       18.1 %
.astoral interventions
Olive Price                       15.3 %                       17.8 %
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Years Ending
December 2007
|>,,ff,>T<"gsTS;45F. nvM,LlO,- .-.RI *P
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3   | Year 4     Year5 5   Year6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.2        6.9      10.6       11.7      10.8       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.2        0.3       0.4       0.6                  0.0
Total Project Costs          3.4        7.1      10.9       12.1      11.4       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.4        7.1      10.9       12.1      11.4       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.5       4.6        6.7       7.3        6.7      0.0        0.0
Government                 0.6       1.6        2.6       2.9        2.9                 0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.3       0.9        1.6        1.9       1.8       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     3.4        7.1      10.9       12.1      11.4       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Procurement
Guidelines
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised in
January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published in January 1997 and as revised September 1997,
January 1999, and May 2002, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out with procedures acceptable to IBRD which allow: (a) an
explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public
bid opening; (c) sufficient time for bidders to submit bids (a minimum of four weeks); (d) no preference
margin to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (e) foreign bidders to participate in NCB if they so
wish; and (f) contract award to be made to the bidder whose offer is substantially responsive and lowest
evaluated. The methods to be used for the procurement under this project, and the estimated amounts
for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method
are fixed in Table B.
Overall, the Tunisian procurement legislation is in line with the Bank's guidelines and it reflects
adequate capacity of implementing agencies to handle procurement, and adequate control organizations
in the country. Tunisian implementing agencies would apply the Bank's procedures.
NCB Provisions and Conditionalities
Except in the cases provided for below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines and paragraphs below.
Contracts of goods and works procured under the National Competitive Bidding procedure shall comply
with the following:
(i) any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the Guidelines who proposes to provide
goods produced in or services supplied from any such country shall be eligible to bid for such
contracts;
(ii) Tenders will be advertised with no less that thirty (30) days for bid preparation;
(iii) Government-owned enterprises in the Beneficiary's country may participate only if they can
establish that they (i) are legally and financially autonomous, and (ii) operate under commercial
law. No dependent administrative agency of the Beneficiary or sub-Beneficiary shall be
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for the procurement of goods or works under the Project.
(iv) Bidders will be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail.
(v) Bids shall be opened in public; that is, bidders or their representatives shall be allowed to be
present. The time for the bid opening shall be the same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or
promptly thereafter; and shall be announced, together with the place for bid opening, in the
invitation to bid;
(vi) Prospective bidders shall be allowed to submit two envelopes provided the two envelopes
- 58 -



are opened at the same time;
(vii) Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria disclosed in the bid documents
and quantified in monetary terms, and no provision for preferential treatment for national
companies shall be applied, and
(viii) The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the lowest evaluated
responsive bid, and no negotiation shall take place.
No domestic preference shall apply.
These provisions are also specified in schedule I of the Project Agreement.
Project Management
ODESYPANO would be the principal agency responsible for procurement. However, the CRDAs,
DGF and other agencies may through signed conventions be responsible for the procurement of works
and goods covered in the convention. These agencies have experience in implementing Bank-supported
projects and will each be responsible for procuring goods, works, and consultant services in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines, and supervising the related activities. Under this arrangement,
ODESYPANO and the participating agency/ies would agree on the monitoring and evaluation criteria
for the activities in question under the conventions signed. ODESYPANO will release payments for the
contracts based on these agreed criteria. The agencies working with ODESYPANO under the project
are presented under the Institutional and Implementation Arrangements sections and in Annexes 2 and
12.
Procurement activities in ODESYPANO are also supported by the General Directorate for Finance and
Investments and Professional Organizations (DGFIOP) on which it is institutionally dependent, and
which has long experience in dealing with Bank-financed procurement under the previous ASIL (Ln.
3661-TUN), the on-going ASIL 2 (Ln. 4278-TUN), and the Water Sector Investment Loan (Ln.
7025-TUN). The project coordinator sitting in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in Beja will be the
sarne person as that in the recently closed NWDP project. In addition ODESYPANO will have a
financial management/procurement specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist, again both of
whom were involved in the previous Bank-assisted project.
Assessment of ODESYPANO's and CRDA capacity to implement procurement activities
An assessment of the procurement capacity of ODESYPANO and the five participating CRDA's was
carried out during pre-appraisal, and is filed in the project documents. The results of the analysis
retained an overall LOW procurement risk, given the satisfactory performance of the same implementing
agencies under other Bank projects, as well as the acceptability to the Bank of Tunisia's competitive
bidding procedures. The total value of contracts subject to prior review represents approximately 20
percent of the total Loan amount. For the rest of the procurement, the Borrower shall furnish all
information and documentation that the Bank may reasonably request, prior to the submission of the
related withdrawal application.
Civil Works
Civil works to be financed under the project will cover mainly the construction and rehabilitation of
roads, soil and water conservation structures and possibly rehabilitation of clinics and schools if the
demand exists. These works are expected to add up to an aggregate of US$37.7 million equivalent.
- 59 -



Contracts above US$30,000 equivalent will be carried out in accordance with National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures, up to an aggregate of US$14 million equivalent. There are no contracts
estimated to exceed US$2 million equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 may be
awarded on the basis of comparing quotations from at least three contractors. It is not expected that
force account will be used. However, should it need to be applied, it will be very limited and should be
discussed with the Bank prior to implementation.
Goods
The project would finance vehicles, office equipment, computers, miscellaneous equipment for
implementing units and for soil and water conservation activities, basic infrastructure development and
small scale-irrigation. The total value of goods is estimated at US$3.1 million equivalent. To the extent
possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased under the project would be combined
into packages worth at least US$400,000 and will be procured through ICB. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all International Competitive Bidding - ICB - for goods.
NCB may be used for contracts estimated to cost US$30,000 or more, but less than US$400,000, up_to
an aggregate of US$800,000 equivalent. National or International shopping based on price quotations
obtained from a minimum of three suppliers can be used for small quantities of goods, provided that the
value of the goods does not exceed US$30,000 and the aggregate amount does not exceed US$100,000.
Land consolidation, and titling operations will be carried out by force account through the specialized
agency, AFA, as mentioned under section C4 "Institutional and Implementation arrangements".
Services
6.    Services will consist of approximately, US$4.0 million of technical assistance and training. Of
this US$4.0 million, training is estimated at approximately US$1.1 million, and the remaining $2.9
million equivalent consist of national and international consultants. Consultant services with an
estimated contract amount exceeding US$200,000 will be advertised in the United Nations
Development Business and in at least one national paper, seeking expressions of interest. For such
contracts, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used, and the selection of consultants will
be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be
based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). In the case of assignments to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent, the short-list of consultants may comprise entirely national consultants if a
sufficient number of qualified firmns are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms
express interest, they will not be excluded. The selection method of consultants will be based on quality
and cost (QCBS) for all contracts above US$100,000 equivalent for firms. Below these thresholds, and
with the exception of the employment of consultants through single source for reasons critical to the
project, the selection method may be on the basis of Consultants' Qualifications. Contracts below
US$50,000 may be awarded to individuals. Sole source contracts may be awarded if justified and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 of the Guidelines.
National Consultants Shortlists Ceiling. Until further notice the ceiling for National Consultants
Shortlists will remain at USS200,000.
A project Operation Manual has been prepared and it includes procurement and financial procedures, as
well as the procurement plan for the first year's activities agreed at Appraisal.
- 60 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB         Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           14.49        22.53        0.54      37.56
(0.00)         (11.10)      (17.35)      (0.00)    (28.45)
2. Goodis                         1.81           0.44         0.02         0.69       2.96
(1.45)         (0.22)       (0.01)       (0.00)     (1.68)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00         4.00         0.00       4.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (3.53)       (0.00)     (3.53)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00           0.00         0.34         0.00       0.34
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.34)       (0.00)     (0.34)
Total                           1.81          14.93        26.89        1.23       44.86
_ _ _  (1.45)       (11.32)       (21.23)      (0.00)    (34.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                       >=30                    NCB               All contracts above
$500,000
<30                     NS
2. Goods                       >=400                    ICB               All the contracts
>30<400                 NCB                Two first contracts
<30                   IS/NS
3. ServicesFirms               >=100                   QCBS                 All contracts
=<100                    CQ               Two first contracts
Individuals                          Section V of Consultant  Report on comparison of
>=50                 Guidelines            qualifications &
experience, TORS
<50             Section V of Consultant      TORs only
Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$6.8 million (20%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
ODESYPANO would keep copies of all docunentation for procurement carried out by partner agencies
and will make these available to the Bank for the purposes of project supervision and Post Reviews.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Works                                 26.02                        80%
2. Goods                                  1.48          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory), and
80% of local expenditures for other
items
3. Services, training, and workshops      3.44           87% for local consultants, all taxes
included, or 96% for local consultants
excluding all taxes. For international
consultants, 79% including all taxes or
88% excluding all taxes.
4. Unallocated                            2.72
5. Front-end fee                          0.34
Total Project Costs                      34.00
Front-end fee        0.00
Total                                    34.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement Arrangements
Withdrawals from the proceeds of the IBRD loan will be based on the traditional disbursement methods
of the Bank, using direct payments, requests for special commitments and reimbursement applications,
either fully documented or using Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as per applicable procedures. As
projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed four months
after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard Bank documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods, services and training the
Government will open a special account at the Central Bank of Tunisia to cover eligible project
expenditures to be managed and administered by the Central Bank. Authorized allocation of the special
account would be EUR 2,000, 000 covering an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by
the loan. However , the initial authorized allocation of the special account would be limited to EUR
1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan, plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments equal EUR 5,000,000. The Central Bank of Tunisia will be responsible
for submitting, on behalf of ODESYPANO monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and will retain and make the documents available for
review by Bank supervision missions and project auditors. To the extent possible, all eligible project
expenditures should be paid through the special account . Specifically all eligible project expenditures of
less than US$ 50,000 equivalent shall be paid from the SA.
- 63 -



Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs): All applications to withdraw proceeds from the loan will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each
or less for works; (ii) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 400,000 each or less for
goods; (iii) US$ 100,000 or less for consulting firms; and (iv) US$ 50,000 or less for individual
consultants and training , which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and will be available for review when requested by Bank supervision missions and project
auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the loan Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Financial Management
General Framework
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at the ODESYPANO the implementing agency for
the project, is based on the principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
state owned and autonomous companies. The main characteristics of this system are the following:
Accounting system. ODESYPANO is following a dual accounting system. The cash basis for the needed
reporting to the Ministry of Finance and the rules and standards as defined in the accounting law issued
in 1996 in compliance with International Accounting Standards. The accounting system is computerized
and project oriented. An upgrade of the current system has been developed as part of the new integrated
infornation system. An accounting manual was issued in 1999, according to the accounting law
requirements. Previous annual audit reports certified the true and fair view of the annual financial
statement submitted to the board of Directors. In parallel the information system is at a final stage of
testing and implementation. The general architecture is satisfactory and would be expanded to integrate
new applications. Full implementation of the current applications is planned for the end of 2002. Such a
system would allow the generation of reports reflecting the operational activity and uses of funds
managed by ODESYPANO. It should be noted that the management information system could be further
upgraded by including a cost basis accounting module to reach the needed quality of information and an
effective monitoring and evaluation system. A feasibility study for such a system is planned for the first
year of the project.
Budgeting system. As a non earning revenue entity, ODESYPANO is following the rules and procedures
applicable to Governmental institutions. An annual budget is issued to reflect the programs and actions to
be carried out during the fiscal year together with availability of sources of funds from extemal donors as
well as the gap to be financed from the state budget. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the
Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources and Ministry of Finance which has
sufficient control through its specialized units. In terms of sources of funds, the general budget includes
the Government's contribution as well as funds allocated by different internal and external donors for the
implementation of specific projects. The budget execution is also subject to close control by the financial
controller reporting to the MOF. As an autonomous entity ODESYPANO is responsible for payment on a
transaction level using commercial banking accounts. Funds are released on a quarterly basis by MOF.
Controls. As an autonomous entity, ODESYPANO should submit the annual financial statements to an
external auditor appointed for three years according to the provision of the decree 87-529 of 1987. The
auditor should be a member of the Tunisian Institute of CPA and follow the International Standards on
Auditing (ISA). The annual audit report as well as the management letter assessing the internal control
mechanism should be submitted by no later than June 30 to the Board of Directors. In addition to the
external audit, ODESYPANO is subject to fiduciary control to be carried out by the specialized audit
department of MOF, "Contrdle General des Finances" (CGF) and by the Audit Court (Cour des
- 64 -



Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of public finance and the authority to deliver final
approval ("quitus") of the management and accounts of public funds. An internal control department is
also operational and plays an important role of prior and post compliance review.
Project Implementation & Monitoring. The structure responsible for the project implementation,
monitoring and reporting in ODESYPANO is the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). This unit is
responsible for issuing periodic reports combining physical implementation data as well as financial
infomiation related to commitments and disbursements from the loans. The structure consists of a Project
Coordinator who reports directly to ODESYPANO's Director General. ODESYPANO's Departments,
both central and regional, implement the project and provide information on the monitoring and
evaluation, including budgeting, planning, procurement to the PCU, as needed. The four regional
Directorates play an important monitoring and evaluation role. Institutional changes to improve the
present structure were recormnended during project preparation, and they are expected to be carried out
within the first year of the project. During project implementation the Unit for the Promotion of the
Participatory Approach and Partnerships (UPPAP) will also assist the PCU on issues related to the
integrated participatory approach and the partnerships. The rules and procedures for the PCU's operation
will be issued and submitted to the Bank as part of the results of the study on the redefinition of roles and
responsibilities for ODESYPANO to be carried out during the first year of implementation.
Geneiral Assessment
The financial management system in place was reviewed with the objective of determining whether
ODESYPANO has an adequate financial management system in place as required by the Bank under
OP/BP 10.02. The assessment, which included visits to ODESYPANO, was oriented on the accounting
system, internal control mechanisms, planning and budgeting capacity, and financial reporting
capabilities for use during project implementation. In addition, a format and the contents of the project
Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) was discussed with the Borrower and the results were submitted to
the Bank and they are filed with the project documents. The financial management arrangements
suggested for the project satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
computerized accounting system currently in place will be used to generate the agreed FMR. The
migration to the new system, currently being tested will be used once it has been reviewed and assessed
as satisfactory by the legal auditor within the first year of implementation.
Financial Management Arrangements for the Project
Project organization and Internal Control mechanisms.  The system in place used for the project
implementation is as follows:
*   The Director General of ODESYPANO, and the PCU headed by a Project Coordinator with
vast experience in managing Bank-assisted projects, will oversee project implementation.
The light PCU structure is justified by the adequacy of ODESYPANO's financial
management system. The PCU will play the project coordinating role, while the
ODESYPANO structures will implement the project activities as part of their normal work
plan. As such, the project budgeting, planning, procurement, payments, disbursement,
accounting and reporting will be the responsibility of the different departments in
ODESYPANO.
*   UPPAP will be responsible of coordination of the API and partnerships, and it will promote,
oversee the preparation of partnership agreements and it will participate in project
supervision.
- 65 -



*   Regional Directorates are responsible for day-to-day field implementation. They will issue
monthly work programs and report on project implementation on a monthly basis. As the
integrated monitoring and evaluation system is to be made available during project
implementation, simplified tables will be used during the transition period to report on
monthly activities.
* Internal Audit Department (lAD). Based on the agreed design for project implementation,
involving many actors and partners, the LAD will play an important role for prior and post
compliance reviews at the transaction level. LAD will be a permanent reviewer of reports
issued by the regional Directorates and UPPAP.
*   Accounting and Finance Department. Project related transactions will be reflected in the
books of accounts in a manner that facilitates reconciliation of financial flows and the
issuance of FMRs and monitoring and evaluation reports. The adopted accounts chart will be
detailed enough to allow easy issuance of the needed reports. The chart of accounts was
submitted to the Bank and is filed in the project documents.
*   Procurements arrangements have been described above.
Accounting Procedures
These are:
(i) Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project
funds including payments made and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions
(whether involving cash or not) would be taken into accounts in the accounting and reporting
system. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the transaction proceeded through the
Special Account maintained by BCT would also be included in the project accounting system.
Counter part funds will be shown separately.
(ii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This
distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial Balance for the
project capturing all projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the project would
be prepared.
(iii) Regional Directorates would transmit separate progress statements (spread sheets
summarizing transactions committed and /or disbursed) with copy of all supporting documents to
PCU and Financial Department (FD) on a monthly basis. Aggregation of data would be the
responsibility of FD.
(iv) The chart of accounts will be revised to include the project activities as described in the
project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB) and
the budget breakdown. The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be captured in such a manner
as to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii)
expenditure allocation; and (iii) disbursement categories.
(v) Reconciliation.between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the budget
accounts would be done at the level of FD and the Department of Planning and Monitoring and
Evaluation of ODESYPANO and these reports would be reviewed by the Internal Audit
Department.
- 66 -



Flow of funds.
Based on the agreed design and institutional arrangements the funds will be managed exclusively by
ODESYPANO following the current legal framework. Payments through the State budget will be made
through the current banking accounts. Payments through Bank funds will be made by the BCT when the
special account is to be used. Direct payments will be handled directly by ODESYPANO with the Bank.
Transactions will be captured in the books of accounts to allow statements of accounts to be issued for
both Special account and Loan account. Monthly reconciliation of balances will be made by the financial
sub-department.
Special attention will be made for transactions executed by involved partners. The FD will be responsible
for regular and proper disbursements under the loan.
An annual payment plan will be issued by the FD and it would show separately activities implemented by
ODESYPANO and activities to be executed by involved partners.
Financial Management Reports
Financial Monitoring Reports for the project are to be generated from the computerized dual accounting
system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details)
and would be used for the monitoring of the implementation of the project. The FMR includes the
following main tables:
*   Summary of expenditures committed and disbursement by component
*   Summary of expenditures committed and disbursement by category
*   Summary of the procurement process and procedures
*   Summary of sources and uses of funds
*   Reconciliation of SA
*   Reconciliation of Loan Account
Sub tables would be issued as needed.
Projiect Financial Statements to be submitted to the auditor would include (i) a statement of sources and
utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from the Bank, from the state budget and
beneficiaries, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying
project expenditures by components and expenditure categories; .(iii) a Special Account Reconciliation
Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE).
Audit Arrangements
The auditor appointed for the audit of the corporate annual financial statement will carry out the annual
project financial statement. These audit statements will be carried out in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's
Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "FARAH") and specific Terms
of Reference (TOR) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the
annual project financial statements that will be submitted to the Bank in an annual audit report carried
out within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
-67 -



funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing. TOR for this assignment should cover an audit of financial transaction, and an
assessment of the financial management system, including review of internal control mechanisms. All the
involved entities at the central and regional levels would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The
Auditor would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to the management's attention
any issue which needs to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate
early completion of the annual audit.
The auditor will pay special attention to the activities implemented through partnership agreements.
Visits to ODESYPANO's partners have to be planned in order to express an opinion on compliance with
covenants. Disclosure will be made by the auditor on such partnership agreements.
Readiness for Implementation and Risk Mitigation
Based on the arrangements described above, ODESYPANO has in place the minimum requirements to
start implementation. A Memorandum of Understanding will be signed by ODESYPANO and all
involved parties to define accountability, rules and flow of funds.
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                           12
First Bank mission (identification)            04/01/2001                  04/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    04/29/2002                  04/29/2002
Negotiations                                   09/09/2002                  09/09/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  02/01/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture, Enviromnent and Hydraulic Resources and FAO Investment Center through
PHRD financing and World Bank input.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough          Senior Natural Resources Management Specialist, T. Leader, MNSRE
Kutlu Somel                       Senior Economist, MNSRE
Concepcion del Castillo           Senior Social Scientist, MNSRE
Sarnia Msadek                     Senior Financial Management Specialist, NMNSRE
Harry Palmier                    Institutional Development Specialist
Douglas Lister                    Senior Agricultural Economist, MNSRE
Petros Aklilu                     Sector Manager, Rural Development, MNSRE
Nadia Gouhier                     Procurement Analyst, MNSRE
Hovsep Melkonian                  Senior Disbursement Officer, LOAG I
Hassine Hedda                     Disbursement Analyst, LOAG I
Arbi Ben-Achour                   Senior Social Scientist, MNSRE
Alan Rotman                       Senior Environment Specialist, MNSRE
Hocine Chalal                    Environmental Specialist, MNSRE
Dominique Bichara                 Senior Counsel, LEGOP
Maurice Gress                     Principal Procurement Specialist, MNA
Marjory-Anne Bromhead             Sector Manager, ECSSD, Peer Reviewer
Alexandre Marc                    Sector Manager, ECSSD, Peer Reviewer
Christopher Ward                  Lead Operations Officer, MNSRE, Peer Reviewer
Michelle Keane                    Senior Country Officer, MNCO1
Aloysius Ordu                     Regional Quality Advisor, MNACS
Laurent Msellati                  Senior Operations Officer - Procurement Accredited Staff, MNSRE
Rafika Chaouali                   Senior Financial Management Specialist, MNACS
Issam Abousleiman                 Senior Financial Officer, BCFPS
- 69 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Pre-identification Mission: BTO and Aide-memoire dated April, 2001
*   PCD - June 2001
*   Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO and Aide-memoire dated March, 2002
*   Appraisal Mission: BTO and Aide-memoire dated April, 2002
C. Other
*   Etude d'identification et de faisabilite d'un projet de developpement des zones montagneuses et
forestieres dans le nord ouest, AED Consult, 2000
*   Evaluation Environnementale du Projet de Developpement des Zones Montagneuses et Forestieres
Du Nord-ouest (PNO). Rapport Final (Avril 2002)
*   Manuel de procedures du projet, August 2002
*   Evaluation des capacites des agences: Questionnaire (N. Gouhier, February 2002).
*   Evaluation des capacites des agences: Analyse et recommandations (N. Gouhier, February 2002).
*   Etude de redeploiement du personnel ouvrier de l'ODESYPANO et de liquidation transfert du
materiel de chantier
*   Resultats de reflexion et recommandations du Colloque International sue les modeles et les
approches de developpement des zones montagneuses, ODESYPANO, April 2000
*   Identification Report, FAO Investment Center Division, September 2000
*   Preparation Report, Investment Center Division, September 2000
*   Note d'orientation sur la strategie d'intervention en matiere d'entretien des pistes rurales dans le cadre
du PNO
*   Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project, Implementation Completion Report 22390,
December, 2001
*   Second Forestry Implementation Completion Report 22391 -TUN, November 2001
*   Agriculture Sector Investment Loan - ASIL, Implementation Completion Report 22291
*   Natural Resources Management Project, PAD Report 16488
*Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
03-Jart-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USs Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Ong   Frm Rev'd
P055815       2002 TN-ECAL III                                     252.50       0.00                0.00       0.00    117.59       2.59      0.00
PD64082       2001 TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT              37.60      0.00                 0.00       0.00     36.04      4.40       0.00
P005750       2001 TN-AGRIC. SUPPORT SVCS                           21.33       0.00                0.00       0.00     21.21       1.00      0.00
P048825       2001 TN-CULTURAL HERITAGE                             17.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     17,11       0.00      0.00
P035707       2000 TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT              103.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     97.32       4.89      0.00
P050945       2000 TN-Educalion PAQSET I                            99.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     96.64       0.14      0.00
P055814        1999 TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                           35.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     24.44      14.54      0.00
P043700        1999 TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                            50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     17.80      24.28      0.00
P005741       1998 HIGHER EDUC. It                                  80.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     57.70      33.00      0.00
P050418        1998 TN-ASIL 2                                       42.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      5.38      10.12      0.00
P005746        1998 TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                           50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     25.25      26.56      0.00
P005731        1997 TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                       60.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     36.57      20.90      0.00
P005736        1997 NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                            26.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     13.73      14.73      0.00
P046832        1997 MUNICIPAL DEV. II                               80.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      1.59       9.55      0.00
P005745        1996 TN-2ND EMPL. & TRG                              80.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     20.07      22.76      5.16
P040208       1996 TN-INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTION                  38.70      0.00                 0.00      41.46     16.32      27.00      0.00
P005589       1995 SOLAR WATER HEATING                               0.00      0.00                 4.00       0.00      1.27      -1.26      0.00
P005680       1995 TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                     58.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     12.21      12.34      0.00
P005749       1995 RURAL ROADS                                      51.50       0.00                0.00       0.00      1.67       1.38      0.00
Total:     1162.13       0.00              4.00       41.46      619.92    228.94      5.16
- 71 -



TUNISIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998/00             BIAT                           0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00
1995                Maghreb IM Bank                0.00    0.33     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.33     0.00    0.00
1986/92/98          SITEX                          0.00    0.77     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.77     0.00    0.00
1973/75             Sousse-Nord                    0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00
1998                Tuninvest                      0.00    4.59     0.00    0.00     0.00    4.59     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00     6.57     0.00    0.00     0.00    6.57     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conunitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Conmitment:         0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North   middle-
Tunisla    Africa   Income      Development dlamond-
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       9.7       301     2,164                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  2.070     2,000     1.240
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     20.0       601     2.677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (9%)                                       1.3       2.0       1.0      GNI
Labor force (%)                                       2.5       2.9       1.2     Ger                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   8
Urban population (% of total population)               66        58        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               26        43        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              4        15        11          Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   ..        89        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   28        34        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  -119      97       107        -T   unisia
Male                                                123       103       107              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              116        90       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           8.4     13.0       19.5     20.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP               32.3     32.1      27.4      27.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           41.4     40,4      44.0      47.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  23.9     27.1      23.9      23.5
Gross iational savings/GDP                  24.9     27.5      23.5      23.7
Current account balance/GDP                  -7.5    -4.4      -4.2      -4.3      Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        2.6      2.9       2.5       2.3     savings
Total debt/GDP                              42.8     63.4      54.5      52.3     svn
Total debt service/exports                  15.2     23.6      20.0      13.9
Present value of debtUGDP                                      54.1
Present value of debt/exports                                  110.8
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000      2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.4      4.8      4.7       4.9       4.8         -Tunisia
GDP per capita                      0.9      3.2      3.5        3.7      3.6               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6.4      5.7      6.6      14.4       6.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% or 30P)
Agriculture                                 13.7     16.7       12.3     11.6
Industry                                    32.0     29.0      28.8      28.9     io
Manufacturing                              11.9     16.9      18.2      185      5
Services                                    54.3     54.3      58.9      59.5
Private consumption                         61.3     56.3      60.5      60.8            se    97   so    go    00  0x
General governmentconsumption               14.8     16.6       15.7     15.7                    DI      -*-OGDP
Imports of goods and services               49.8     45.3      47.6      51.6
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averege annual growvth)
Agriculture                                  4.0      2.2       -1.0      -2.1    20 
Industry                                     3.2      4.8        5.2      6.0    s5
Manufacturing                               2.5      5.7       6.2       7.0    io                            0
Services                                     3.3      5.5        5.3       6.0     s -   _      _     _     _    _
Private consumption                          2.6      4,5        5.2       5.4     x
General govemment consumption                3.3      4.1        4.7       4.9     s           97    ' 9  99    00    0
Gross domestic investment                    -1.2     4.0        9.1       3.0            -     Exports       Imports
Imports of goods and services                 1.9     4.7        9.6      13.6
Note: 2001 data are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 73 -



Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                      8.2       2.9      1.9
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.4     7.0       2.4      2.8     4
Govemment finance                                                               2
(% of GDP, includes curnent grants)
Current revenue                             29.2    26.4      29.0     29.1            96    97    98    99    oo    o
Current budget balance                       6.9     3.0       4.9      4.5                  GOP deflator   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -1.3     -5.2     -2.9     -2.8
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        2,455   3,710     5,840    6,606     10,00o
Fuel                                     1,308     529       706      610
Agriculture                                 99     563       516      541      7,500
Manufactures                             1,002    2,085     3,958    4,749
Total imports (cif)                        3,779   5,180     8,564    9,521     s,o00
Food                                      428      336       564      654      2,500
Fuel and energy                            747     396       874      888
Capital goods                              960    1,304     2,187    2,240 o
95  99   97   98   99  09   01
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      80       131
Import pnce index (1995=100)                  .,      79        93        .                U Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (I 995=100)                    ..     102       141
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              3,487   5,110     8,606    9,518     o
Imports of goods and services             4,201    5,656     9,311    10,423            I!I111511111
Resource balance                           -714     -545      -705     -905     a1
Net income                                  -302    -595      -941     -941    -2
Net current transfers                       387      563       825      983
Current account balance                    -629     -577      -821     -863
-4
Financing items (net)                       721      475       578     1,123
Changes in net reserves                     -92      103       243     -260      s-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      544      801     1,821     1,999
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             0.5     0.9       1.4       1.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3.607   8,251    10,610    10,447
IBRD                                      320    1,552     1,211     1,297                  G: 682  A 1297
IDA                                        68       58        39       37
e:37
Total debt service                          600    1,364      1,900    1,465
IBRD                                       43      236       229      226
IDA                                         2        2         2        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                 F: 3,638                     D: 2,264
Official grants                            26      100        44
Official creditors                        247      509         0      365
Private creditors                          79     -167       213      229
Foreign direct investment                 293      126       752
Portfolio equity                            0        0         0        0                          E: 2,529
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0      306       202      328      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              71      297       136      293      B - IDA  D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Princpal repayments                        21      127       152      148      C - IMF                   G - Short-tem
Netflows                                   49      171       -17      145
Interest payments                          24      111        80       80
Net transfers                              25       60       -96       65
Development Economics                                                                                            9/17102
- 74 -



Additional Annex 11
Social Dimensions: The Beneficiaries and Participatory Approach
T'UNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Introduction and Background
The determination of the zones of intervention, both those in the zones which have previously
benefited from the recently closed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project (NWDP : Ln
3691-TUN) and those in the extension zones, has taken into account the accomplishments of the
NWDP, studies carried out as part of the evaluation of this project, the feasibility study prior to
discussions between the GOT and the Bank, as well as the preparation study by the FAO/CP. In
addition, an exhaustive social assessment was carried out, focusing on the social and economic
benefits and bottlenecks faced by the NWDP in an effort to define the zones of intervention, major
stalceholders and beneficiary needs, as well as defining methodologies that would result in optimum
project benefits and impacts from project implementation.
The social assessment has made the following points which merit to be highlighted to understand the
approach, which is proposed for this project. First, the context of the Northwest region is one where
poverty and isolation, as well as a deteriorating natural resource base, pose particular problems that
must be addressed. The region, together with parts of Central and Southern Tunisia, remains among
the poorest in the country in spite of three decades of investments and development efforts. The
proportion of people below the poverty line .is higher than in other regions: 10.2 percent compared to
6.7 percent for the national average. Unemployment is high as well: 18.8 percent compared to a
national average of 15.3 percent.
ODESYPANO was created in 1981, primarily to ensure the management of natural resources in two
major watersheds to minimize erosion and silting of dams downstream of the mountain areas where
ODESYPANO initially intervened. This is an area which, in 1981 was still considerably isolated and
poor. Thus, ODESYPANO contributed to the improvement of incomes while ensuring improvements
in the resource management by investing in infrastructure works, mostly roads and anti-erosion
measures. It also contributed considerably to the improvement and intensification of bovine livestock
raising. Thus the first North West Rural Development Project (PDRNO) was both sectoral in focus
as well as territorially selected on the basis of technical criteria for the watershed management rather
than on the basis of sociological and poverty alleviation criteria.
In its second phase, under the NWDP, poverty alleviation began to have a larger focus, together with
the introduction of ani approach that would permit the training of communities to improve the
management of their resources and be more participatory. Nonetheless, the targeting and selection of
the areas of intervention of this project were not substantially changed from the first project. The
selected zones included marginal areas (mountainous zones, and eroded foot hills) in the Govemorats
of Beja, Bizerte, Le Kef and Siliana, and forested areas under heavy human occupation and use in the
Govemorate of Jendouba. The entire population of these technically selected areas constituted the
target group, where any activities regardless of the size of holding or location would benefit from
project interventions. The focal group and beneficiaries, with the community based approach, were
the households of the whole community in each micro-zone (terroirs), and specific activities at the
level of the farm holding constituted the only component with a "social" focus. Because of the
socioeconomic characteristics of the area, the project recognized the need to target special groups
- 75 -



including women, unemployed youth and the landless because of the illiteracy, unemployment and
lack of access to resources represented among these groups. The component that was to benefit these
special groups (income-generating activities), however, was cancelled because the institutional
means to make it work were not in place.
The evaluation results of the NWDP, which closed in mid-2001, suggest that there has been a
significant result in the mobilization of the population, due primarily to the establishment of a sound
approach to participatory development resulting in community organizational activities, as well as a
growing trend of income improvement and more integration of the targeted areas into the mainstream
economy. In part, however, the success has come at a price in terms of long term sustainability. This
is due primarily to the limited financial participation of the beneficiaries in the improvements that
have been made in lands and productivity which have been highly subsidized by ODESYPANO.
Sustainability is an issue, primarily in terms of the transition of the Development Committees (
Comites de Developpement or CDs) into durable institutions, after ODESYPANO ceases to invest in
these communities financially.
It is against this background that the design and focus of the third project must be placed. The past
two Bank-financed projects have shown a gradual change in the projects' design with increasing
focus on poverty reduction, local auto-development, a participatory approach,. and community
organizational activities to ensure sustainability. The currently proposed project squarely focuses on
the outstanding problem groups that must be addressed: women, the unemployed youth, and the
landless, which constitute up to 25 or 30 percent of the households in some of the micro-zones. If
these groups are to be targeted effectively, the project design will require an approach to beneficiary
selection that is both sociologically sound and integrates specific activities to improve the
management of natural resources. One of the questions that remain outstanding then, is how to ensure
a sociologically valid approach to targeting and community organization that will be more likely to
ensure long-term sustainability.
The participatory approach currently used by the ODESYPANO is based on the social cohesion
existing at the level of douars that are linked by kinship ties. These jointly form the CD's at the
base. While individual CDs reflect a certain social cohesion, the different CDs in each zone of
operation (terroirs) are heterogeneous, reflecting the social background of the population in the
overall project area. The population is constituted by diverse segments of tribal populations from the
central and southem parts of Tunisia that have gradually settled in the project area but that have
diverse social backgrounds. In addition, there are settlements of people that have come from the
north where they lost their original lands at the time of the Protectorate. The target group of the
project for these historical reasons are highly heterogeneous with highly dispersed settlements that
reflect portions of old tribes and lineages. This presents special challenges that must be understood in
the creation of the local development committees, their number and distribution. At stake here is the
creation of organizational structures that reflect common interests sufficiently to make them
sustainable and legitimate in order to meet the challenges of true community development, avoid the
capture of benefits by local elites and party affiliates, and at the same time balance the costs of
intervention and training that will be required to meet the project's objectives. In addition, the focus
on true community development will require the formulation of community-developed strategies that
are multi-purpose and sustainable rather than structures and organizations formed for the sole
objective of gaining access to project interventions.
The approach proposed for this project addresses these issues by focusing on different kinds of
immediate interventions in the form of training and further organization in those areas previously
covered by past projects where the "maturity" of the concept of community organization has reached
- 76 -



a higher level than in the areas to be newly incorporated under the project. In addition, the "menu"
of proposed actions reflects a more detailed approach to the needs of each micro-zone rather than a
single generalized approach (one size fits all). This combination of social and technical criteria has
led to the identification of the beneficiary population that is complex and will present organizational
challenges for the implementing institution as well as the technical and social partners. A breakdown
by zone of each of the proposed project areas follows.
Beneficiaries
Altogether the beneficiaries include approximately 190,000 people or 38,000 families covering at
least 345,000 hectares. The old zones have been retained to complete the ongoing work under the
respective Community Development Plans (CDP) ; among other things, consolidate a number of rural
development activities and continue the training and capacity building efforts in the development
committees. The capacity-building measures are particularly important to better ensure that the
investments that have thus far been made, and the community participation that has been elicited,
will continue in a sustainable manner. The continued training will also focus on the linkage of the
CDs with the formal development structures (Conseil Rural, Conseil Local de Developpement and
Conseil Regional) and on the transition of the CDs into other formalized and legally recognized
structures.
In the old zones, most infrastructure needs have been met, and the project will emphasize capacity
building, continued efforts to intensify and diversify agricultural production and other income
generating activities, and continue to encourage the population to participate in the maintenance of
the investments made. This process constitutes in effect a "second generation" phase of community
development efforts whose intended outcome is to strengthen the capacity of the local groups to
better manage and negotiate their own auto-development.
o Type I: Mountainous (39 zones) and Mountainous forests (8 zones) in the rural sectors bordering
the current zones of intervention;
Li Type Il: Forest areas (27 zones) that are already in the ongoing project's areas of intervention
where the population will be trained in community development and organization;
u Type III: Forest areas (25 zones) that are not under any project interventions at this time.
The criteria for expansion into these new areas are that they continue to be zones that are marginal
and vulnerable with elevated poverty; be zones where the participatory community development
approach merits consolidation in order to ensure long-term sustainability, and lastly, take advantage
of ODESYPANO's long track record and experience in this type of development that should be
capitalized upon. The objectives of the expansion are both quantitative and qualitative.
Quantitatively, the project will extend physical interventions to improve watershed management and
minimize soil erosion; qualitatively it seeks to improve the participatory approach to community
development so that the approach becomes a more generalized and institutionalized tool for
development interventions, thus maximizing the social capital existing in the CDs. In the forest
zones, the project will seek to better integrate the population into the local economy while
capitalizing on and improving the management of forest resources.
It is estimated that these new zones will benefit 68,000 people distributed in 11,000 households. The
statistical criteria used, in addition to the condition of the natural resource base previously indicated,
- 77 -



included the rate of dependency on rural employment, the percentage of households without potable
water; the percentage of land area subject to strong soil erosion, and the level of "integration" judged
by the proximity to ODESYPANO offices and the ratio of available agricultural land versus total
land area.
Khroumirie
A large part of these communities live in areas they have cleared in the forest, with temporary tenure
and uncontrolled use of the forest resources. Many male members of the households migrate to the
towns to supplement their income. Revenue to the communities is from cereals, pastures and olives
(10 percent); livestock (10 percent) and salaries from working in the forest (90 to 120 days a year).
Zone of extension. Approximately 20,000 people or 300 to 700 households live in the area.
Population density ranges from 40 to 140km2. Forests make up 40 to 90 percent of the total area.
There is a tradition of migration among the young. People live in small groups, on average 50
households in cleared areas in the forests or on the edge of the forest. Livestock production is the
main activity, and represents 40 to 50 percent of family revenue, supplemented with labor in forest
harvesting enterprises and out-migration. Land tenure is temporary and uncertain, and the Forestry
Code does not permit the populations to invest in long term activities such as arboriculture as this
would legitimize them being in the forest. Given the high migration and the tenure problems, the
project would emphasize the adding value to forest products and productive agriculture within this
context.
BXij
Old Zone. North of BejiL In this region, there are 73 communities covering an area of 40,000 ha,
with a substantial number living in clearings in the forest, and an annual rainfall of 800mm/yr, and a
semi-intensive agriculture of cereals, pasture, legumes, tobacco, which is regular and diversified.
There are approximately 42,000 people and 7,000 households, or 96 households per community.
There are approximately 3,8 ha per household. The main sources of revenue are agriculture (40
percent), livestock (30 percent) and the rest from working in the forest, neighboring towns.
South of Bela. The area covers an area of approximately 30,000ha, with 12,000 people or 2,000
households, or an average of 48 households per community. The households have an average of
15ha of agricultural land, and dispersed villages. Rainfall is on average 450 to 600mm/yr, with
cereals and pasture being the main crops and some mixed livestock herding. Revenues are mainly
from agriculture (40 percent), livestock (40 percent) and the rest from a variety of activities including
salaries from working in small enterprises as labor. The young generally seek employment in the
vicinity, but migration to other areas is limited.
Zone of extension. The area covers approximately 3,400ha, of which 1,500ha are forested, with a
population of approximately 1,700 households and a density of 200 people per km2, and a high
percentage of non-farming populations, estimated at 50 percent. The area is highly influenced by the
nearby town of Nefza and it also received a large influx of displaced people when a nearby dam, Sidi
El Barrak was constructed.  The principal activities are therefore off-farm.  Agriculture
intensification is evident in the area, particularly of livestock and pasture development and milk
commercialization.  Cooperatives for milk and honey production have been formed and are
functioning and successful. The potential for further development of this type of activity exists.
- 78 -



Kef-Siliana
Old Zone. The area covered would consist of 41 communities covering 52,000 ha and a population
of 20,000 people in 3,000 households, an average of 73 households per community and 805 ha per
community, and 11 ha per household. There are approximately 30 to 40 people per km2. Rainfall is
about 350 to 450 mm/yr with very low yields, 5 to 10 Quintals/ha. Livestock is the most important
source of revenue (at least 30 percent of household income).
Zone of extension. The area covered is approximately 63,000ha, of which 19,000ha are forested.
The number of beneficiaries is expected to be 26,400 or 4,370 households. Agricultural production
is mainly of cereals and olives. Land area varies from 10 to 100 ha per household, but there is
significant fragmentation and soil degradation. The number of landless vary between Douars but
they constitute between 10 to 25 percent of the households, and further analysis is needed to identify
and incorporate activities to benefit them.
Bizerte (Sejenane)
Old zone. The area covered is approximately 8,000ha, of which approximately 3,800ha are
permanent pastures rehabilitated by the NWDP project. The population is approximately 13,000
people in 2,200 households, approximately 92 households per community and approximately 290ha
agricultural land and 150ha of pastureland per community. The population density is very high (54
people per square km), with an average of 1.6ha per family. Average rainfall is about 700 to
900mm/yr. Soil quality is best suited for tobacco and pasture than cereals. Livestock production
accounts for up to 60 percent of household revenues, followed by tobacco (10 percent), honey (10
percent), artisanal (10 percent), and salaries from labor (5 percent). There is also temporary
migration to the cities. There is no zone of extension in Bizerte.
The Integrated Participatory Approach (Approche Participative Integree - API)
The API, as it was applied for the NWDP, constituted an innovation in project implementation and is
an appropriate and effective tool to encourage the local populations to participate in project
activities. The use of the approach has also resulted in an improved standard of living of the
participating populations through improved revenues, infrastructure and improved access to
micro-credit. However, there is still a need to improve the capacity of these populations to enable
them to "drive" development activities that benefit them. As such, the approach will continue to be
improved and applied. Of importance will be the institutionalization of the approach that will result
in community demand driven (CDD) type activities.
The CDP have been based on detailed community-level diagnostics incorporating all the members of
the CD of a terroir. However, the formulation of the CDP have been to a large extent, technical
formulations of use by the Office, with limited comnmunity participation. In the future, it has been
recommended that the training of the field animators (animateurs/animatrices-conseillers) should
include more in terms of the social aspects of community development based on the study of the
dynamics of the production systems and their evolution, and that the CDs be active participants in the
formulation of the CDPs in order to incorporate them into the planning as well as the
implementation. This will provide the opportunity for closer interaction and learning between the
field animators and the communities. This closer participation in the long-term planning of
community development will ensure that the people understand their responsibilities and
commitments to the sustainability of the investments. It is planned that technical training for all the
stakeholders will begin to take place even prior to the initiation of the project, and that technical
- 79 -



assistance will be furnished to ensure the soundness of the approach.
Experience from the NWDP has shown that the constitution of CD reflected a fairly homogeneous
approach reflecting the interests and needs of the close-knit beneficiaries. This approach ensured the
adherence of the population, eased conflict resolution and ensured the smooth working of the CD,
but overall limited the variety of interventions. The results also showed that although the CDP
prepared were for an implementation period of five years, their execution was generally completed
after an average of three years. Complementary incentives are needed to keep the local communities
interested in the follow-up non-investment type activities. However, because the CD were small and
had inadequate capacity to participate in activities with other agencies, once the investments
sponsored by ODESYPANO were completed, they could not easily attract financing to meet group
needs. These results demonstrate that the CD institutional structures were not fully mature to take on
long-term development responsibilities.
To address these problems, the project will support the consolidation of CD that completed the
implementation of at least one CDP under the NWDP into larger more sectoral CDPs that include a
broader range of actors and interests. These CDP would represent a "second generation CDP" which
could evolve into socio-professional structures centered around a common interest/theme that would
benefit from financial and technical support from, aside ODESYPANO, other governmental and
non-goverrnental institutions. In the proposed restructuring of ODESYPANO, the project has
created a specific Unit responsible for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and for
Partnerships (UPPAP). Besides refining the participatory approach, the UPPAP would explore
potential partnerships with prospective governmental and non-governmental institutions to
implement the project as a whole, but also to seek technical support for participating CD and
financing for the CDP developed, and allow for the gradual disengagement of the ODESYPANO.
In the extension zone, the process of community organization and planning will follow the methods
that have already proven successful in previous NWDP zones. In these areas, the CDP prepared (first
generation CDP) would be with an emphasis on group homogeneity to ensure that the different and
more local needs of the beneficiaries are taken into account. These first generation CDP would
consist primarily of the investment phase for an average duration of three to five years depending on
beneficiary capacity. During the implementation of this first generation CDP, the second generation
CDP would be prepared with beneficiary population and CRDA, and other potential partner
participation. The project would emphasize integration of women, the youth, the unemployed and
the landless to increase their potential benefits.
Consultations with the beneficiary communities on the need for natural resource management would
start during implementation of the first generation CDP. In addition, emphasis would be placed on
capacity building activities to give the groups the potential to negotiate, resolve conflicts, carry out
administrative activities, access credit and define the roles and responsibilities of their members.
The project will also help groups in forming a link with the Administration to give them a "voice" in
decisions taken concerning the region's rural development planning, improve their access to technical
assistance and other benefits that could assist the groups. Given the previous experience with the
NWDP, and on the results of the targeting and micro-project studies, the project would put more
emphasis of facilitating access to credit for beneficiaries, not only from BTS, but also other potential
financing sources.
Experience from the NWDP on beneficiary contribution rates, both in cash and kind, showed that
beneficiaries are willing to pay more for activities which they perceive to be highly beneficial.
Beneficiary participation in the NWDP was higher than expected, particularly for activities such as
- 80 -



soil and water conservation works where the results of improved water infiltration and higher
productivity were readily demonstrated.
Another important feature of the project will be the flexibility with which the project would support
the evolution of CD into fonnalized structures such as GDA and GFIC. The project will encourage
this evolution if it is demand-driven and if the CD identify activities that are of sufficient interest to
constitute and sustain such a grouping. Cooperatives would be supported to build on existing
capacity and similar experiences would be encouraged if demanded by the beneficiaries. The gradual
disengagement of ODESYPANO from areas and CD that have already benefited from at least two
cycles of CDI' is expected to proceed on the basis of evaluations and indicators to be developed at
project appraisal. These will include quantitative measures of outputs (numbers and types of CDs
and CDP) as well as qualitative measures of institutional capacity and maturity of the institutions to
carry on their development programs.
Finally, the proposed pilot projects in land consolidation and to support forest dwelling communities,
will be implemented jointly with ODESYPANO through protocols established with other
government agencies directly responsible for these aspects.
- 81 -



Additional Annex 12
ODESYPANO and its partners
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Partnerships
Government Partners
ODESYPANO was created by law 81-17 on March 9, 1981 with a mandate to protect fragile ecosystems
of the North West region while promoting the development of rural infrastructure. Operating in a region
whose socio-economic indicators were well below national statistics, ODESYPANO gradually modified
its mandate to include poverty reduction objectives after 1990 with the adoption of participatory
approaches (Approche Participative Integr6e - API) to design multi-annual Community Development
Plans (CDPs). In 1996, the Office became a Non Administrative Statutory Body (Elablissement Public d
caractere Non-Administratif - EPNA) with increased autonomy. During the past two decades, there has
been a multiplication of development agencies operating in the region, including CRDAs, NGOs, several
Government sponsored agencies, GTZ and KfW. The emergence of the new partners, and the need for
the Government to rationalize flmding for development activities in the region, has prompted
ODESYPANO to review its operational mandate, to examine the possibilities of building partnerships
with other Governmental and non-governmental agencies, and to implement only those activities for
which it has the best comparative advantage while contracting out or withdrawing completely from those
it is least equipped to efficiently and cost-effectively implement.
Several potential partners have been identified that could be valuable as the evolution of ODESYPANO's
role advances further. This annex presents a brief description of the most immediate potential partners
and the activities to which they could potentially participate. A detailed analysis of these agencies and
partnerships is included in the Project Implementation Plan, including their human and financial
resources, capacity to fund and or implement activities. Prior to project implementation, a strategy for
ODESYPANO's involvement into new partnerships with other public and private institutions involved in
rural development, will be articulated. A template of the type of agreements, contracts and conventions
that would be signed in this perspective has been prepared and will be submitted for approval to the
Project Steering Committee, including among others, MEHAT and MAERH, in time for project
effectiveness.
CRDA. The Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development (Commissariats Regionaux de
developpement agricole, CRDA), of which there are five in the northwest, are the regional
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources and expected to
become among the most important partners of ODESYPANO. The CRDAs have five Divisions:
promotion and extension services for agricultural production, equipment and hydrology, reforestation and
protection of soils, studies and agricultural development, and financial and administrative services. These
regional offices have significant human and financial resources, and use a relatively flexible procurement
system. A study is presently underway to reform the CRDAs, the main change would be a reduction of
the Divisions from the five mentioned above to three: natural resources, agricultural production and
financial and administrative services. Given the wide array of activities covered by the divisions in the
CRDAs, from infrastructure development to extension services, the CRDAs represent perhaps the most
important partnerships in terms of rationalizing Government resources.
- 82 -



With regards to joint implementation, the five CRDA would participate in various activities; first of all,
in the preparation of the Community Development Plans (CDPs), but also in their implementation
through, for example, the carrying out of heavy soil and water conservation works and the delivery of
veterinary services. In addition, because the forestry activities are executed through forestry units (
Arrondissements Forestiers) in the CRDAs, these would be involved with ODESYPANO and the
beneficiaries in silvicultural activities in the forests.
It is however very important to recognize that the degree to which the partnerships are successful will be
tempered by two key factors: (i) the willingness of the CRDAs to participate; and (ii) the fact that until
now, ODESYPANO has programmed its work with local populations using a socio-territorial base
structure, under which activities are planned and implemented by a population belonging to a single/or a
few number of homogenous Douars (village communities), whereas the CRDAs have predominantly used
a sectoral approach, where the work is planned at the district level (with the exception of activities
funded externally).
General Directorate of Forestry (Direction Generale des Forets - DGF). DGF consists of four
Directions : (i) Forestry Conservation; (ii) Sylvo-pastoral Development; (iii) Socio-economic
Development; and (iv) Regulation and Control, and it operates at the regional level through the CRDAs
and the Arrondissemenst Forestiers. The DGF has a say in the development program prepared by
ODESYPANO on natural resource management. The Arrondissements Forestiers also implement
forestry activities in ODESYPANO's zone of intervention. DGF is, like CRDA, a key partner for the
Office, particularly now as the extension zone of the project would include activities in forested areas. In
addition, many agricultural families living in and around forested areas are also directly dependent on
forest resources, and to find an equilibrium between the needs of these communities and the development
and sustainable management of forestry and related natural resources, requires not only that forest
commumities participate, but also that DGF and ODESYPANO coordinate their activities. Although,
DGF Ead ODESYPANO have collaborated informally before, ODESYPANO has not to date worked
with populations that are predominantly forest dwelling.
Office for Livestock and Pasture (Office de i'dlevage et pdturages - OEP). This agency has four key
objectives: (i) improvement of livestock and its productivity; (ii) improvement of grazing resources; (iii)
monitoring and development of livestock techniques and grazing resources production; and (iv)
monitoring of the livestock sector and contributing to its economic development. ODESYPANO worked
in partnership with this agency under the recently closed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development
Project (LN 3691-TUN), and they significantly improved the genetic makeup of cattle, milk and meat
production. This partnership will be continued through this project. OEP would collaborate with
ODESYPANO in continuing the genetic improvement of cattle through its provision of high quality bulls
for natural insemination and/or semen for artificial insemination, the requisite technical assistance and
monitoring of the participants.
Agriculture Land Agency (Agence Fonciere Agricole - AFA). This agency will continue its
collaboration on land consolidation in non-irrigated areas that it started during the first NWDP project.
Specifically, the partnership would cover the following activities: (i) the identification of potential zones
to implement consolidation activities; (ii) development of an action plan of the activities that would be
implemented during the five-year project period; (iii) delimitation of the perimeters to be consolidated,
the realization of the consolidation and the preparation of titles.
- 83 -



Ministry of Equipment, Housing and Territory Development (Ministere de l'equipement, de
l'Habitat et de I'Amenagement des Territoires - MEHAT). The MEHAT is responsible for the
development of road networks in Tunisia. However, these networks do not include roads that are in very
remote areas or that are not tarred and less than a specified width. This exception has resulted in
maintenance issues of certain rural roads that have been constructed by ODESYPANO. For these remote
roads, there is no legal statute designating a particular agency for their maintenance and they are
therefore not programmed in the general development plans prepared nationally or regionally. A study is
presently underway to find solutions to this issue, with the key one being to share the responsibility
between the beneficiaries and the Regional Councils (Conseils Regionaux), with support from the
regional representatives of the MEHAT. If the recommendations are taken up, then MEHAT would be
expected to participate in the rehabilitation and construction of roads in the intervention areas of
ODESYPANO, but again, the extent of its participation would be based on the classification system,
which means that there is a risk that certain road networks will remain outside the reach of MEHAT.
This issue must not be debated at the level of the project but must be tackled on a macro level as it affects
more than just the present project.
Agency for Agricultural Extension and Training (Agence de Vulgarisation et de Formation Agricole
- AVFA). AVFA is responsible for: (i) contributing to the conception and diffusion of technical
information to farmers; (ii) coordination of agricultural technologies dissemination and diffusion
programs at the regional level and support to CRDA and training centers in implementing agricultural
extension policies; (iii) production and diffusion of audio-visual and written scripts for use by the CRDA,
and technical centers; and (iv) assisting farmers undertake activities related to information diffusion and
for promoting socio-professional groups. At the local level, the implementation of the programs prepared
by AVFA is the responsibility of the Community Development Territorial Cells (Cellules Territoriales
de Vulgarisation, CTV). AVFA has a dedicated budget for carrying out these activities, and also has the
mandate to contract out needed technical assistance, and they have a dedicated Commission de marches.
AVFA would participate in the project by extending its services into areas covered by ODESYPANO,
particularly the yearly regional training days it organizes on topics such as the economy of irrigation
water. In addition, AVFA would also organize special training for beneficiaries, as identified by
ODESYPANO. To facilitate the arrangement, ODESYPANO would be expected to make vehicles
available for field trips by the extension officers.
Other potential Government partners. In implementing the project components related to agricultural
and pastoral development as well as sustainable natural resource management, potential partnerships are
also expected to be formed with the various research institutes, such as, IRESA, INRAT, INRGREF,
INAT, as well as agricultural colleges. These partnerships will only be confirmed once specific studies
and research topics have been identified during the initial year or two of the project's implementation.
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO).
Several NGOs are operating in the Northwest region and they all could potentially participate. Their
participation with ODESYPANO will be determined by their current and future strategies and activities,
and also by how these activities match those articulated under the project. Four key identifiable areas for
participation by NGOs are: (i) support to the populations where the investment stage is under completion
or completed, but there is still significant capacity building needs to increase local communities capacity
to undertake their own development agenda; (ii) creating of/and support to associations of collective
interest such as existing ones for water, forests, soil and water conservation in collaboration with
ODESYPANO' animateurs/trices; (iii) training of local beneficiaries in subjects such as financial
management, micro-projects and market research; and (iv) acting as intermediaries for the provision of
- 84 -



micro-credit originating from local banks which the populations would not otherwise have access.
Socio-professional organizations and beneficiary communities
Three types of partners are recognizable under this group; informal organizations, formal organizations
and representative organizations. Because informal organizations and formal organizations have been the
ones involved with ODESYPANO in pioneering the API under PNRO (1982 - 1989) and NWDP
(1994-200 1), they will be at the core of the implementation strategy of PNO.
Informal organizations. These groups are formed around a common social or economic interest and are
organized with the assistance of the NGOs, ODESYPANO and/or other organizations. The key
representative unit which serves for the formulation of CDP is the Development Commnittee (CD) which
is at a Douar level or combines a group of homogenous Douars.
Formal organizations. Several organizations of this type are active and invest in rural development in
the region. They include the Forestry Associations with Collective Interest (AFIC), Associations for the
Conservation of Water and Soils (ACES), and the more comnmercial Agricultural Services Cooperatives (
CAS), Groups with Collective Interest (GIC), and the Agricultural Development Associations (GDA)
recently created by Law No. 9943 of 10/05/1999. The GDAs were also established as a tool to
rationalize the proliferation of groups centered around single activities, several of them often organized
by the same groups of beneficiaries. The GDAs are more general and encompassing, and can include
several activities at the same time. One of their promising feature is that contrary to the CDs, they can
receive, and manage public funds for implementing their mandate.
Modalities of Partnerships
Three types of partnership were identified for use by the project: (i) the complete transfer of the
implementation and maintenance of certain activities, including, in most cases the financing; (ii)
implementation through sub-contracting of activities; and (iii) implementation through conventions of
collaboration.
Transfer of responsibilities. This category of partnership mainly concerns rural infrastructure, such as
schools, clinics and some roads that will be transferred to respective local Governments for their
maintenance. For certain investments, it was agreed that ODESYPANO would first rehabilitate them
before they can be handed over to the CRDA program. A transfer would also be carried out in the case
of activities for which ODESYPANO does not have a comparative advantage for either establishment or
maintenance, such as for irrigated perimeters, potable water, prophylaxis and crop campaigns and
phyto-sanitary protection. The financing of activities transferred would be normally at the cost of the
receiving agency and would be integrated into their program, except perhaps for the roads where the new
regulations being debated would be needed to finalize the issue. Possible partners in this arrangement are
the CRDAs, OEP, AVFA, DREHAT, Regional offices for Public Health, Regional Offices for
Education, CR, certain Arrondissements of CRDAs and some NGOs.
Sub-contracting. ODESYPANO would contract out the implementation of certain activities to capable
agencies, and it would assure the payment of the work, while staying within the mandated one to three
percent of the contract cost provided for overhead cost to the participating agency. Under this type of
arrangement, ODESYPANO and the participating agency would jointly give the non-objection for
procurement documents, but ODESYPANO would be responsible for the payments. Possible partners in
this arrangement are DREHAT, CR, certain Arrondissement of CRDA and some NGOs.
- 85 -



Conventions of collaboration. For certain activities, ODESYPANO will prepare conventions of
collaboration, which could be managed by ODESYPANO's regional offices for those to involve the
CRDAs and NGOs, but by ODESYPANO central office for the others. The convention could be
prepared on an annual basis or based on an agreed longer term program depending on activities. This
category would particularly concern the following partners: CRDAs, IRESA, OEP, DGF, AVFA and
some NGOs.
Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships (UPPAP)
UPPAP will be created prior to project implementation and should become fully functional by the end of
the project's first year of implementation. The Unit will be managed by a high level staff member who
would report directly to the Director General. The Unit will have two primary roles: promoting the use
of the API and promoting partnerships with Government and non-government agencies and
organizations. At the regional level, UPPAP would be operating through the Community Development
and Technical Assistance Department for the purpose of promoting the API, and through the regional
offices for promoting partnerships. Specifically, the following activities are proposed
Promoting the use of the API
*   Assess and synthesize results of studies and experiences using API that have been carried out
in Tunisia and in other countries,
* Develop/fine-tune and test API methods and experimental tools adapted to ODESYPANO's
intervention zones,
* Prepare and disseminate API manuals and booklets describing the different steps for the use
of API, from communities' identification and organization to CDP formulation and
implementation,
* Design and organize training sessions targeted to enhance the, use of API for ODESYPANO
staff and partners involved in implementation,
* Carry out seminars/workshops, study tours, and document dissemination to promote the use
of API for rural development.
Promoting Partnerships
* Seek potential partnerships for project activities in close collaboration with the implementing
Departments,
* Monitor partnership activities, based on the conventions and contracts signed, and propose
ways in which these partnerships can be enhanced,
*   Promote partnership arrangements among all actors through sensitization workshops
organized at the Governorate level, organizing meetings with the different agencies,
pro-actively represent and be involved in ODESYPANO's Regional and Local Councils
discussions; and seek to build consensus when disagreements arise.
- 86 -



Additional Annex 13
Summary of the Environmental Assessment
TUNISIA: Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project
Executive Summary
The Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out as part of the preparation of the Northwest
Mountainous and Forest Areas Development Project (NWDFP). The project intervention zones are
characterized by: (i) severe natural resources degradation essentially due to soil erosion and deforestation
which are compounded by the lack of alternative incomes sources; and (ii) low agricultural land
productivity, primarily due to poor soil quality, soil fragility and susceptibility to erosion often worsened
by the inappropriate use of agricultural practices and techniques.
The project development objective is to improve the socio-economic conditions of the populations in five
govemorates covering the mountainous and forested areas of the northwest region; Beja, Bizerte, Kef,
Jendouba and Siliana. The project components are: (a) Institutional Strengthening for ODESYPANO and
Partners; (b) Implementation of Pilot Operations; (c) Agricultural and Livestock Development; (d)
Sustainable Natural Resource Management; and (e) Improvement of Basic Rural Infrastructure.
The environmental assessment was carried out on all project components which were found to be in
conformity with all of the World Bank's safeguard policies. In addition, the assessment also highlighted
the project's potential for strong positive impacts through increased vegetative cover, improved soil
fertility and water resource management. It was also found that through the various project activities, the
project would contribute to improving the social and economic living conditions of the beneficiary
populations.
More specifically, the soil and water conservation activities (including agroforestry, pastoral and
sylvo-pastoral activities to be executed under the component " Sustainable Natural Resource
Management ") will contribute to slowing hydraulic erosion, restoring land fertility as well as increasing
the vegetative cover in the project zone. Furthermore, the pilot forestry management operations will
contribute to increasing vegetative cover, reducing the population pressure on natural resources as well
as the degradation of agricultural land resources. Overall, increased vegetative cover will also contribute
to reducing river and barrage siltation in a region with the country's most important watersheds.
By providing basic infrastructure services, the project will increase access to, among others, public
health, education and drinking water which will have a positive impact on the health, particularly that of
children and in general of the living conditions of the beneficiary populations. The construction and
rehabilitation of potable water systems will also have positive impacts.
Furthermore, it is expected that the project will contribute to the overall EA preparation capacity of
ODESYPANO, participating partners and the beneficiary populations, through training and awareness
sessions as planned through the Institutional Strengthening Component. The project will also contribute
to strengthening local capacity to carry out EA by integrating the assessment process in the preparation
cycle of the PDC. This "drop down" in the process allows the populations to participate in the
assessment, proposal of mitigation measures and eventual execution of the measures retained.
Although the overall impact of the project is positive, careful planning and assessment will need to be
- 87 -



exercised to minimize potential negative impacts from rural infrastructure activities, construction of soil
and water conservation structures, establishment of irrigation perimeters, and possibly the rural land
consolidation and forestry management activities. For example, poor site selection for infrastructure
development could disturb fragile soils leading to its susceptibility to erosion during floods or torrential
rains. Poor planning could also result in the disturbance of fragile ecosystems and natural resources in
general and/or accidental pollution. Moreover, possible negative impacts such as increased fertilizer and
chemical use which could in turn result in soil and water pollution could happen if adequate attention is
not paid in the creation of irrigation perimeters.
The EA does not identify specific risks nor mitigation measures a priori, and environmental screening
will be carried out for all activities while environmental assessments will be carried out only for specific
activities that are likely to have potential environmental impacts. In addition, the project's operational
manual (manuel de procedures) for ODESYPANO will include the procedure developed for the
environmental evaluation in the Environmental assessment.
The EA prepared consists of the following actions:
Capacity Building
Training and awareness raising: The review found that the EA preparation capacity in ODESYPANO is
modest and needs to be strengthened to satisfy project needs for the preparation and commissioning of
EA. As such, it is planned that from the first year of the project, ODESYPANO staff, principal
participating partner agencies and local NGOs get training on general environmental issues in the region,
commissioning and executing EA and the preparation and monitoring of environmental impacts.
Environmental Screening (ES) and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) preparation: Again, the
available capacity in ODESYPANO for ES and EIA preparation and monitoring and evaluation need to
be strengthened. To increase their capacity it is planned that a national consultant will assist
ODESYPANO in carrying out the initial screening operations, thereby also providing on the job training
for ODESYPANO. Follow-up of EA procedures would be the responsibility of the Community
Development and Technical Assistance Department.
Inspection and appraisal of EIA: The National Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ANPE)
is the legal entity responsible for EIA inspection and assessments. Once the EIA have been prepared,
ODESYPANO would seek ANPE's approval. Given the large number of EA to be carried out, it is
expected that ODESYPANO would also benefit through the convention they will sign with ANPE for
environmental training, as well as the carrying out of some of the EA. If needed, national consulting
firms/individuals would be hired to assist in the preparation of EIA for the more complex issues.
Monitoring and evaluation of the environmental project impact: This will be carried out as part of the
overall M&E effort through the framework of the proposed upgraded Geographic Information System
(GIS). Monitoring indicators of the EIA and/or EA would be included in the GIS system and monitored
periodically to assess impact. The improved GIS system is expected to improve the quality of
information stored in the database, improve access of information to users, as well as improve the
monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation impact on natural resources in the future.
Table I below shows the cost estimates for the capacity building, preparation and supervision of EIA and
the monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts activities planned in the project.
- 88 -



Table 1. Cost estimates. They include only those linked to the capacity building, preparation and
supervision of EIA and the monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts.
Impact measurement             Implementation      Estimated cost   Funding        Calendar
instrument          in Dinar         source
Tunisian
Training and awareness
campiiins
Awareness of ODESYPANO         Workshop for 30    15000             PNO (included  First trimester of
staff and its partners on      persons                              rein the capacity  the project
environmental aspects                                               reinforcement)
50000                             First trimester of
Training of technical staff on  One week training                                  PNO
environmental assessments      seminar for 14
persons
Training of NGOs, small private                   25000                             First trimester of
enterprises and beneficiaries on  Two day workshop                                 PNO
EA preparation                 for 25 participants
Environmental screenin2 and
assessment
Technical assistance for      National consultant (2  10000         NWDFP           In parallel with
application of screening      persons-months)                                       PDC preparation
procedures                                                                          During the
National consultant (5  25000         NWDFP          preparation of
Technical support for preparation persons-months)                                   DS
of brief summary descriptions
National consultant  100000           NWDFP          In parallel with
Preparation of EA             (20 persons per month                                feasibility
/EIE)                                                studies
Inspection and appraisal of EIE
and DS
As soon as the
Support to ANPE               6 person-months      30000            NWDFP           project starts
Monitoring and evaluation of
PNO impacts on environment
Reinforcement of the existing  Lumpsum             50000            NWDFP           First year of
GIS                                                                 (included in    PNO
GIs                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~capacity
.___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___   ____ ___ ___ __building)
TOTAL                              305.000 DT
Environmental Mitilation Plan
A brief description of the potential impacts and their mitigation measures are described below. These
measures describe the type of actions that must be taken into consideration during activity design. It is
important to note that these are indicative mitigation measures and that the specific measures will be
identified within the framework of the specific EIA which would be prepared during project
implementation. Table 2 below contains a characteristic example of monitoring and evaluation indicators
- 89 -



for the most pertinent components project.
Table 2. Example of an environmental mitigation plan
Activity              Monitoring and evaluation indicators   Responsibility              Calendar
Road construction                Drainage system in place and                            - Bi-annual
well maintained                    DREHAT/Office/Beneficiarie  - After heavy rain
*      General status of the road  s
Visible disturbances in the
area around the road
Small irrigated                  Main system well maintained  GR/hygiene                 Bi-annual
perimeters                *      Drainage system is well     service/Beneficiaries
maintained
*      Quality criteria are respected
*      Use of fertilizer and other
chemnical treatment are controlled,
monitored and kept at a minimum
Provision  of drinkin    *       Drinking water quality norms  Hygiene service          Following current
water                    are respected                                                   egulations
*       Drinking water outlet is well                          Bi-annual
isolated and well maintained
*       Area to be protected is well
delimited
Forest pilot operations  *       Degradation status         ODESYPANO/GDF/Beneficiari Bi-annual
*       Existence of a monitoring and  es
evaluation plan
*       Participation in the ES of local
population
Soil and water            *      Status of infrastructure    ODESYPANO/Beneficiaries     Bi-annual
conservation              constructed/rehabilitated
*      Conmmunity participation rate
in the maintenance of the infrastructure
*      Visible negative impacts
Overall, the NWDFP project is expected to have a positive impact on the management of natural
resources, as well as contributing to attaining an equilibrium for agro-sylvo-pastoral production systems
and the socio-economic conditions of the target population. Although the identifiable potential negative
impacts are minimal, sufficient care and attention should be paid to the design, evaluation and
implementation of selected activities. As such, the preparation, implementation and monitoring and
evaluation of the environmental management plan will be critical.
Potential Environmental Impacts from Project Activities
Overview
The NWDFP will generate significant positive and sustainable changes to the ecosystems treated - in
particular increasing the vegetative cover, improving soil fertility and water resource management -
which should contribute to better(Idah=too may improve/d) the socio-economic conditions for the
beneficiary populations. Most of the project components contribute to improving natural resources
management, but also to increase agricultural and pastoral production through the adoption and
adaptation of better cultural and animal husbandry techniques. The soil and water conservation activities
- including agro-forestry, pastoral improvement and sylvo-pastoral activities that will be implemented
- 90 -



under the "Sustainable Natural Resource Management Component", over an approximate surface area of
48,000 ha - will contribute without doubt to diminishing hydraulic erosion, improving soil fertility and
increasing perennial vegetative cover in the project zone. The soil and water conservation activities are
primordial in a region characterized by severe degradation of vulnerable natural resources.
The pilot forestry operations - through its support to the development and use of improved techniques,
promotion of the rational use of forest resources and development and implementation of alternative
livelihood activities - will contribute to reducing animal and human pressure on the scarce resources.
Sensitization and awareness campaigns will be supported through most of the project components but, in
particular, the extension services to be implemented through the "Agricultural and Livestock
Development Component", will serve as an excellent tool to disseminating environmental messages to
farmers.
Infrastructure development, particularly those linked to drinking water, should not only result in a
significant improvement in the living conditions of the rural populations through better access to basic
public services but, most importantly, for activities such as drinking water, a positive impact is expected
on the population health, particularly for children.
Furthermore, the development of partnerships between different agencies on the ground should result in
more coherent activity planning and better integrated implementation, which should consequently
translate into improved intervention efficiency. This is particularly important for soil and water
conservation activities targeted to watershed management.
Environmental Analysis of the Components
The analysis by component presented here remains indicative because final activity selection will be
determined by local community demand and articulated in Community Development Plans (CDP). As
such, the analysis presented here is representative and detailed EA will be carried out during project
implementation for activities that could have a potentially significant negative impact.
Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners component. Positive impacts: The
component will support capacity building activities for ODESYPANO and its implementation partners,
including the beneficiary comnmnunities in the conmmissioning and preparation of EA/EIA as well as
carrying out environmental screening. Technical staff will receive training on the integration of
environmental aspects in the planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of EA/EIA and
ES. Most importantly, the component supports capacity building of local beneficiaries in environmental
screening through training and sensitization activities. In addition, the project will support the "drop
down" of environmental assessments and screening to the local implementation level by integrating these
activities into the CDP preparation. The monitoring and evaluation of the mitigation measures will be
integrated into the overall Geographic Information System (GIS) used to monitor project progress. This
integration will contribute to increasing efficient environmental management. Potential negative
impacts: No negative environmental effects are expected from this component.
Agricultural and livestock development component.   Positive impacts: The component will
contribute to improving natural resources management through the adoption and use of agricultural and
pastoral development techniques that are compatible: with natural resource management.  The
development and improvement of pasture areas should also translate into a reduction of the pressure on
the natural resources. Participating populations will also benefit from planned agricultural extension
services which should further contribute to efficient use of improved natural resources management
-91 -



friendly technical packages. The sensitization and training exercises on good practice in agricultural and
pastoral development will be supported by an updated technical reference guide that will be updated and
adapted to fit the specific ecosystems during project implementation.
Another aspect to be supported under this component concems the improvement of livestock health by
reducing the risk of transmissible diseases to humans, which should ultimately translate to improved
human health.
Furthermore, efforts will be made to include environmental issues in the technical reference to ensure
that this is integrated in the extension services when they are carried out.
Potential negative impacts:  No significant negative impacts are expected to result from the
implementation of activities in this component.  A  negative impact could result from  the
over-exploitation of groundwater resources (groundwater), the increased use of fertilizers and chemical
herbicides due to agricultural intensification. In addition, inefficient adaptation of improved techniques
could have the effect of increasing the phenomenon of erosion and land degradation. Through the
monitoring and evaluation activities planned under the project as well as the extension services and
training, it is expected that this potentially adverse impact will be avoided. Also, environmental
screening for all activities will be carried out prior to investments.
Sustainable natural resource management. Positive impacts: The key objective of this component is
to reduce the phenomenon of soil erosion and degradation, as well as improve soil fertility, ultimately
increasing agricultural production. This objective will be achieved through mechanical and biological
soil erosion control. By using agroforestry species of commercial value, the component also contributes
to improving beneficiary household income, which increases the potential for the activity's sustainability.
Through the use of improved forest management techniques, the component would contribute to better
forest production, improved capacity of the forest to contribute to environmental management services
and a general improvement in the living conditions of the beneficiary populations who participate in the
forest management activities.  The rational use of these scarce resources and the participatory
management envisaged will also contribute to their sustainable management.
Potential negative impacts:  No significant negative impacts are expected from this component.
However, the project will screen and monitor for potential adverse impacts before investments,
particularly for soil and water conservation small infrastructure to ensure that they are well sited and that
they will result in maximum benefits.
There is a potential risk that with more available grazing, the livestock population may increase. The
project will monitor for this effect and additionally the project will carry out sensitization campaigns and
extension services.
Improvement of basic rural infrastructure component. Positive impacts: The major positive impact
will result from improved access by the beneficiary populations to basic services. In addition, the
infrastructure planned will contribute to rational use of water resources, including reduced evaporation
and more efficient irrigation techniques.
Potential neQative impacts:  The majority of the work planned under this component will be
rehabilitation activities of a small scale, and the issues of noise and dust will not be major. Instead,
potential effects are more likely to result if the construction sites are not appropriately selected such that
- 92 -



they significantly disturb the soils making them       susceptible to erosion from    heavy rains.    This
phenomenon is particularly exacerbated if the works are carried out during the rainy season. As such, the
project will pay particular attention to the management of the site and its environrnent, avoid civil works
in the rainy season and ensure adequate drainage where the roads are low-lying.
In the case of drinking water, measures will be taken to ensure that the acceptable hygiene normns are
respected, particularly that the well is covered and clean and excess water regularly drained. In the case
of irrigation systems that are established, a key consideration will be the provision of drainage to reduce
the incidences of salinity.
Prcicedure for Environmental Assessments in the project
The environmental assessment procedure that has been devised for use in the project emphasizes the
integration of the EA process from the planning stage of investments to the monitoring and evaluation
stage. Integration of the process is also at the level of the CDP which are elaborated with the
beneficiaries. Primarily, the procedure seeks to: (i) ensure that activities to be implemented in the
frarnework of the project do not result in negative environmental impacts; (ii) that potential impacts are
identified early and where necessary, an EA and or EIA is carried out; and (iii) that mitigation measures
are identified, implemented and monitored and evaluated. A description of the procedure is described in
the Table below.
Table 3. Environmental appraisal integration in the formulation procedure and PNO activities
execution
Activity development               Environmental requirements               Responsibilities
I. T:raining of CD
* Selection of intervention zones     a Environmental awareness              * Adviser-coordinator
* Awareness campaign for CD           * Sensitization on importance of EA     * NGOs
* Constitution of CD                  preparation
2. Needs identification
* Problems/needs identification      * Identification for EA needs           * A person from DARAT
* Solutions/demands formulation      * Proposed activities classification by  will be trained to carry out
* CDP pre-project elaboration        categories                             this activity.
* Identification of partners   .        Proposed classification approval     * Technical Support and Rural
Animation Direction (DARAT)
3. CDP formulation (in collaboration with
partners)                                * EIA preparation for determined        * Consultants
* CDP elaboration and finalization   activities
* Harmonization with other           * Brief environmental summary           * Consultants/Expert
programs/governmental projects       preparation for identified activities   (DARAT)
* Contracts-programs (CP) formulation  * EIA and summary submitted to ANPE   * ANPE
and partnership confirmation         for views and approval
* Partnership finding and regional level  * the environmental assessment     * Office/partners
additional                           incorporated in CDP
4. CDP lmplementatdon
* CP preparation and execution        * Include mitigation measures in CP  * Office/Consultants/NGOs
* Monitoring and Evaluation           and in contracts                    * Office/partners/Firms
* Insure that mitigation measures are  * Office/partners/Firms
executed in the field
* Bi-annual Environmental
Management Plan prepared and
executed and monitored
- 93 -












IBRD 31847
830'                      ~9oO'                       9iO'                      I 000'                              TUNISIA
So             O            TUNISIE
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS
.  <  X  Q '+Biz                                  AND FORESTRY AREAS
/,  -0 3                                          DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
M e d i t e r r a n a a n S e rJ           i z ' / El,''M d 4  t L    X                                           PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
/, _ ,Y-ZeE, b              *                            , r ! g -r DES ZONES MONTAGNEUSES ET
<_Sdi m;cr-g\~~~~(~ J                                                       ( > ?  FORESTIERES DU NORD-OUEST
PROJECT AREAS
E c-Io dZ7//ESo\JE! iA~ V                                                    ZONES D'INTERVENTION
3T~~~~~~OS'                                                                    5-           37W5'          PROJECT EXTENSION ZONES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7'0'  POEC   ETESONZO E
0i 3700',=._...f  ~   ><          5 <~  ~  ~  t  <       4       (                  ZONES DG'EXTENSION
CSRRENT PROJECT AREAS
|                     /    \    A     18    E  :N-    >  t  29 R , X X z5 D INI5RVNISON ACllELLES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONE DNTEVETIO ATUTLE
OUED A ECOUIEMENT PERENNE
T                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEASONAL RIVERS
OUED A ECOULEMENT INTERMITTENT
CITIES AND TOWNS
r--                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 2I~ A N A  Aria  *CITES ET VILLES
0 GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
*_'f/}, D                                     0                    _/ \ \ BenleS5t vLoric/: y __-1 , - v.  -  \ o M^dCAPITAIES GOUVERNORATS
TE~~ ~~ap  pood~cM by A.  ~ ,Rooj)EIKho.otri  "   I  fl,rnMo  -kNATIONAL CAPITAL
Thb,p  E  Wo, by . ,r l   Ri CAPITALE NATIONALE
Mop D.,af 0U" of Th. Wd,nOm; ,  T  /i  C   - f >   ATi4prsud <,  ,   1%,     <        Tk               i    iT7  UNIs*g -y\         --- SECTOR EOUNDARIES
Th, o-daoob ..... oEmow , inomo                                                                                                         jLIMITE DE SECTEUR
-d -y,h.p o ompI  nA  0  l,                              j                                                    TUNS      Be0-             SUBGOVERTRAEONARS
.htsmp d. - imply, th. pcrf                                                                                           B sg\ ($\ 5  ~1 L   t )\4L<u \  f  --  ; h  7  1-<0   I {   -3en(  LIMITE DE LEFO ATION
Tb. WooIdBonbG,oop,  Yi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o"'"                                                          GOVEENORATE BOUNDARIES~~~~~~rusGOVRNRAE OUDAIE
I. IontoIu0,lo. 01on o,nS,yeoo r  ol Ns -  1y I t,         \ N'kkouI                                                                   LIMITE DE GOLVERNORAT
-h b-d~...-                                                                                                         8 iNd-              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T ,D.. G                                                       7                                                     FRONTIERES INTERNA7IONALES
I eduba                                                                                                         KILOMETERS
<   t   \       >      < <t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dh. N.,d> Rih.n>                                                                              % 9  g \GREE q, TAf 
SPAIN 0(                   ITALY   GREC
CE                   K'1.~~~~~~~~~~~_~~~-Med~~~.1 Nt                                                                 M   itraj  ea-
IG ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~  ~   IY
N-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3600  /5 X<t\Sa0Lahun g._ 
ED  '2                       T                      -   0  -     KAIST X                           11O-UAN  n  l'( U
Eddy,                                         A G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'H 0-6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  A  N*AEI20
- I  kVAr-lmlUll  a                 J  {/       /~  ~   ~~~ Ke  %;4  (\  \ 
3~~                                                                    ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L Gg  ENS R I A 






IBRD 3184
8'30'                           9O00'                           930'                          To0SO                                       TUNISIA
TUNISIE
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS
AND FORESTRY AREAS
,'  ' tizeR $ tDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
M e dite rra n eo n    S e a                                                                                                         DES ZONES MONTAGNEUSES ET
A.                                           Y                                          - n l | ,t 2      5 / FORESTIERES DU NORD-OUEST
TARGET SECTORS FOR PILOT OPERATIONS
SECTEURS-CIBLES POUR OPERATIONS-PILOTES
TARGET SECTORS FOR.
/                            ~~~~~~~~~~~SECTEUJII CIELES POTENTIELS POUR:
PORESTRY PILOT OPERATION
;'APPU)I AU XOPERATIONS PILOTES FORESTitRES
F  X                           1E                                       5 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2\ a, LAN CONSOWLDAIO
t 37 '                                                               (      4   -              -'    A      R7~                I A N X _5E REMEMcREMENTDES TERRES
1111PROJECT EXTENSION ZONES
ZONES D'EXTENSION
1111CURRENT PROJECT AREAS
ZONES D,INTERVENTION ACTUELIES
t.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN FORESTED AREAS
PRIPICIPAUX MASSIFS FORESTIERS
AVi                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
A R I A N A  Ariono *              OUP~~~~~O A ECOULEAMENT PERENNE
S EASONAL RIVERS
ULED A ECOUIEMIENT INTERMITTENT
o CITIES AND TOWNS
TIIMIC               ~~~~~~~~CITES PT VOLLES
Th,sm opworrd-elh<l dud byth                                                                                                                                     gAlf9. CnmcoR API
Mop=,pg LS,, d Th.W,Wod Boo                                                                                                        '''.TI                      GIOVERNORATE CAPITALS
ThIE -s                                                                                                                                                        CPITALES GOUVERNORATS
-d oA~,oonoTNS*                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
Ai,J - >rwsbnop mrl>,onhl.rwdof oo9 17 ,n p(I y, l s oA.p^oA                                heok \'             |                TUN IS     Cen) 6*T          CAPITALE NATIONALE
.Py         . 1                                                                                                                                          _         2        _
Th.Wo,IdBSD(op,nnyIodgn,o  I                  - -.0 I                                                                                                                                   1 ~~'~'7  I  Arous  SECTOR BOUNDARIES
h~~ I~~~goIee~~~~n oln,y ErMO,p,o~~~~~~~~~  ~   N  U  I  I   \  ~~~~~~~''/~                                                            LIMITE OE SECTEURR
ony.odo,,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,c~~~~~~ot  ~~lBEN                                                                                               SUBGOVEREOrATE BOUNDARIES
-~~~~ ~LIMITE OPDELEGTION
AROUSJ                     GOVERNORATE EOUNDARIES
UIMITE OP GOUVERNORAT
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIED
PROPJTIPEES INTERNATIONALES
To.  'y'                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10  20  30     40
~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~~~~~63'                                KILOMETERS
SPAIN               (4IAY                 EEE
ZagI,houon                       To
L I B YVA
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8,B30>                            R                     I    T~93            KA IRI UN            536-00'                                   ,  ID 
APRIL 2002









Report No.:        23468  TUN
Type:     PAD



