ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Fte,o f PFverty
InfoShop
,t  \ ,isWi.
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/03/2002                             24263
Section I - Basic Information                                    June 3, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TUNISIA                                  Project ID: P072317
Project: Northwest Mountainou, and Forestry Areas  Task Team Leader: Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Development Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 15, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m): 27.89
Bank Approval: November 14, 2002                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSRE                              Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: ENVIRONMENT; RURAL
Status: Lending                                  DEVELOPMENT; POVERTY REDUCTION
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is to improve the socio-economic conditions of the populations in five
governorates covering the mountainous and forested areas of the northwest region, Beja, Bizerte, Kef,
Jendouba and Siliana, while ensuring sustainable management of the natural resources.
More specifically, the project will aim to increase household incomes through the improvement and
diversification of the agricultural/pastoral production systems as well as the promotion of off-farn
income-generating activities. The project would achieve this by supporting: (i) capacity building for the
beneficiary communities; (ii) limited institutional restructuring and capacity building for the
implementing agency, the Offic? de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest(ODESYPANO) and
its development partners to render them more effective at assisting the communities in planning,
implementing and monitoring their own rural development programs/activities; (iii) the identification and
implementation of income-generating activities, on and off-farm to increase revenues; (iv) the protection
and improvement in the management of natural resources; and (v) the improvement of the beneficiaries'
access to basic rural infrastructure.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Project Components. Project. design emphasizes local community participation and the activities
selected are the result of consultations with local communities. Because the project will apply a CDD
approach, these activities could vary during project implementation to reflect changes in community
needs. Although it is not explicitly mentioned in the component description, implementation of most
activities could involve other Government or non-governmental agencies.
Component 1: Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners (Total cost $3.3 million)
The component would support capacity building activities aimed at rendering ODESYPANO more



2
ISDS
efficient and cost-effective at planning, implementing and monitoring project activities, with particular
emphasis on support to the decentralized implementation structure of ODESYPANO. In addition, the
component would support speciific short-term well-defined activities targeted to increase the capacity of
ODESYPANO's partners, including the beneficiary populations, to effectively participate in the planning,
implementation and monitoring/evaluation of project activities. The component would finance three
sub-components:
*   Adjustment/strengthening of ODESYPANO's organizational structure to enable it to adapt
to its changing role through the: (i) redefinition of roles and responsibilities, including
human resources planning and management; (ii) the purchase of equipment and replacement
vehicles and some b,:uilding rehabilitation; (iii) provision of national technical assistance for
updating operations/procedures manuals and helping with the formulation of CDP in the first
two years of projeci. implementation;
*   Improvement of information systemto support project implementation and monitoring
with a decentralized structure, through: (i) the rationalization and upgrading of existing
information systemts, including strengthening the Geographic Information System (GIS),
Management Infonnation System (MIS) and audit system: (ii) the setting up of an M&E
system consistent with ODESYPANO's revised role; and (iiii) purchase of equipment and
materials to support the improved information systems and the migration of the existing
information/data to the new systems;
*   Training program to improve the skills and performance of ODESYPANO staff to
effectively implem,ent through financing the formulation and implementation of a training
and career development program for ODESYPANO, covering topics such as, planninig,
monitoring and evaluation, use of improved information systems, rural socio-economic
development and environmental matters; and
*   Capacity building for beneficiary communities and partnerjto enhance their capacity for
participating in the formulation and implementation of developmental activities, through: (i)
training activities, including visits to progressive/model areas; (ii) funding of workshops for
information sharing, planning and consensus building, and (iii) provision of small office
equipment/materials. Also included in this sub-component is the technical assistance for the
environmental screening/evaluation during the preparation of the CDP.
Component 2: Implementation of Pilot Operations (Total cost $3.9 million)
The component would support the implementation of pilot operations aimed at: (i) encouraging
beneficiary population participation in forestry activities, (ii) reducing land fragmentation, and (iii)
increasing on and off-farm revenues through the promotion of micro-projects. The areas in which these
pilots would be implemented will be selected with beneficiary participation. The component would have
three key sub-components:
*   Pilot integrated deulelopment operations to support forest dwelling communities to improve
their access to forest resources and contribute to the management of these resources, through
funding for: (i) preparation of contextually broader CDP to include forested areas; (ii)
provision of forestby extension services and small equipment to increase beneficiary access
to forest management activities on an estimated 15,000 ha; and (iii) training and carrying out
of trials/demonstrations on improved forestry practices;
*   Pilot land consolidation  operatiots facilitate/improve agricultural farming on
approximately 5,400 ha. The component would primarily finance: (i) information campaigns
for targeted comminities; (ii) implementation of land consolidation and titling operations;
and (iii) construction of small access tracks to the consolidated lands to enhance benefits
and ;



3
ISDS
*   Promotion of micro-projects/enterprises would finance: (i) niche analysis to identify viable
micro-projects and enterprises; (ii) training of selected beneficiaries and ODESYPANO staff
in, amongst other things, project formulation, credit and market analysis; (iii) assistance to
beneficiaries for the preparation of technically and financially sound proposals for
presentation to financing institutions; and (iv) support to marketing (participation in fairs,
advice for processing/packaging, information on quality standards).
Component 3: Agricultural and livestock development (Total cost $3.7 million)
This component would strengthen the extension services for better dissemination of improved technical
packages in crop production and livestock husbandry. It would also provide funding for the improvement
of livestock breeds and for veterinary services. The three sub-components are:
*   Agricultural extension to producers (i) updating and broadening of the technico-economic
reference manuals on agricultural technologies/practices, (ii) applied (short-duration, rapid
impact, demand-driven) research on production system diversification and improvement, (iii)
provision of training and demonstration equipment and materials to the extension services,
(iv) funding of small-scale investments to solve technical problems of broad local interest
(ex: seed processing/conservation and small machinery), and (v) specialized extension
services for milk production/processing;
*   Livestock development activitiesvould consist of: (i) provision of training for
inseminators, (ii) provision of genitors (bulls, rams and billy-goats), and (iii) funding of
selective investments in animal health and bee-keeping;
*   Rehabilitation of s.mall-scale irrigation schemeswould also include community wells and
springs when appropriate. The scale of the works supported under the project would depend
on beneficiary demand.
Component 4: Sustainable naitural resource management (Total cost $17.2 million)
The component would support ii.he improvement of environmental and natural resources management, by
concentrating on activities that the local beneficiaries can adapt, manage and maintain. There would be
three sub-components:
*   Soil and water conservationconsisting of civil works for : (i) controlling gully erosion,
mainly stone walls and plantations, and (ii) protecting against floods, mainly small dikes and
grass strips on private and state-owned lands.
*   Improvement of pirstures and rangelandsto support: (i) the establishment of pastures and
rangelands in degraded areas; and (ii) put back in use land areas that would have otherwise
been under/non utilized, to reduce the incidence of erosion and degradation.
*   Agro-forestry development through the establishment of agro-forestry plantations as a
complementary measure for mechanical soil and water conservation aclivities. Particular
emphasis will be put on matching appropriate species with the existing ecosystems, to
improve the environmental management and commercial values of the plantations.
Component 5: Improvement (of basic rural infrastructure (Total cost $16.7 million)
This component would support the rehabilitation and/or construction of basic rural infrastructure to
improve beneficiary community access to markets and social services in remotely located areas. The
component would have two sub-components:
*   Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads.The estimated quantities of civil works are



4
ISDS
based on estimates of the likely requests from the targeted communities and on assumptions
of cost-sharing with various other implementing agencies.
*   Improved access to potable watethrough the construction and/or rehabilitation of wells,
water cisterns and potable water connections.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project would be implemented in five Govenorates, Jendouba, Siliana, Bizerte, Beja and Kef. The
project area is mainly rural and dependent on rain-fed agriculture which is prone to climatic changes. The
region is highly vulnerable to soil erosion and degradation of natural resources because of its steep
slopes, geomorphology and high winter rainfall. The northwest region is also home to watersheds that
affect over 80 percent of Tunisia's water resources which highlights further, the need to protect soil and
water resources. The forests, of which the majority are found in the northwest, are also suffering
increasing pressure from grazing and deforestation from populations in and around the forests. Despite
the limited feed, livestock numbers have been steadily increasing and it is estimated that at least 0.7
million ha of forest and scrub-land are grazed.
B. Chieck Environmental Class!fication: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
The project is classified as B under OP4.01 because only limited potential impacts are anticipated,
mainly related to small civil works involved with construction of rural infrastructure facilities. Potential
minor environmental impacts may result from rural roads construction and or rehabilitation, creation of
small mechanical soil and water conservation structures and from the establishment of small-scale
irrigated perimeters if their design and implementation is not well conceived.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Plolicy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes C, No    . TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       C Yes 0 No       TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes * No    .D TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 ^Yes      No  .TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   C Yes * No    ?TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        U Yes 0 No   C TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes * No       TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                C Yes * No     0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories ,(OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          Ci Yes 0 No      TBD
Projects in International Watervays (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         C ) Yes * No   . TBD
*By supporting the proposed proje,.t, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obiain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and



5
ISDS
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
An Environmental Assessment Report (EA) was prepared during project preparation and it concluded that
only the Environmental Assessment (00 4.01) would be triggered. The are no major potential large
scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts expected to result from project implementation. The EA
summary, which includes the potential impacts, anticipated generic mitigation measures, the training and
capacity building program and the environmental monitoring plan is annexed to the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD).
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None.
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
None
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The limited potential impacts will be identified in individual sub-projects through a screening procedure
carried out during project implementation. The screening procedure involves analysis of each sub-project
prior to the financing approval and the environmental procedures are fully detailed in the EA report,
which in turn is integrated into the project Operations Manual. For sub-projects identified as having
several potential inputs, a specific sub-project EA will be carried out as part of the feasibility and
technical assessments. Even when a specific sub-project EA is not required, a rapid EA appraisal will be
carried out to ensure that there would be no unforeseen potential risks. The project will also be
supporting the development of an M&E plan, in which environmental indicators would be included.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
In addition to the beneficiary local communities in the five Govenorates included in the project, other
stakeholders are the Ministry of Agriculture, the Borrowing agency, Ministry of Environiment,
ODESYPANO, the implementing agency, CRDA, DGF, NGO and other agencies who will participate in
project implementation. The EMP was prepared in parallel with the social assessments and as such
includes the participation of a representative sample of farmers and local authorities. Consultations were
carried out in cooperation with the Tunisian Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) and the results of
the draft EA report presented at project preparation workshop which was attended by representatives
from various Tunisian Ministries in February 2002.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. -No safeguard issues



6
ISDS
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



7
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessinent/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 4/18/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             4/25/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              4/25/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Developmenit Plan/Framework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Allan Rotman
Project Safeguards Specialists 2.:  Arbi Ben-Achour
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                     05/31/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Petros Aklilu                               06/03/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK      SrrE MAP S_ - ; 5HOWCASE     F



