Report No. PID10509
Project Name             TUNISIA-Northwest Mountainous and (@)
Forestry Areas Development Project
Region                   Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (40%); Forestry
(20%); Agricultural extension and
research (20%); Crops (15%); Other
services (5%)
Project ID               P072317
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
Implementing Agency     MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT &
HYDRAULIC RESOURCES
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, through ODESYPANO
Address: 30, rue Alain Savary, 1002
Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Abdallah Mallek,
Director General, DGFIO
Mr. Ahmed El Achek, President Director
General of ODESYPANO
Tel: 216 71 842 687
Fax: 216 71 784 447
Email: 216 78 450 500 216 78 454 718
Dgle.odesypano@ati.tn
MinistOre de la Cooperation
Internationale et de l'Investissement
Exterieur
Address: 98, Avenue Mohamed V, 1002
Tunis-BelvedOre
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb,
Director General
Tel: 216 71 798 522
Fax: 216 71 769 845
Email: Multilaterale@mci.gov.tn
Date PID Prepared        August 16, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date       October 31, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Several sector issues are identifiable
Low agricultural productivity, over-exploitation of the natural resources
and rural poverty. There are strong linkages between low agricultural
productivity, the over-exploitation of natural resources and rural poverty
in the northwest region. The problem is compounded by the large rural
population with a significant number of the young and landless. It was
estimated in 1993 that the northwest region alone was home to at least 15



percent of the country's population and that 25 percent of these people
live below the national poverty threshold. Agricultural activities
represent only 60 percent of the estimated available time of the working
force, suggesting high unemployment. As a result, around 15-20t of the
male population leaves the region at least once a year in search of
employment. Poor soils, high rates of erosion, soil degradation, low
adoption of improved techniques and high land fragmentation result in low
agricultural productivity which increases the dependence on the natural
resources for revenue generation.
The deteriorating environment. The region is highly vulnerable to soil
erosion and degradation, mainly because of its steep slopes, high winter
rainfall and also, of course, the strong population/animal pressure.
Protecting and improving the management of the environment are very
important since the region is home to watersheds affecting over 80 percent
of the country's water resources and more than half the national forests.
These forests are essentially for protective purposes and increasingly
subject to deforestation by populations and grazing by animals. This
situation is unlikely to improve unless alternative sources of incomes are
identified and promoted. A related issue is improving the access of the
populations living on the edges of the forests to the forest resources.
Social development and sustainability of investments. The implementation
of past rural development projects has shown the importance of local
community involvement for ensuring the sustainability of the investments.
To improve the participation of these communities and their ownership of
the investments, ensuring first that their priorities are well taken into
account, investments in institutional capacity building must be given
priority, starting with adequate training and exposure to more advanced
environments/populations.
Limitations of the public support services. The public support services
in the northwest region (mainly agricultural extension and research, but
also road construction/maintenance, health and education) are under-funded
and often suffer from a shortage of qualified/dedicated staff. The
Agricultural Support Services Project - ASSP (Ln. 7063-TUN) entails
efforts to improve the public services to farming families in commercial
areas. However, the families in marginal areas, particularly those in
remote locations with low literacy rates, remain largely under-serviced.
In these locations, ODESYPANO will continue to play an important role.
However, improving the effectiveness of the support services will require
much more collaboration/synergy between the governmental and
non-governmental organizations operating in the region.
Government strategy
The Government of Tunisia (GOT) lays out its strategy in five-year
Economic and Social Development Plans. The 9th Plan has just ended and
the 10th Plan became operational in 2002. In the latter, the Government
reaffirms the importance of sound natural resources management and of the
improvement in the socio-economic conditions and standards of living of
the populations (particularly rural) as a tool for sustainable economic
development. As such, the Government intends to continue implementing its
strategy of: (i) strengthening the social agenda, particularly the
continuation of poverty reduction measures; and (ii) improving
environmental management, including the protection of scarce natural
resources.
-2-



To improve agricultural productivity, natural resources and environmental
management, the Government intends to: (i) promote the adaptation,
development and dissemination of appropriate improved technologies, (ii)
facilitate access to credit through the simplification of procedures for
the preparation of funding proposals, with a view to diversifying
agricultural production and revenue, (iii) improve access to better basic
rural infrastructure, and (iv) promote the development of off-farm
income-generating activities. To accelerate the adoption of improved
technologies, the Government recognizes that it will need to invest more
in agricultural support services (mainly extension and research) and in
institutional capacity building. The recently launched ASSP is an example
of efforts being made to increase the efficiency of the support services.
The Government also emphasizes illiteracy-reduction activities,
particularly targeting rural areas where illiteracy is highest, as part of
its efforts to invest in human capital development.
Although the problem of access to credit remains acute, the Government has
supported and continues to support: (i) regional programs, such as the
Programme de Developpement Regional, Programme de Developpement Rural
Integre, Fonds de Solidarite Nationale (FNS 2626) which have provided
financing for various activities; (ii) a number of special funds targeting
micro-projects/enterprises and numerous NGO which are dedicated to
socio-economic development through the provision of grants, small loans
and technical assistance to accompany financial resources; and (iii)
agricultural banks which assist rural communities through credit.
To increase the sustainability of development efforts, the Government has
been putting emphasis on the participation of local communities. The
Government has also been supporting efforts to formalize interested local
community groups to increase their access to micro-credit from banks.
As part of the Government's effort to increase cost-effectiveness in rural
development activities, it has specifically been requested that ODESYPANO
review its operational mandate to capitalize on its comparative advantages
and build working partnerships with other governmental and
non-governmental organizations in the region.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to improve the socio-economic
conditions of the populations in five governorates covering the
mountainous and forested areas of the northwest region, Beja, Bizerte,
Kef, Jendouba and Siliana, while ensuring sustainable management of the
natural resources.
More specifically, the project will aim to increase household incomes
through the improvement and diversification of the agricultural/pastoral
production systems as well as the promotion of off-farm income-generating
activities. The project would achieve its development objective by
supporting: (i) capacity building for the beneficiary communities; (ii)
limited institutional restructuring and capacity building for the
implementing agency, the Office de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du
Nord-Ouest (ODESYPANO) and its development partners to render them more
effective at assisting the communities in planning, implementing and
monitoring their own rural development programs/activities; (iii) the
identification and implementation of income-generating activities, on and
off-farm to increase revenues; (iv) the protection and improvement in the
- 3 -



management of natural resources; and (v) the improvement of the
beneficiaries' access to basic rural infrastructure.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank and Tunisia have, over the past two decades, built strong working
relationships and these have been particularly successful in the
agriculture sector. The Bank has made technical assistance, as well as
information on lessons learnt and best practices from the region and the
world as a whole, available to Tunisia. Tunisia has also benefited from
valuable co-financing and parallel financing leveraged by the Bank's
presence in the country. In the context of the proposed project, the Bank
would continue to provide these services. In addition, the Bank would
continue to support Tunisia's commitment to increasing the sustainability
of investments through its encouragement of local community participation
and provision of funds for the enhancement of the integrated participatory
approach.
4. Description
Project Components.    Project design emphasizes local community
participation and the activities selected are the result of consultations
with local communities. Because the project will apply an integrated
participatory approach, these activities could vary during project
implementation to reflect changes in community needs. Although it is not
explicitly mentioned in the component description, implementation of most
activities could involve other Government or non-governmental agencies.
Component 1: Institutional strengthening for ODESYPANO and partners (Total
cost $3.3 million)
The component would support capacity building activities aimed at
rendering ODESYPANO more efficient and cost-effective at planning,
implementing and monitoring project activities, with particular emphasis
on support to the decentralized implementation structure of ODESYPANO. In
addition, the component would support specific short-term well-defined
activities targeted to increase the capacity of ODESYPANO's partners,
including the beneficiary populations, to effectively participate in the
planning, implementation and monitoring/evaluation of project activities.
The component would finance three sub-components:
Adjustment/strengthening of ODESYPANO's organizational structure to enable
it to adapt to its changing role through the: (i) redefinition of roles
and responsibilities, including human resources planning and management;
(ii) the purchase of equipment and replacement vehicles and some building
rehabilitation; (iii) provision of national technical assistance for
updating operations/procedures manuals and helping with the formulation of
CDP in the first two years of project implementation;
Improvement of information systems to support project implementation and
monitoring with a decentralized structure, through: (i) the
rationalization and upgrading of existing information systems, including
strengthening the Geographic Information System (GIS), Management
Information System (MIS) and audit system: (ii) the setting up of an M&E
system consistent with ODESYPANO's revised role; and (iiii) purchase of
equipment and materials to support the improved information systems and
the migration of the existing information/data to the new systems;
Training program to improve the skills and performance of ODESYPANO staff
to effectively implement through financing the formulation and
implementation of a training and career development program for ODESYPANO,
covering topics such as, planning, monitoring and evaluation, use of
- 4 -



improved information systems, rural socio-economic development and
environmental matters; and
Capacity building for beneficiary communities and partners to enhance
their capacity for participating in the formulation and implementation of
developmental activities, through: (i) training activities, including
visits to progressive/model areas; (ii) funding of workshops for
information sharing, planning and consensus building, and (iii) provision
of small office equipment/materials. Also included in this sub-component
is the technical assistance for the environmental screening/evaluation
during the preparation of the CDP.
Component 2: Implementation of Pilot Operations (Total cost $3.9 million)
The component would support the implementation of pilot operations aimed
at: (i) encouraging beneficiary population participation in forestry
activities, (ii) reducing land fragmentation, and (iii) increasing on and
off-farm revenues through the promotion of micro-projects. The areas in
which these pilots would be implemented will be selected with beneficiary
participation. The component would have three key sub-components:
Pilot integrated development operations to support forest dwelling
communities to improve their access to forest resources and contribute to
the management of these resources, through funding for: (i) preparation of
contextually broader CDP to include forested areas; (ii) provision of
forestry extension services and small equipment to increase beneficiary
access to forest management activities on an estimated 15,000 ha; and
(iii) training and carrying out of trials/demonstrations on improved
forestry practices ;
Pilot land consolidation operations to facilitate/improve agricultural
farming on approximately 5,400 ha. The component would primarily finance:
(i) information campaigns for targeted communities; (ii) implementation of
land consolidation and titling operations; and (iii) construction of
small access tracks to the consolidated lands to enhance benefits and
Promotion of micro-projects/enterprises would finance: (i) niche analysis
to identify viable micro-projects and enterprises; (ii) training of
selected beneficiaries and ODESYPANO staff in, amongst other things,
project formulation, credit and market analysis; (iii) assistance to
beneficiaries for the preparation of technically and financially sound
proposals for presentation to financing institutions; and (iv) support to
marketing (participation in fairs, advice for processing/packaging,
information on quality standards).
Component 3: Agricultural and livestock development (Total cost $3.7
million)
This component would strengthen the extension services for better
dissemination of improved technical packages in crop production and
livestock husbandry. It would also provide funding for the improvement of
livestock breeds and for veterinary services. The three sub-components
are:
Agricultural extension to producers: (i) updating and broadening of the
technico-economic reference manuals on agricultural
technologies/practices; (ii) applied (short-duration, rapid impact,
demand-driven) research on production system diversification and
improvement; (iii) provision of training and demonstration equipment and
materials to the extension services; (iv) funding of small-scale
investments to solve technical problems of broad local interest (ex: seed
processing/conservation and small machinery); and (v) specialized
extension services for milk production/processing
- 5 -



Livestock development activities would consist of: (i) provision of
training for inseminators; (ii) provision of genitors (bulls, rams and
billy-goats); and (iii) funding of selective investments in animal health
and bee-keeping ; and
Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes would also include
community wells and springs when appropriate. The scale of the works
supported under the project would depend on beneficiary demand.
Component 4: Sustainable natural resource management (Total cost $17.2
million)
The component would support the improvement of environmental and natural
resources management, by concentrating on activities that the local
beneficiaries can adapt, manage and maintain. There would be three
sub-components:
Soil and water conservation consisting of civil works for : (i)
controlling gully erosion, mainly stone walls and plantations, and (ii)
protecting against floods, mainly small dikes and grass strips on private
and state-owned lands;
Improvement of pastures and rangelands to support: (i) the establishment
of pastures and rangelands in degraded areas; and (ii) put back in use
land areas that would have otherwise been under/non utilized, to reduce
the incidence of erosion and degradation; and
Agro-forestry development through the establishment of agro-forestry
plantations as a complementary measure for mechanical soil and water
conservation activities. Particular emphasis will be put on matching
appropriate species with the existing ecosystems, to improve the
environmental management and commercial values of the plantations.
Component 5: Improvement of basic rural infrastructure (Total cost $16.7
million)
This component would support the rehabilitation and/or construction of
basic rural infrastructure to improve beneficiary community access to
markets and social services in remotely located areas. The component would
have two sub-components:
Rehabilitation and construction of rural roads. The estimated quantities
of civil works are based on estimates of the likely requests from the
targeted communities and on assumptions of cost-sharing with various other
implementing agencies.
Improved access to potable water through the construction and/or
rehabilitation of wells, water cisterns and potable water connections.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $6.85
IBRD $34.00
IDA
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $4.01
Total Project Cost $44.86
6. Implementation
Project Coordination. Overall project coordination would be the
responsibility of an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
General-Directorate for Finance, Investment and Professional Organizations
(DGFIO) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The MOA is well staffed,
- 6 -



technically sound and is supported by several research and training
institutes. Project coordination will also be ensured by the
already-existing Enterprise (advisory) Committee of ODESYPANO and a Unit
for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships (UPPAP)
to be created.
Project Implementation. Implementation would be the responsibility of the
MOA through the central and regional directorates of ODESYPANO, the
Regional and Local Councils, the village-based development committees and
the various partner implementing agencies (including the CRDAs, DGF, OEP,
AVFA, AFA and NGO). ODESYPANO has a decentralized structure with
headquarters in Beja and regional offices in the five governorates. The
Project Coordination Unit would be responsible for monitoring the day-to
day implementation of the project as well as the development of the
partnerships promoted. It could also offer assistance to the regional
offices and its partners on request.
An important design feature to promote efficient implementation in
ODESYPANO's changing environment is the creation of UPPAP whose key
mandate will be, as the name suggests, to promote the Integrated
Participatory Approach and explore partnership potentials with other
agencies. In addition, the Unit would be responsible for developing,
fine-tuning and testing API methods and experimental tools adapted to
ODESYPANO's intervention zones. The programming/preparation of the
day-to-day activities, as well as the M&E of the CDP and associated
contract programs, would be the primary responsibility of the regional
offices. In addition, the regional offices would also be involved in
coordinating the preparation of the joint work program with the various
agencies, coordinate the activities of the multi-disciplinary specialists
and the animators-advisers.
Implementation through partnerships.    ODESYPANO is expected to
collaborate with various agencies in three principal ways: (i) ODESYPANO
transfers the implementation and maintenance responsibilities, including
the cost outlay of certain activities to agencies having a higher
comparative advantage; (ii) sub-contracting implementation of certain
activities, while maintaining the budget responsibilities; and (iii)
implementing through conventions of collaboration. In all cases, planning
would be carried out jointly. In the case of the activities for which
ODESYPANO would retain the budget responsibility, ODESYPANO would also be
responsible for the procurement, audit, overall monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) and maintenance operations until they are transferred to another
agency or beneficiary populations. The protocols established for the
various partnerships will specifically detail how M&E of the activity in
question would be carried out.
Local communities. The local communities would participate through the
informal CD or formal socio-professional organizations (mainly GDA and
GFIC). The CDP remains the main framework in which their demands are
expressed and subsequently implemented through the yearly
contract-programs (CP) signed by ODESYPANO and the partner implementing
agencies. The local communities would be expected to contribute to the
financing of the field realizations both financially and in kind, on a
scale to be agreed between the population and ODESYPANO.
-7 -



Monitoring, evaluation arrangements, and mid-term review. The PCU will
coordinate overall M&E, financial, physical, development and project
objectives based on the agreed indicators, as well as organizing the
mid-term review, with inputs from the regional offices, partners and
community groups participating. Progress on arising policy or
institutional issues would also be the responsibility of the PCU.
7. Sustainability
The project will contribute to sustainability of project investments
through the following actions:
(i) emphasizing local community involvement to increase the
relevance/suitability of the investments and the communities' ownership.
Moreover, by using the CDD approach, the project would increase the
communities' capacity to participate in rural development activities and
increase their sense of ownership which should translate into improved
operation and maintenance of the investments and hence more
sustainability;
(ii) facilitating access of local communities to sources of financing to
enhance both on and off-farm activities in order to increase household
revenues. Special efforts will be made to integrate women, the young and
the landless to participate in project activities. Women's participation
is particularly important given their status as a reliable workforce, in a
region where the males often migrate (even if only on a temporary basis)
to urban areas or abroad in search of employment opportunities;
(iii) facilitating the dissemination and adoption of improved agricultural
technical solutions that are compatible with environmental and natural
resources management, and result in higher revenues; and
(iv) supporting the disengagement of ODESYPANO, through its use of a
phased community development approach that allows for capacity building of
the beneficiaries and partner agencies to take over development
activities. Through its participation with agencies that have a permanent
presence in the region, the project would contribute to ensuring stable
support services in the long-term, adequate capacity building and the
development of participating local communities. It is expected that these
partnerships should, in the long run, result in savings of operation costs
for all participating agencies, thereby increasing implementation
efficiency while permitting the allocation of needed resources to
maintenance activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of the project reflects numerous lessons learnt in order to
maximize benefits to the beneficiaries and improve the likelihood of
attaining the set objectives. These lessons have been derived from the
implementation of the previous Bank-assisted projects and from similar
projects in Tunisia implemented by the Bank or other donors. The key
lessons are discussed below:
Northwest Development Projects. Both the first (Ln. 1997-TUN) and the
second (Ln 3691-TUN) Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Projects were
rated "satisfactory" for their achievement of the development objectives.
The first project significantly improved the beneficiaries' access to
basic social services and the rural infrastructure, but its overall impact
on the beneficiaries"capacity to participate effectively in rural
development activity planning and implementation was limited. The second
Bank-assisted project was designed to improve on this shortcoming by
- 8 -



including local community participation. Key lessons drawn from these
projects are that: (i) to increase the impact of the participatory
approach, local community, civil society and other stakeholder input must
be directly involved from the early design stages of the project; (ii)
beneficiary ownership is highest when activities are demand-driven; (iii)
people are generally more concerned with investments that result in
immediate benefits than with improving environmental and natural resources
management, and as such, these investments must be integrated into an
overall "package"; (iv) development and adoption of an integrated
participatory approach must be accompanied by adequate capacity building
activities, particularly training, to ensure that users and beneficiaries
understand their respective roles and responsibilities in achieving the
desired goals; (v) women extension agents are necessary to ensure women's
participation in projects; (vi) it is extremely difficult to reach the
young and the landless, this section of the population must be carefully
targeted; (vii) small private enterprises can carry out project activities
and deliver work of a high quality at lower costs, provided they are given
proper guidance and support; (viii) to promote land consolidation it is
important to provide incentives such as land titling. Although the land
consolidation activity was entirely demand-driven, the provision of titles
on consolidated lands was a major incentive as it offered security on the
newly consolidated lands; (ix) in the case of rural roads, it is very
important that there is a clear indication of the agency/ies that would be
responsible for maintenance after project completion; (x) to improve
access by local communities to rural credit it is important that the legal
framework exists or is in place prior to project implementation.
Forestry Development Projects (LN. 2870-TUN and LN. 3601-TUN). As with
the northwest projects, both Bank-assisted Forestry Development Projects
were rated "satisfactory" for their achievement of development objectives.
The first project resulted in substantial increases of forested areas, but
again, like the northwest project, it did not include local community
participation which reduced its impact on the socio-economic development
of the beneficiaries. To achieve sustainable management and the
development of the forest resources, local community participation was
included in the Second Forestry Development Project. Key lessons drawn
from the project are that: (i) decentralization of project management
functions can lead to more efficient project implementation; (ii)
including the participation of numerous small private enterprises, with
adequate guidance and support from the implementing agency, can
significantly reduce costs without compromising the quality of the work;
(iii) important legislative changes should be made within the framework of
broader policy adjustments rather than on an ad hoc basis - for example,
requesting an exemption for the implementation of an activity without
seeking permanent changes may actually impede long-term sustainability;
(iv) where the utilization of a participatory methodology is new for the
implementing agency and the communities involved, a phased approach should
be used to allow "learning by doing", and the capacity building measures
should include techniques for knowledge-sharing, consensus-building, and
conflict-resolution mechanisms; and (v) technical assistance from an
external agency should be considered when designing a participatory
methodology, to compliment in-house capacity, but the TA must be
sufficiently present in the field to ensure the practicality of the
proposed methodology.
Agriculture Sector Investment Loan (LN. 3661-TUN). This project was
satisfactorily completed, and several key lessons derived from its
-9-



implementation have been incorporated in this project: (i) when several
agencies are involved in project implementation, there is need for a high
degree of coordination to ensure effective planning, implementation and
M&E; and (ii) the lack of a consultative process with the beneficiaries,
when selecting investment activities, can result in inappropriate
technical choices and inflated benefit estimates.
Natural Resources Management Project (LN. 4162-TUN). The project, is still
ongoing and it is in a satisfactory status. Key lessons applied relate to
the inclusion of local communities in sustainable natural resources
management. Three key lessons are of direct relevance to the proposed
project are: (i) to use the participatory approach effectively requires
adequate staffing capacity in the implementing agency; (ii) inducing
participation can be a long-term process requiring intensive consultations
and negotiations with the local communities from the early design stages;
and (iii) to benefit women beneficiaries requires that "their" activities
are well integrated into the overall project activities.
Other lessons applied: (i) It is important to have good project
information and management tools, particularly adequate management and
geographic information systems to assist the Project Implementing Unit in
planning, monitoring and evaluating the project; (ii) the implementing
agency must be encouraged to "self-evaluate" systematically as the results
often serve as an incentive to improve; (iii) the experience from projects
elsewhere has shown that by establishing partnerships, a project is able
to enlarge its coverage of the local communities as well as improve
implementation coherence between different agencies and implementation
cost effectiveness; (iv) any research carried out must be based on
surveyed farmer needs and priorities; and (v) the dissemination of
improved technical packages can be enhanced when farmers are involved in
the selection of demonstration plots, and better still when these plots
are on farmer's lands.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The components to be included in the proposed project closely complement
those that were implemented in the NWDP, in which no major environmental
issues were found, and the Environmental Management Plan prepared has
strongly shown that this would be the case. However, possible
environmental issues could stem from activities such as the construction
of hill dams and road building. These issues would be mitigated for based
on the recommendations made in the Environmental Management Plan.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 1872
Fax:   (202) 477 1609
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 10 -



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 20, 2002.



