Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7151 
–
TUN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
OFFICE DU DEVELOPPEMENT SYLVO-PASTORAL DU NORD-OUEST 
 
Dated December 23, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7151 
–
TUN 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OFFICE DU 
DEVELOPPEMENT SYLVO-PASTORAL DU NORD-OUEST (ODESYPANO). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of thirty four million seven hundred thousand Euros 
(EUR34,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that ODESYPANO agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS  ODESYPANO, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CRDA” means a Regional Agricultural Development Commission 
(Commissariat
Régional
au
Développement
Agricole
)
established and operating pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Law No. 89-44 dated March 8, 1989 and related implementation 
decrees; 
 
(b) 
“DGF” means the Directorate General of Forests (Direction
Générale des
Forêts
)
established and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 
1987, as amended by the Borrower’s Decree No. 90-670 dated April 25, 1990 and Decree 
No. 2001-419 dated February 13, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
“DGFIOP” means the General Directorate of Finance, Investments and 
Professional Organizations (Direction
Générale
du
Financement,
des
Investissements
et 
des
Organismes
Professionels
)
within the MOAEHR (as this term is hereinafter defined), 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 1987, 
Page  3
-
2
-
as amended by the Borrower’s Decree No. 90-670 dated April 25, 1990 and Decree 
No. 2001-419 dated February 13, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(d) 
“DREH” means the Regional Directorate for Supplies and Housing 
(Direction
Régionale
de
l’Equipement
et
de
l’Habitat
)
within MOAEHR (as this term is 
hereinafter defined); 
 
(e) 
“Enterprise Committee” means the enterprise committee within 
ODESYPANO referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, chaired by 
ODESYPANO’s Director General and comprising representatives of the Borrower’s 
ministry of finance, ministry of economic development and MOAEHR (as this term is 
hereinafter defined), a representative of the Tunisian Union of Agriculture and Fisheries 
and a representative for each governorate covered by the Project Area, such committee to 
monitor ODESYPANO’s activities and issue recommendations thereon; 
 
(f) 
“GDA” means a formal community-based socio-professional 
organization (groupement
de
développement
agricole)
;
(g) 
“GFIC” means a formal community forestry-based group having a 
collective interest (groupement
forestier
d’intérêt
collectif
); 
 
(h) 
“MOAEHR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, 
Environment and Hydraulic Resources (Ministère
de
l’Agriculture,
de
l’Environnement 
et
des
Ressources
Hydrauliques
), established and operating under the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 87-799 dated May 21, 1987, as amended by the Borrower’s Decree No. 88-111 dated 
June 9, 1988, Decree No. 2001-419 dated February 13, 2001, and Decree No. 2002-2011 
dated September 5, 2002, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
 
(i) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization; 
 
(j) 
“OEP” means Office for Livestock and Pasture (Office
de
l’Elevage
et
des
Paturages
);  
 
(k) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit to be maintained by 
ODESYPANO in accordance with paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
 
(l) 
“Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships” 
means the unit to be established and maintained by ODESYPANO in accordance with 
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ODESYPANO declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, economic, management, technical, environmental, 
agricultural, land conservation and consolidation, forestry and water conservation 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and ODESYPANO shall otherwise agree, ODESYPANO shall: 
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the provisions of the Procedure Manual and the 
Environmental Assessment; and (ii) ensure that the carrying out of the Project shall not 
involve the involuntary resettlement of local population. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) ODESYPANO shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ODESYPANO shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after  the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and ODESYPANO, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project;  
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ODESYPANO on said plan; and 
 
(iii) 
thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.04. (a) ODESYPANO shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
ODESYPANO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by ODESYPANO of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of ODESYPANO 
 
Section 3.01. ODESYPANO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, economic, management, 
technical, environmental, agricultural, land conservation and consolidation, forestry and 
water conservation practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. ODESYPANO shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, economic, management, technical, environmental, 
agricultural, land conservation and consolidation, forestry and water conservation 
practices. 
 
Section 3.03. ODESYPANO shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, ODESYPANO shall: (a) not later than June 30, 2004, submit to the Bank 
for its review and comments, a monitoring and evaluation study, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
implementation of the Project; and (b) thereafter, submit to the Bank a plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, based on the study referred to in the preceding sub-
paragraph (a) and taki
ng
into account the Bank’s recommendations thereon, setting forth 
the arrangements required to ensure ODESYPANO’s disengagement from areas of 
intervention for which adequate capacity of local communities, based on an effective 
participatory approach, is available. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a)  ODESYPANO shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) ODESYPANO 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors,  of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section
 
4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, ODESYPANO shall prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual 
Financial Monitoring Reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
each of which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  7
-
6
-
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
ODESYPANO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify 
ODESYPANO thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For ODESYPANO: 
 
Route de Tunis 
9000 Béja 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Telex: 
 
      Facsimile: 
 
80213 
OSPNO 
TU 
    216-78-454-
718 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ODESYPANO 
may be taken or executed by its President Director General or such other person or 
persons as its President Director General shall designate in writing, and ODESYPANO 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Jean-Louis 
Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
 
Middle-East and North 
Africa 
 
OFFICE DU DEVELOPPEMENT SYLVO-
PASTORAL DU NORD-OUEST 
 
By 
/s/ Hatem Atallah 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$400,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 (a) of the Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 
through 6 of Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.  
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than US$2,000,000 equivalent per contract 
up to an aggregate amount of US$14,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph (c) below. 
 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per contract up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$800,000 may be procured under contracts 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and paragraph (c) below. 
 
(c) 
Contracts of goods and works procured under the National Competitive 
Bidding procedure shall comply with the following:  
 
(i) 
any prospective bidder from a country eligible under the 
Guidelines who proposes to provide goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, any such country shall be eligible to bid 
for such contracts;  
 
(ii) 
tenders shall be advertised with no less that thirty (30) days for 
bid preparation;  
 
 
(iii) 
government-owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they 
are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not selected or hired by the supervising 
or reporting authority, and shall be subject to the same bid and 
performance security requirements as other bidders;  
 
(iv) 
bidders shall be allowed to deliver their bid by hand or by mail; 
 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public; that is, bidders or their 
representatives shall be allowed to be present at the place where 
bids are to be opened. The time for the bid opening shall be the 
same as for the deadline for receipt of bids or promptly 
thereafter; and shall be announced, together with the place for 
bid opening, in the invitation to bid; 
 
(vi) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed to submit two envelopes 
provided the two envelopes are opened at the same time; 
 
(vii) 
bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria 
disclosed in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms, 
and no provision for preferential treatment for national 
companies shall be applied; and 
 
(viii) 
the contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the 
lowest evaluated responsive bid, and  no negotiation shall take 
place. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost 
thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and works under Part B.2 of the Project and costing US$25,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Force 
Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing US$1,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$23,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$500,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$400,000 or more; and the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$30,000 or more per contract but less than the equivalent of US$400,000 
each, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines,  and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
Services estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to  prior approval of the Bank.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000, the terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. Project 
Coordination
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee with membership 
including, inter
alia
,
the Director of DGFIOP as Chairperson and representatives of the 
following ministries of the Borrower, respectively: Development and International 
Cooperation, Finance and MOAEHR. To this end, the Steering Committee shall be 
assisted by the Enterprise Committee and the Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory 
Approach and Partnerships. Day-to-day coordination of Project activities shall be carried 
out by PCU.  
 
2. Project 
Implementation
(a) 
MOAEHR, through ODESYPANO and ODESYPANO’s central and 
regional directorates, shall have the overall responsibility for Project implementation. 
ODESYPANO shall be responsible for day-to-day implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project as well as the development of Partnership Arrangements. In 
order to ensure proper management of the Project, ODESYPANO shall maintain PCU, 
throughout the life of the Project, with professional staffing in adequate number, whose 
qualifications and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(b) 
ODESYPANO shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Procedure Manual and the Environmental Assessment and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, ODESYPANO shall not amend or waive any provision of the Procedure 
Manual or the Environmental Assessment if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(c) 
ODESYPANO shall no later than June 30, 2003, establish and thereafter 
maintain the Unit for the Promotion of the Participatory Approach and Partnerships in a 
form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank. Said Unit’s mandate shall 
be to, inter
alia
:
(i) develop, test and promote integrated participatory approach, including 
methods and experimental tools adapted to ODESYPANO’s zones of intervention; and 
(ii) put in place Partnership Arrangements with Implementing Agencies.  
 
(d) 
At the regional level, ODESYPANO’s regional directorates shall be 
responsible for the programming, preparation and coordination of activities, the 
monitoring and evaluation of CDPs and related contract-programs, and the preparation 
and coordination of joint work programs among Implementing Agencies. 
 
3. 
Partnerships with Implementing Agencies
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(a) 
ODESYPANO shall enter into Partnerships Arrangements with 
Implementing Agencies, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
planning and implementation of selected Project activities, including: (i) framework 
conventions (“convention-cadre
”) describing the partnership process between 
ODESYPANO and the respective Implementing Agency; and (ii) contract-programs 
detailing the Sub-projects, monitoring criteria and personnel required for the carrying out 
of said Sub-projects.   
 
(b) 
Partnership Arrangements shall be based on either of the following 
principles: (i) ODESYPANO shall transfer the implementation and maintenance 
responsibilities to Implementing Agencies having a higher comparative advantage in their 
respective area of expertise and intervention; or (ii) ODESYPANO shall sub-contract the 
implementation of selected Sub-projects while retaining the responsibility for the budget, 
procurement, audit, monitoring and evaluation and maintenance related to said Sub-
projects. ODESYPANO shall cause the Implementing Agencies to adhere to the 
procedures designed for the Project. 
 
(c) 
Collaboration among ODESYPANO, Implementing Agencies and local 
communities shall be integrated in CDPs, each in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, jointly prepared by the Implementing Agencies. CDPs  shall be designed for a 
period of about five (5) years, and shall determine priority Sub-projects demanded by 
local communities, the respective contribution and technical assistance to be provided by 
the relevant Implementing Agencies and the environmental procedures and indicators 
applying to said Sub-projects pursuant to the Environmental Assessment. Based on 
CDPs, ODESYPANO shall enter into contract-programs with local communities, 
represented by their respective local Development Committees (Comités
de
Développement
)
or
socio-professional organization (inter
alia
,
GDA and GFIC), for the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of said CDPs. Local communities shall 
contribute to the financing of Sub-projects both financially and in kind, in an amount to 
be agreed between said communities and ODESYPANO. 
 
4. 
All Sub-projects shall be selected and carried out in accordance with the criteria 
and provisions set forth in the Procedure Manual and the Environmental Assessment. No 
Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless 
ODESYPANO is satisfied that the Sub-project shall: (a) be financially and technically 
viable; (b) comply with the standards set forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower 
relating to environmental protection, as well as with the Environmental Assessment and 
the Bank’s applicable guidelines; and (c) not involve the involuntary resettlement of local 
population.  
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
5. Mid-Term 
Review
ODESYPANO shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2005, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
