Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7151 
–
TUN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Northwest Mountainous and Forestry Areas Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 23, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7151 
–
TUN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Office du Développement Sylvo-
Pastoral du Nord-Ouest (ODESYPANO) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to ODESYPANO, as set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ODESYPANO (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AFA” means agricultural land agency (agence
foncière
agricole
); 
 
(b) 
“Basic Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law No. 81-17 dated 
March 9, 1981, pursuant to which ODESYPANO has been established and operates as an 
industrial and commercial public institution, and the Borrower’s Decree No. 81-975 
dated July 15, 1981, setting forth the administrative and financial organization of 
ODESYPANO, as both may be amended from time to time; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
“Central Bank of Tunisia” means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque 
Centrale
de
Tunisie
)
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 
dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(d) 
“CDP” means the community development plan referred to in paragraph 
3
(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental 
assessment, dated April 2002, whose substance is satisfactory to the Bank, which 
describes, inter
alia
:
(i) the identification and assessment processes of potential 
environmental impact of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of 
alternative measures; and (iii) the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, institutional and 
management measures required for the implementation of the Project with a view to 
ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said 
measures and to eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such impacts, or 
reducing them to acceptable levels; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
January 1 and ending on December 31; 
 
(j) 
“Implementing Agency” means a governmental agency or a non-
governmental organization taking part in the implementation of Sub-projects (as this term 
is hereinafter defined) on the basis of a Partnership Arrangement (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank;  
 
(k) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 5 
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Partnership Arrangement” means the partnership arrangement referred 
to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Procedure Manual” means the Borrower’s Procedure Manual, dated 
March 2002, whose substance is satisfactory to the Bank, which sets out the principles 
and procedures governing the implementation of the Project, which, inter
alia
:
(i) defines 
the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of 
the Project; (ii) sets forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the 
Page  5
-
3
-
Project; (iii) identifies the criteria for the selection of Project activities and the procedures 
to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; (iv) details the financial management procedures for the Project, 
including, inter
alia
,
the auditing, accounting and financial reporting arrangements for the 
Project; and (v) set outs the details of the process framework setting forth the principles 
governing the participation of the local communities; as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
ODESYPANO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Project Area” means the governorates of Béja, Bizerte, Kef, Jendouba 
and Siliana;  
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(q) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be maintained by the 
Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and 
 
(r) 
“Sub-project” means any specific investment, acceptable to the Bank, to 
be made by Implementing Agencies in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to ODESYPANO. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan  
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty four 
million seven hundred thousand Euros (EUR 34,700,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Page  6
-
4
-
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Euros a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Tunisia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall 
cause ODESYPANO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of ODESYPANO therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable ODESYPANO to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause 
ODESYPANO to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, the Procedure Manual and the 
Environmental Assessment. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall promptly make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
ODESYPANO through budgetary allocations. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ODESYPANO 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
Page  9
-
7
-
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
ODESYPANO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ODESYPANO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Basic Legislation or any other law, decree or resolution of the 
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the organization, powers, financial condition or operations 
of ODESYPANO or its ability of to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ODESYPANO or for the suspension 
of ODESYPANO’s operations. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall have established the Steering 
Committee. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized by ODESYPANO, and is legally binding upon ODESYPANO in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Development and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui  
 
1000
Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
5117 
   216-71-351-279 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By 
/s/ Hatem Atallah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Jean-Louis 
Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  13
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
Expressed in Euros
)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
26,500,000 
 80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,500,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100
%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items 
 
procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services  
3,500,000 
87% of local expen- 
and training 
 
 
ditures for services 
of consultants 
domiciled within 
the territory of the 
Borrower and 79% 
of foreign 
expenditures for 
services of other 
consultants’ 
services and 
training 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
347,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  14
-
12 -
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
Expressed in Euros
)
to be Financed
(5) Unallocated 
2,853,000 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps 
Section 2.09(c) of 
 
and Interest Rate 
this Agreement 
 
_________
TOTAL 34,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts not 
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding 
US$400,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; (d) services under contracts not exceeding 
US$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; and (e) training under contracts not 
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to increase household incomes and enhance the 
socio-economic conditions of the population in the Project Area, while ensuring 
sustainable management of the natural resources, through the improvement and 
diversification of the agricultural and pastoral production systems and the promotion of 
off-farm income-generating activities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening of ODESYPANO, Project Implementing Agencies 
and Beneficiary Population
Strengthening the institutional capacity of ODESYPANO, the Project 
Implementing Agencies and the beneficiary population in planning, implementing and 
monitoring Project activities, by: 
 
1.  
reinforcing ODESYPANO’s organizational structure through: (a) the provision 
of technical assistance to redefine ODESYPANO’s roles and responsibilities and human 
resources planning and management capacities; (b) the purchase of equipment and 
vehicles, and the carrying out of building rehabilitation works; and (c) the provision of 
technical assistance to formulate a CDP for the first two (2) years of Project 
implementation, and update ODESYPANO’s procedures manuals; 
 
2. 
improving ODESYPANO’s information systems to support ODESYPANO’s 
decentralized structure and monitoring and evaluation role, through the purchase of 
equipment and materials and the provision of technical assistance;  
 
3. 
providing technical assistance and carrying out training activities to strengthen 
the skills and career development program of ODESYPANO’s staff in the fields of 
planning, monitoring and evaluation, use of information systems, socio-economic 
development of rural populations and environment; and 
 
4. 
carrying out a program of targeted activities aimed at increasing the capacity of 
the Project Implementing Agencies and beneficiary population in participating in the 
formulation and implementation of Project activities through: (a) the carrying out of 
training activities and organization of workshops with a view to promoting information 
dissemination, planning, coordination and consensus-building among Project 
Implementing Agencies; (b) the purchase of small office equipment and materials; and 
(c) the provision of technical assistance to carry out the environmental screening and 
evaluation during the preparation of CDPs. 
Page  16
-
14 -
Part B
:
Implementation of Pilot Operations
Implementation of a pilot program of Sub-projects aiming at: (a) encouraging the 
participation of forestry and peri-forestry beneficiaries in forestry management and 
harvesting activities; (b) reducing land fragmentation; and (c) increasing on-farm and off-
farm revenues, through: 
 
1.  
carrying out of pilot integrated development operations to support forest dwelling 
communities with a view to improving their access to, and management of forest 
resources, through: (a) the provision of technical assistance to prepare CDPs; (b) the 
provision of forestry extension services and purchase of small equipment to increase 
beneficiary access to forest management activities; and (c) the provision of training and 
carrying out of trial/demonstration activities relating to improved forestry practices; 
 
2.  
developing pilot land consolidation and titling operations to improve agricultural 
farming, through: (a) the provision of technical assistance to AFA and purchase of 
equipment to: (i) conduct information campaigns for targeted communities; and 
(ii) implement land consolidation and titling operations; and (b) the construction of small 
access tracks to the consolidated lands; and 
 
3.  
supporting micro-projects and enterprises, through the provision of technical 
assistance for: (a) carrying out market analysis and identifying viable micro-projects; 
(b) training selected beneficiaries and ODESYPANO staff in, inter
alia
,
project 
formulation, credit and market analysis; (c) assisting beneficiaries in preparing and 
presenting technically and financially sound micro-projects proposals to financial 
institutions; and (d) supporting the development of viable markets, including the 
promotion of beneficiary participation in fairs, advising in processing/packaging and 
provision of information on quality standards. 
 
Part C
:
Agricultural and Livestock Development
Implementation of a program of Sub-projects supporting enhanced extension 
services with a view to disseminating improved technical packages in crop production 
and livestock husbandry, including veterinary services, through: 
 
1.  
agricultural extension to producers, including: (a) the provision of technical 
assistance in: (i) updating reference manuals on available agricultural technologies and 
practices; and (ii) conducting applied research on the diversification and improvement of 
agricultural production systems; (b) the provision of training and demonstration 
equipment and materials to the extension services; (c) technical support to small-scale 
local investors to solve agricultural and pastoral development-related technical problems; 
and (d) the provision of specialized extension services relating to milk production and 
processing; 
Page  17
-
15 -
2. 
promoting livestock development, including: (a) the provision of training for 
inseminators; (b) the provision of bulls, rams and billy-goats; and (c) the support to 
selected Sub-projects in animal-health and bee-keeping activities; and  
 
3. 
carrying out of works to rehabilitate small-scale irrigation schemes, including 
community wells and water springs.  
 
Part D
:
Sustainable Natural Resource Management
Improving sustainable environmental and natural resource management by 
supporting Sub-projects to be managed and maintained by local beneficiaries, through: 
 
1. 
carrying out of construction works to promote soil and water conservation, 
including: (a) stonewalls and plantations to control gully erosion; and (b) small dikes and 
grass strips to enhance protection against floods on private and state-owned land; 
 
2. 
improving pasture and rangelands, including the establishment of pasture and 
rangelands in degraded areas and the promotion of the use of non-utilized and under-
utilized land through the establishment of pastoral species, to reduce the impact of 
erosion and degradation; and 
 
3.  
establishing agro-forestry plantations, with an emphasis on matching appropriate 
species with existing eco-systems, to improve the environmental management as well as 
the commercial value of said plantations.  
 
Part E
:
Improvement of Basic Rural Infrastructure
Implementation of a program of Sub-projects to construct and rehabilitate basic 
rural infrastructure in the Project Area, with a view to de-isolating remotely located 
beneficiary populations and improving their access to markets and basic social services, 
including: (a) construction and rehabilitation of rural roads; and (b) improvement of 
access to potable water resources, through the construction and rehabilitation of wells, 
water cisterns and potable water connections. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
 
Page  18
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
April 1, 2003 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2003 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2004 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2004 
0.00% 
April 1, 2005 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2005 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2006 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2006 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2007 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2007 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2008 
6.00% 
 
October 1, 2008 
5.00% 
 
April 1, 2009 
6.00% 
 
October 1, 2009 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2010 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2010 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2011 
6.00% 
 
October 1, 2011 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2012 
0.00% 
 
October 1, 2012 
0.00% 
 
April 1, 2013 
6.00% 
 
October 1, 2013 
5.00% 
 
April 1, 2014 
5.00% 
 
October 1, 2014 
4.00% 
 
April 1, 2015 
4.00% 
 
October 1, 2015 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2016 
5.00% 
 
October 1, 2016 
3.00% 
Page  19
-
17 -
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
April 1, 2017 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2017 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2018 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2018 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2019 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2019 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2020 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2020 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2021 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2021 
3.00% 
 
April 1, 2022 
3.00% 
 
October 1, 2022 
2.00% 
 
April 1, 2023 
2.00% 
 
October 1, 2023 
2.00% 
 
April 1, 2024 
2.00% 
 
October 1, 2024 
1.00% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  20
-
18 -
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  21
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of EUR 2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
EUR 1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of EUR 5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  22
-
20 -
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  23
-
21 -
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
