                           Document of the World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00003059



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-48210, IBRD-79600)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF BELARUS

                                     FOR A

                   POST-CHERNOBYL RECOVERY PROJECT



                                 March 31, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2014)

 Currency Unit = Belarusian Ruble (BYR)
          BYR9850.00 = US$1
          US$ 0.0001 = BYR 1

             FISCAL YEAR
         January 1 – December 31

 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
  ERR         Economic Rate of Return
  EED         Energy Efficiency Department
  EMP         Environmental Management Plan
  FMS         Financial Management Specialist
  FSU         Former Soviet Union
  GDP         Gross Domestic Product
  IAEA        International Atomic Energy Agency
  ICB         International Competitive Bidding
  MoE         Ministry of Energy
  M&E         Monitory and Evaluation
  NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
  PCRP        Post Chernobyl Recovery Project
  PMU         Project Management Unit
  SIRP        Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project
  TCM         Thousand Cubic Meters
  UNDP        United Nations Development Program



      Vice President: Laura Tuck
    Country Director: Qimiao Fan
     Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader: Elena Klochan
   ICR Team Leader: Pekka Salminen
                                         REPUBLIC OF BELARUS

                                     Post-Chernobyl Recovery Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Post-Chernobyl
Country:                Belarus                 Project Name:
                                                                          Recovery Project
                                                                          IBRD-48210,IBRD-
Project ID:             P095115                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          79600
ICR Date:               03/31/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BELARUS
Original Total
                        USD 50.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 80.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 80.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 RUE "BelInvestEnergoSberezhenie"
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/06/2005     Effectiveness:             08/11/2006        08/11/2006
Appraisal:            10/03/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/18/2006     Mid-term Review:           03/14/2009        03/14/2009
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                  85                  85
Oil and gas                                                          15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                        14                  14
Climate change                                                       14                  14
Natural disaster management                                          29                  29
Pollution management and environmental health                        29                  29
Rural services and infrastructure                                    14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                          Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                          Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                    Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Elena Klochan                       Maha J. Armaly
ICR Team Leader:           Pekka Kalevi Salminen
ICR Primary Author:        Maha J. Armaly


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to provide the population residing in the Chernobyl affected area with
energy efficient and reliable heat and hot water services in order to improve their living
environment.



                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                Estimated number of beneficiaries reached with improved energy efficient
Indicator 1 :
                services
                                           0.5-1.0 million
                                           (estimated
Value                                                           250,000
                                           population of
quantitative or 0                                               (direct        250,769
                                           communities
Qualitative)                                                    beneficiaries)
                                           included in the
                                           Project)
Date achieved 07/01/2006                   12/30/2010           12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
                Following the approval of the Additional Financing Loan on September 28,
(incl. %
                2010, results indicators were revised for better measurement and monitoring.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Estimated amount of heat energy saved annually [MWh/year]
Value
                                           102,000 Gcal;
quantitative or 0                                               158,000        248,736
                                           US$3,672,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2006                   12/30/2010           12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments        The previous indicator - Estimated volume and value of fuel saved - was
(incl. %        disaggregated into two indicators: Estimated amount of heat energy saved
achievement) annually and Estimated amount of electricity saved annually.
Indicator 3 : Estimated amount of electricity saved annually [MWh/year]
Value
                                           102,000 Gcal;
quantitative or 0                                               12,800         99,478
                                           US$3,672,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2006                   12/30/2010           12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments        The previous indicator - Estimated volume and value of fuel saved - was
(incl. %        disaggregated into two indicators: Estimated amount of heat energy saved
achievement) annually and Estimated amount of electricity saved annually.
Indicator 4 : Estimated reduction in pollutants [tCO2]
Value
quantitative or 0                          5,000 t CO2          41,350         121,147
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2006                   12/30/2010           12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Project end-target achieved and exceeded
achievement)




                                               iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of boiler houses renovated
Value
                                           40 (included heat
(quantitative     0                                          33              32
                                           substations)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006               12/30/2010         12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
                  One boiler house (Maiski, Mogilev Oblast) was dropped because renovation was
(incl. %
                  not economically justified.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of buildings rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                        300                365            443
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006               12/30/2010         12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
                  Results indicator was revised for Additional Financing Loan in September 28,
(incl. %
                  2010 (number of institutions was replaced with the number of buildings.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of buildings with window replacements.
Value
(quantitative     0                        0                  247            298
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006               12/30/2010         12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Results indicator was added for Additional Financing on September 28, 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of buildings with lighting system replacements.
Value
(quantitative     0                        0                  118            145
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006               12/30/2010         12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Results indicator was added for Additional Financing on September 28, 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of houses connected to gas
Value
(quantitative     0                        2,000              4,000          5,005
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006               12/30/2010         12/31/2013     11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Project end-target achieved and exceeded
achievement)




                                                 iv
Indicator 6 :     Length of street gas pipelines installed [km]
Value
(quantitative     0                          0                     200           219
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006                 12/30/2010            12/31/2013    11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Results indicator was added for Additional Financing on September 28, 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Direct project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0                                                250,000       250,769
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006                                     12/31/2013       11/01/2013
Comments          Direct project beneficiaries include users of public buildings in health, education
(incl. %          and social sectors (250,769) and households connected to natural gas for heating
achievement)      purposes (5,005) in Project area.
Indicator 8 :     Female beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0                                                              50 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2006                                                     11/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %          The estimated number of female beneficiaries is 50 percent.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     10/30/2006            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.13
  2     06/14/2007            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.13
  3     02/17/2008            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      6.27
  4     11/13/2008            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    10.72
  5     06/04/2009            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    19.96
  6     10/22/2009            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    23.01
  7     06/26/2010            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    36.75
  8     11/24/2010            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    42.09
  9     04/30/2011            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    49.27
 10     11/04/2011            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    50.74
 11     06/26/2012            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    56.05
 12     11/30/2012            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    67.71
 13     06/13/2013            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    75.69
 14     12/06/2013         Highly Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    79.26




                                                  v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

The objective of the Post Chernobyl Recovery Project (PCRP) is to provide the population residing
in the Chernobyl affected area with energy efficient and reliable heat and hot water services in order
to improve their living environment.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country Background
At independence in 1991, the standard of living in Belarus was amongst the highest in the Former
Soviet Union (FSU). After an estimated decline of about 40% of GDP during 1992-95, the economy
experienced an average growth of 6.6% annually between 1996 and 2004. The Belarussian
Government maintained a heavy control of the economy and continued reliance on established
linkages with ex-soviet states, particularly with Russia. Growth was broad based and driven by
favorable external environment, growing demand in traditional markets, and internal consumption
that was supported by administratively imposed increases in wages.

The Chernobyl Accident
The appraisal and approval of the Project occurred 20 years after the Chernobyl Nuclear Reactor
Accident of April 26, 1986. While the accident happened in the nuclear reactor in Ukraine, it
affected approximately 2.5 million (about 25%) of the Belarussian population and about 20% of the
area of Belarus. The Government of Belarus maintained substantial support, through subsidies,
compensation and treatment programs, to the population of Belarus affected by the accident. This
segment of the population endured the double burden of declining economic opportunities combined
with the impacts of the accident on health, the environment and overall fears and concerns of the
population inside and outside the affected areas. By the time of Project identification and
preparation, the levels and impacts of radioactive contamination in the environment were being
reduced, thanks to natural and physical remedial processes supported by Government and
international interventions. Nevertheless, the negative economic and social consequences of the
accident continued to impact the population and were delaying the transition to healthier economic
environments.

Energy Sector Background
The energy sector played an important role in Belarus’ economy at the time of Project preparation,
both as a consumer/importer and as a processor of energy products for exports. After years of lack
of appropriate maintenance and new investments due to economic hardships, the sector was due for
rehabilitation and renewal: (a) service infrastructure improvements were limited to basic operations
and maintenance at the time of economic austerity; (b) infrastructure was geared to large and
inefficient operations that needed to be retrofitted to respond to the rising energy market prices; and
(c) the economy was dependent on imported energy including for processing and resale. Overall,
service to the population was degraded. Often, minimum heat was provided and hot water services
were drastically reduced. Investments in old infrastructure facilities were curtailed further reducing
the quality and level of services. At the same time, tariffs were increasing consistently, but rarely
reached cost recovery levels. The Government’s program focused on energy efficiency measures to
reduce wasteful energy consumption, improve services, and limit the increasing burden of energy
expenditures on the population. The Government’s efforts in this area focused on retrofitting publicly
owned buildings (e.g. schools and hospitals) and rehabilitating trunk infrastructure.

                                                  1
Rationale for Bank Assistance
International assistance provided to Belarus following the Chernobyl accident focused on the
immediate and mid-term consequences of radiation, such as for remediation of contaminated land,
health care, radiation exposure monitoring, and other radiation related environmental concerns.
These measures were successful in mitigating the immediate physical impacts of the accident. After
20 years and at the time of project preparation, the Government and the international community had
realized the need to address the economic and social aspects of the accident. The objective was to
provide economic opportunities and to improve living environments, particularly in the rural areas.
The affected population continued to be concerned with the impact of radiation on their health and
wellbeing. Investors and consumers from outside the affected area were reluctant to undertake
economic activities in the region. The Bank was in a unique position to have had the requisite
experience in the sector and the region, and to have maintained trusted advisory and investment
relationships with the Government of Belarus, especially in the energy sector.

The Project fit well into the following higher level objectives outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) at the time (FY2002-2004) and the then ongoing CAS discussions (FY08-FY11): (a)
to improve the living standards of the Belarusian population by addressing social and environmental
risks that affect the weakest members of the population; and (b) to support the country in areas
involving Global Public Goods (environment).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project aims to provide the population residing in the Chernobyl affected area with energy
efficient and reliable heat and hot water services in order to improve their living environment.

Key Indicators:
    Number of schools, hospitals, other institutions renovated and estimated number of
      beneficiaries
    Number of boilers, substations and kilometers of pipes renovated/replaced
    Estimated amount of energy saved
    Estimated reductions in pollutants

      Number of towns connected to gas
      Number of households connected to gas, number of households connected to gas for heating
      Annual heating costs using gas vs. costs prior to connections
      Collection rates for newly connected gas consumers.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

In October 2010, the Bank responded to the Government’s request to provide additional financing of
US$30 million. The PDO was not revised.

Key indicators were revised to focus on:
(a) number of beneficiaries;
(b) estimated amount of heat and electricity saved annually; and
(c) reduction of CO2 emissions.
Target numbers were increased to account for the increased financing.


                                                 2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project targets users of schools, hospitals, orphanages and other social public buildings in the
Chernobyl affected area of Belarus – the Oblasts of Gomel, Mogilev, and Brest. The extension of
the gas pipeline and provision of gas connections benefit households that used inefficient and
unhealthy methods (wood stoves) that rely on wood for heating purposes.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component I: Energy Efficiency Improvements (appraisal cost estimate $48 million, revised cost
estimate US$72.4 million, actual cost US$79.3 million). This component includes investments to
upgrade or replace energy infrastructure in order to improve efficiencies, provide better services to
the population, ensure savings on fuel and other capital and operational costs, and reduce emissions.
Investments were to take place in about 25-30 sites in each of Gomel and Mogilev and Brest Oblasts
consisting mainly of social public institutions in the education, health and social protection areas to
ensure that the residents and users of these institutions receive adequate heat and hot water supply.
This component includes the following sub-components:

   a) Energy efficiency improvements in heat generation including modernization of communal
      boiler houses by replacing old and inefficient equipment and installing modern boilers or
      cogeneration equipment.
   b) Energy efficiency improvements in the heat distribution system including replacement of old
      pipelines with high heat and hot water losses, with insulated pipelines and modernization of
      building level heat substations with modem heat exchangers, regulation equipment and heat
      meters.
   c) Energy efficiency improvements in public buildings including replacement of windows,
      replacement of leaking roofs and improvement of thermal insulation, and replacement of
      inadequate lighting in schools, hospitals and other social institutions with modern energy
      efficient lighting systems.

Component II: Residential Gas Connections (appraisal cost estimate US$8.5 million, revised cost
estimate US$12.05 million, actual cost US$10.9 million). This component connects individual
houses that currently utilize wood in home heat stoves, to the gas pipeline in order to provide better
heating services to the population living in the contaminated areas. Households are provided with
necessary heating equipment (small gas boilers, gas cookers, gas meters and regulators at an
estimated cost of $800 per household). Under the Government’s program to supply gas in the
Chernobyl affected area, a survey is undertaken before starting the work to determine the needs of
the town and the households.

Component III: Project Implementation and Management Support (appraisal cost estimate US$5.0
million, revised cost estimate US$6.6 million, actual cost US$1.7 million). This component is
designed to ensure effective implementation of the project. Costs include the government
contribution for the design and supervision of the gas component and Project Management Unit
(PMU) costs, including staffing. The Bank financing will cover: (a) design and supervision of the
project investments and (b) implementation support to the PMU including public information and
support for fiduciary responsibilities and audit costs.


                                                  3
1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised. The scope and coverage of the investments were increased.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The project was restructured in June 2010 to reallocate funds among the categories in the Loan
Agreement in accordance with ongoing expenditures. Funds were allocated from the consultancy
category to the civil works category as it was agreed that contractors were responsible for the full
design of works. The closing date of the original loan was extended by 6 months from December
2010 to June 2011.

In October 2010, following a request by the Government, Bank management approved additional
financing of $30 million and increased the disbursement percentage to 100%. The closing date for
the additional financing was set for December 31, 2013.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified,
and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Project Preparation
The Bank participated with other international agencies in efforts to understand and develop
approaches to mitigate the negative impacts in the Post-Chernobyl Accident areas. The Bank was
represented in the International Chernobyl Forum, an initiative of the International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA), which included other international and national participants. The Belarus
Chernobyl Review prepared by the Bank (July 2002) provided recommendations to deal with the
economic and social consequences of the Chernobyl accident and was used as input into the project
concept to shift more attention from radiation mitigation and testing to economic and social
mitigation efforts.

The Project technical preparation relied on a Bank empirical study entitled “Investments to Improve
the Energy Efficiency of Existing Residential Buildings in Countries of the Former Soviet Union”
(1997). The study documents energy wastage in post-Soviet economies. It identifies technical
opportunities to improve energy efficiency in buildings and verifies the associated economic and
financial benefits for different types of intervention such as window replacement, roof repair and
insulation measures.

The Bank was involved in the energy sector in Belarus and undertook studies in 2006 (Belarus –
Addressing Challenges Facing the Energy Sector), which recognized the need to increase energy
efficiency in Belarus’ energy intensive economy. The Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project
(SIRP) was ongoing successfully during the preparation of the PCRP and was being implemented
country-wide (FY01-FY10 including additional financing). The PCRP utilized the same institutional
and implementing arrangements as for the SIRP, but investments of the PCRP focused on the
Chernobyl affected areas only. Due to the radiation concerns in the area, the Bank team worked
closely with the IAEA and the Chernobyl Impact Mitigation Committee of Belarus (Chernobyl
Committee) during Project preparation.



                                                       4
With Bank experience in other projects in Belarus, Government and implementing agency officials
were aware of requirements for project preparation and implementation. Technical solutions and
economic criteria and justifications - particularly for energy efficiency measures - were tested under
the SIRP. The PCRP paid additional attention to the social factors associated with a post disaster
situation, where understandings of long term unclear impacts, beliefs and concerns lingered and
affected daily lives. Implementation arrangements, including fiduciary requirements were in place
and utilized staff and experiences under the SIRP.

Soundness of Background Analysis
Project preparation was based on sound analysis of the social impacts of the Chernobyl Accident
prepared by international agencies including the IAEA, the UNDP and the World Bank. The
technical and economic analysis of the Project were based on known methodologies and empirical
studies (noted above), and were further refined to address the specific experiences in the post-soviet
economies which shared many technical similarities in the design of buildings and heating provision
where energy sources were undervalued. The solutions were tested and implemented in other
projects with similar technical conditions and the lessons learned (from SIRP) were incorporated into
the Project.

Assessment of Project Design
The objective of the Project is to improve energy efficiency and reliability in delivering heat and hot
water to improve living conditions. The beneficiaries were specifically identified to be the more
vulnerable residents of the Chernobyl Affected Area: residents of social institutions, as well as
households using wood stoves for heating.

The problems and their solutions that led to the design of the project were identified as follows:
   (a) Outdated and old equipment such as boiler houses have surpassed their useful lives, were
       inefficient, based on old technologies, and were often overdesigned. Heat distribution
       networks were old and insufficiently insulated to prevent extreme energy losses. Windows
       and doors were old and drafty, installed during the times of very low energy prices with little
       concern for efficiency.
   (b) Houses using wood stoves were exposed to unhealthy home environment, and in some cases,
       could be using radiation contaminated wood and disposing of contaminated ashes. House
       connections to the gas distribution network and gas meters and stoves were to be provided.

Project Organization: Project implementation and monitoring organizations were fully imbedded in
the Government’s structure, and additional arrangement outside the Government structure was not
required. The PMU is a unit of Belinvestenergosberezhenie, an agency of the Government involved
in the implementation of the Government’s energy efficiency program. The PMU reported directly
to the Energy Efficiency Department (EED) that oversees the implementation and monitors the
achievements of the energy efficiency program in Belarus. The PMU was fairly independent in its
daily operations and communications with the Bank. Its integration in the Government’s apparatus
facilitated access to Government officials and enabled it to resolve issues quickly. The PMU
handled the responsibilities (procurement, financial management) of Component II: Residential Gas
Connections, and coordinated with the Ministry of Energy (MoE), which was responsible for the
technical preparation and supervision process and had assigned staff to coordinate with the PMU.
The PMU coordinated with local authorities and with the owners and users of the facilities. The
centralized, and at the same time broadly locally represented implementation arrangement facilitated
the monitoring of physical progress of work, as well as monitoring of progress towards achievement
of objectives. Monitoring indicators were collected locally based on agreed and uniform parameters,
and integrated by the PMU for the whole Project. The Chernobyl Committee’s role was changed

                                                  5
from the Project’s overall coordinator, to focus on its governmental role as the coordinator for
activities in the Chernobyl affected area of Belarus. The role of the Chernobyl Committee focused
mainly on ensuring that project activities take place in areas approved for habitation.

The Project did not include policy measures in the energy sector. This was a conscious decision by
the Bank and the Government. The project was not perceived as a good vehicle to implement policy
changes in Belarus’s complicated energy sector and policy environments. Policy discussions were
being conducted separately through country and sector work. The Government was taking slow but
consistent actions with regard to tariffs, but the policy was influenced by outside factors beyond the
control of the project or its partner agencies.

Adequacy of Government Commitment
The Government was committed to the Project at the highest levels, and provided timely resources
for its preparation and implementation. The project addressed two of the Government’s priority
objectives: (a) providing economic support for the population of the Chernobyl affected area in
Belarus; and (b) simultaneously addressing its priority area in energy efficiency and environmental
concerns. The Government committed to the necessary counterpart resources, maintained a highly
skilled PMU to implement the Project and provided the necessary skills to oversee Component II:
Residential Gas Connections.

The State Program for Mitigating Consequences of the Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster in 2011 – 2015
and up to 2020 with a budget of about $2.3 billion (approved by Resolution of the Council of
Ministers of the Republic of Belarus No.1922 dated 31 December 2010) is under implementation.
The budget is likely to be maintained or increased for the next 5 year plan. The Government’s
success in its energy efficiency programs is reflected in improvements in energy statistics for Belarus.
Based on International Energy Agency (IEA) data, Belarus achieved a 50% reduction in energy
intensity of its economy since 2002.

Figure 1.GDP (in PPP) Energy Intensity in Selected Countries in 2010 compared to 2002, toe/000 USD
                              0.7
                                                                                                    0.62              0.62
                                                                                                                               0.59
                              0.6
                                                                                                                                        0.51
                              0.5                                                                                   0.47
           toe/000 2000 USD




                                                                                                  0.42
                              0.4                                                                                            0.35
                                                        0.3
                                                                0.28
                              0.3                                        0.25
                                                                                  0.27                                                         2010
                                                              0.22                                           0.24                     0.23
                                               0.21   0.21
                                      0.18                             0.17                                                                    2002
                              0.2            0.15                               0.14
                                                                                           0.17
                                                                                                           0.15
                                                                                         0.13
                                    0.11
                              0.1

                               0




Source: Key World Energy Statistics. IEA 2004, 2012

Assessment of Risk
Two main risks inherent in the Project design were identified: (a) radioactive contamination risk and
(b) risk of household weak response to gas connections due to expenditure requirements.

                                                                                          6
Radiation Risk: At the time of appraisal, the fact that the project operated in a radioactively
contaminated area was a critical risk. The IAEA was a main partner with the Government and the
Bank in identifying and evaluating these risks. The IAEA had been involved in Belarus soon after
the Chernobyl accident. All aspects of the accident and its impact had been closely studied and
monitored. Scientific and technical cooperation was intensified and Belarus’ capacity in this area
was considerably strengthened. The IAEA reviewed the activities of the project, the relevant data
concerning wood contamination data, and national radiation protection regulations, and concluded
that by virtue of the project’s definition and delineation, the project’s activities will lead to long-term
positive radiological outcomes and not entail unusual measures for radiation protection during
project implementation.

Residential Gas Connections: The second risk was recognized based on experiences of expanding
gas pipelines under the program of the Government. While the main trunks and distribution lines
were built, households responded with different levels of effort to connect to the gas pipeline because
of additional expenses to retrofit the household which led to delays in connecting whole towns. The
Government then established programs to support households through subsidies, loans, and public
information campaigns. Surveys were undertaken to determine the number of homes and household
investment needs prior to undertaking investments in distribution lines. Bank financing was
designed to take place where the main gas pipelines already reached the town, and where a minimum
of 50% households were ready to connect to the gas pipeline.

Fiduciary Risks: The risk assessment for procurement in Belarus was high, but was considered
moderate for the Project given the staffing at the PMU and its experiences in implementing Bank
projects. The financial management arrangements were assessed and were found to be adequate
based on prior experiences and the staffing of the PMU.

Other Risks: Risks were consistently evaluated during project implementation. The country and
sector environment risks were rated as substantial as Belarus remained a centrally planned economy
with heavy top down policies and limited market maneuverability. At the same time, governance,
fraud and corruption risks were rated moderate. Project risks were consistently rated low due to
strong Government and implementing agency commitment, high technical capacity and low
opportunities for fraud and corruption. The project’s simplicity of design, fitness with the
Government programs and policies, adequate monitoring, and post operational sustainability made
overall project risks low to moderate.

Quality at Entry
There was no quality at entry assessment by the Quality Assurance Group.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Overall project implementation proceeded satisfactorily for the following reasons:

   (a) PMU personnel were experienced in Bank and Government requirements. Staffing was stable
       with minimal changes at the managerial, technical and fiduciary responsibilities. The PMU
       had independence in the daily operations of the Project and relations with the Bank. At the
       same time, it was well supported by and integrated into the Government’s program and
       structure which facilitated efforts to (i) resolve problems once identified (e.g. counterpart

                                                    7
         funding), (ii) monitor physical progress of the project and progress towards achievement of
         objectives.
   (b)   The Bank team was experienced in the country and sector. The team was adequately staffed.
         Technical, fiduciary and safeguard staff regularly visited project sites. Regional management
         supported team decisions and raised concerns to higher levels of the Government. The Minsk
         country office ensured timely and adequate information flow, and supported project
         monitoring.
   (c)   Mid-term review was undertaken on time, identified problems (e.g. need to reorient
         indicators for better measurement and monitoring) and opportunities (use of project savings
         and additional financing).
   (d)   Implementation support missions were undertaken regularly twice a year. Reports were
         candid and identified bottlenecks and solutions agreed with the PMU/Government. The Bank
         team mobilized specialized training on procurement for contractors.
   (e)   The PMU provided training on procurement and Bank policies on project implementation
         (including monitoring) to the oblast level committees responsible for project implementation
         and monitoring at the local levels.

Delays were encountered in the first year of the project due to delays in the startup of the technical
design consultant whose efforts and limited capacities were reportedly diverted by other assignments
with the Government. This was followed by some difficulties in attracting eligible bidders, who
were reluctant to participate given limited knowledge of Bank procurement procedures, and high
requirements for participation in ICB procedures. At the same time, contract amounts were not
attractive enough for foreign bidders and in Belarus’ market. The Bank’s response – providing
specialized training for the local contractors – was effective in resolving the situation successfully.
Subsequent to the training, the PMU took the lead in raising awareness of contractors, keeping
contractors informed of bidding opportunities, and encouraging them to bid on Project contracts.
Bidder response improved, the number of bids submitted improved to an average of 4 qualified bids
per tender.

During the financial crisis, there were occasional delays in counterpart funding, the issue of which
was raised by Bank management, and addressed within the year by the Government.

There was no assessment of implementation by the Quality Assurance Group.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design
The institutional framework for results monitoring was imbedded in the project management and
implementation arrangements. The PMU was responsible for the collection and reporting of data and
monitoring indicators. Data collection was undertaken at the site level by the owners of the facilities
being rehabilitated. Data for monitoring indicators were to be collected and/or estimated during
design and implementation of each component. For example, efficiencies and fuel use of outdated
boilers would be replaced by known efficiencies of new boilers. Pollutant contents of different fuels
are standard and reductions would be dependent on reductions in or replacement of fuel use. In the
case of residential gas connections, the MoE undertook surveys to estimate the number of homes to
be connected. During implementation, MoE surveys were accompanied with public information
campaigns to encourage the population to prepare their homes to use the supplied gas for heating
purposes. The PMU collated the information and included it in the progress reports submitted semi-
annually and prior to Bank missions and to EED and to MoE.


                                                   8
Mid-term and final social surveys were planned and implemented with the aim to strengthen and
verify the outcome measurements of monitoring indicators, and to gauge the satisfaction of the
population and the impact of the project and make corrections as needed.

M&E Implementation
Data collection and monitoring was implemented as designed. Baseline data (before intervention)
was collected at the feasibility study stage, and included the number of beneficiaries and amount of
fuel used (PDO indicators). Actual data is collected a year after commissioning to determine the
amount of fuel used following the investment.

M&E data were prepared by and discussed with the PMU in each Bank implementation support
missions. In site visits, M&E data was presented by the site owners who were closely associated
with the users, e.g. school directors, local government officials, and boiler house engineers). Site
owners demonstrated familiarity and knowledge with the works and the outcomes of the Bank-
financed activities and their impact on users of the facilities. Directors of social institutions were
keenly aware of the benefits of the investments and their impact on users.

The mid-term social survey was conducted for both the SIRP and the PCRP at the same time for the
energy efficiency components. Overall, the results of the survey were positive and clearly showed
the benefits perceived by the residents of schools.

For the final report, the PMU engaged a technical consultant in September 2013 to verify energy and
environmental savings. Overall, the technical consultant found the quality of the work satisfactory,
highlighted the need for maintenance and follow up on contractor’s work, particularly during the
warranty period. With regard to savings, the indicators were broadly in line with those observed by
the consultant, except in the case of savings in electricity consumption. The targets set by the Project
and measured by the PMU measured savings due to changes in lighting. The consultant noted the
savings due to installation of the more modern equipment, particularly in boiler houses. The
consultant’s calculated savings were MWh99,478 vs. MWh12,800 targeted, and MWh15,800
recorded due to savings due to installation of new more efficient lighting fixtures.

M&E Utilization.
The Bank team reviewed with the PMU the monitoring indicators to ensure consistency in
measurements. Indicators on physical progress were used during implementation support missions
to track project progress and contractors’ performance.

Project M&E data are reported to Oblast and National authorities to show progress on meeting
national targets established in the Government’s programs of energy efficiency and gasification.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environment
The project triggers Environment Category B safeguard policy (OP4.01). An Environmental
Management Plan was developed at appraisal to cover construction and renovation activities. Civil
Works contracts included clauses on environmental mitigation plans, and the supervisory engineer
was responsible for their monitoring. The environmental specialist participated in Bank missions
and visited project sites. Mission reports verified compliance with the environmental safeguard
policy and the environmental management plan. Environmental monitoring starts at the design stage
of sub-projects whereby specific activities are agreed to ensure that environmental requirements are

                                                   9
followed. During implementation, periodic checks and verification of compliance with norms are
undertaken by environmental, sanitary-epidemiological inspectorates. At completion, inspections of
sites and testing of equipment are undertaken prior to final acceptance. Compliance with the
Environmental Safeguard was rated Satisfactory, and no problems were encountered during
implementation. The risk to environmental management at the end of the Project is rated as
Moderate.

After review of national regulations and project interventions, the IAEA concluded that the project’s
activities will lead to long-term positive radiological outcomes and not entail unusual measures for
radiation protection during project implementation. The Belarus Government has well-established
procedures for radiation protection of the public. The scope of protective measures for the public
and for workers that apply to this project are expected to comply with international recommendations
and Belarus national regulations.

Financial Management
Financial management (FM) arrangements were in place throughout project implementation, and
relied on skills and experiences from other projects implemented by the PMU (SIRP). PMU staff
attended five Bank sponsored seminars on different aspects of financial management. The Bank
FMS specialist undertook a minimum of one mission per year. Overall, FM ratings were
Satisfactory, but were downgraded on few occasions to Moderately Satisfactory due to insufficient
disbursement evidence, deficiencies in the operational manual and/or for insufficient information in
financial management reports. Annual audit reports were received on a timely basis. All audit
opinions were unqualified. The risk to financial management at the end of the Project was Moderate.

Procurement
The Project utilized Bank procurement procedures and standard bidding documents. PMU staff
attended five Bank sponsored seminars on procurement. Implementation issues arose and some
delays were encountered at the start of the Project due to (a) limited market and capacity in technical
design consultants due to the prevalence of design consultants associated with the government in
Belarus; and (b) limited familiarity of local consultants with Bank procedure and capacity to meet
ICB requirements. The relatively small value of contract amounts limited the appetite of foreign
consultants to bid in the market of Belarus. The Bank and the EED/PMU worked together to remedy
the situation. The Bank provided specialized training for local contractors. The PMU followed up to
increase awareness and encourage bidders to bid. For example, bidding for boiler houses was
repeated due to weak response. Specifications were adjusted, more extensive advertisement was
undertaken, and training for local contractors was provided to familiarize them with Bank procedures
and requirements. All contracts were awarded and completed by project closing. The procurement
specialist regularly participated in implementation support missions. Procurement performance was
consistently rated as Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Technical and Institutional: At the completion of each sub-project, operations and maintenance of
the facilities will resort to normal operations which are the responsibility of local level institutions.
Technical capacities are available at the local levels to continue operations. The institutional
framework for the support, operations and management of the Project investments remain strong and


                                                   10
in place. The Government is committed to scale up the Project objectives and approach continuing
the focus on energy efficiency.

Financial and Commercial: The capacity of utilities to operate on a commercial basis is a standard
concern in Belarus because of the lack of cost recovery and large subsidies provided by the
Government (the fiscal cost of underpriced energy amounts to about 2 percent of GDP annually).
The Government has in place a program to gradually increase tariffs to reach 60% cost recovery in
the medium term. National and local authorities have shown their long term dedication to the
objective of reducing wasteful energy consumption and emissions. The Government has continued
to provide the necessary budgetary support as part of its commitment to the Energy Efficiency
Programs and Gasification Programs in the country.

Monitoring: Because the key monitoring indicators are part of the national statistics (fuel savings
and emission reductions, Kms of gas lines and population connected), the efficiency of the project
investments will continue to be monitored.

Demonstration and Marketing: According to local authorities, their sub-projects have been used as
demonstration of success to higher authorities when aiming to obtain budgets for additional energy
efficiency projects. School directors indicated that students note their more comfortable
environment and are encouraged at school to undertake energy saving measures. Documentary
evidence and stories of the improvements has been recorded and are shown in schools and in the
media to demonstrate and encourage energy saving behavior. The World Bank has also published
some of the success stories of the Project on its own website.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

The outcome of the Project is highly satisfactory. The Project focused on energy efficiency
measures in the Chernobyl affected area of Belarus. Energy efficiency has been a key element in
Belarus’ strategy and its cooperation with the Bank, and the project was therefore responsive to the
country’s important priorities. Policy reforms are needed in Belarus, however the Bank avoided
including policy requirements given the nature of the Project, and the Government’s clear policy
objective. The Government team did not promise policy reforms that it knew would not proceed due
to the overall policy environment in the country. This clear approach and the Government’s
commitment in the energy sector increased the likelihood that the Project would yield the large
benefits of energy savings and improved service delivery to the vulnerable population. The Project
has surpassed its objectives on all the indicators measured. The indicators measure outcomes that are
directly related to the investments made. Qualitative and quantitative surveys and Bank field visits
verified the reported outcome in on-site observations and discussions with beneficiaries. Project
efficiency measures in terms of energy savings given capital and operational costs are high. Project
achievements are detailed in section 3.2 below.

The Bank provided the necessary skills and budgetary support to prepare and implement the Project.
Reports were clear and management follow up effective. The Borrower supported the Project with
effective staffing and budgetary support. Environmental safeguards were adhered to and supervised
adequately. Procurement delays and a case of rebidding occurred. In consultation with the Bank, the
implementing agency took timely action to remove obstacles and avoid long delays. Financial
management faced some lapses, but were detected and corrected quickly. Project momentum was
kept up with continued communications at all levels.



                                                 11
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of Objectives is high. The objectives of the Project continue to be relevant to long term
strategies in Belarus. The Government completed three energy efficiency programs, the current one
of which is valid until 2015. Improving economic conditions of the population, and reducing energy
intensity of the Belarussian economy through energy efficiency and other measures remains a
priority as outlined in the Bank’s latest Country Partnership Strategy (FY14-17) discussed by the
Board in June 2013. The Government has a clear and long term strategy in the energy efficiency
sector that has been consistent and successful. It continues to provide monitoring of nuclear
contamination and support to the population affected by the long term impact of the Chernobyl
nuclear power plant accident.

Relevance of Design and Implementation is high. The components of the Project are designed to
directly deliver the intended benefits of a warmer and cleaner environment in an efficient manner by
installing modern, efficient and environmentally friendly equipment. Capacity building and public
information supported the effectiveness of physical investments by ensuring awareness and
behavioral changes to enhance the objectives of the Project. In addition to relying on tested
arrangements for Bank financed project in the same sector in Belarus, the implementation
arrangements were based on the government’s well-coordinated structure which facilitated
monitoring of the works and outcomes.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs
in Annex 2)

The objective of the Project is to provide the population residing in the Chernobyl affected area with
energy efficient and reliable heat and hot water services in order to improve their living environment.
The Project achieved the objectives by providing direct investments in equipment and infrastructure
that would promote energy efficiency and reliability and provide the necessary comfort for
beneficiaries. The extent of the Project’s achievement is substantial. Indicators to measure the
achievement of these objectives have been surpassed in all cases as follows:

(a) Number of beneficiaries receiving reliable and efficient services under the energy efficiency
component (250,769 students, teachers, patients, hospital administrators, other users of public social
institutions and household residents) surpassed the revised target of 250,000 people estimated at
project restructuring.

(b) Number of Households connected to the gas pipeline for cooking, heat and hot water services
(5,005 households) surpassed the revised target of 4,000 households.

(c) The amount of energy saved at completion due to investments in modernization of heat
distribution network and installation of heat substations, and energy efficient boiler equipment
reached MWh/year 248,736 surpassing the revised target of MWh/year of 158,000.

(d) Amount of electricity saved due to installation of new lighting fixtures reached MWh/year 15,800
surpassing the revised target of MWh/year of 12,800. Total electricity saved (including installation
of modern boilers, pumps and other equipment) reached MWH/year 100,478.


                                                  12
(e) Amount of emissions reduced due to the installation of the modern efficient equipment reached
114,661.6 tons of CO2 surpassing the revised target of 41,350 tons of C02.

(f) Efficiency and reliability improved in 32 boiler houses, and overall heating and lighting services
improved for 443 and 298 buildings respectively also surpassing the targets.

                                  Figure 2. Project Cost by Oblast

                                     Project Cost by Oblast, USD

                                           12,846,903
                        28,791,347
                                                                     Brest Oblast
                                                                     Gomel Oblast
                                                  36,108,061
                                                                     Mogilev Oblast




                           Figure 3. Number of Beneficiaries by Oblast


                                  Number of Beneficiaries by Oblast

                                             31,362
                        101,023
                                                                       Brest Oblast
                                                                       Gomel Oblast
                                                         123,389
                                                                       Mogilev Oblast




                Figure 4. Reduction in Fuel and Energy Consumption by Oblast

                      Reduction in Fuel and Energy Consumption by Oblast, toe


                               17,541                 18,289

                                                                             Brest Oblast
                                                                             Gomel Oblast
                                                                             Mogilev Oblast
                                         31,721




                                                    13
Based on the above, the Project has significantly achieved its development objectives and is rated as
highly satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

In 2005 at appraisal of the original PCRP, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the different sub-
components of Component I: Energy Efficiency Improvements based on a life cycle analysis was
estimated based on the gas price of US$67 per thousand cubic meters (TCM) in Belarus and US$150
per TCM in Poland. The ERR for the sub-components varied from 9% for window replacement to
28% for boiler replacements based on the gas price in Belarus and respectively from 14% to 36%
based on the gas price in Poland.

Upon completion of the Project, the actual ERR for the whole project was estimated using the same
methodology, taking into account the actual average capital investments per type of energy
efficiency measures (e.g. reconstruction of boiler houses, replacement of windows, installation of
energy efficient lighting fixtures, etc.), and actual boarder price of natural gas of US$165 per TCM
in 2013. The table below shows the economic rate of return and more details are given in Annex 3.

                        Table 1.Economic and Financial Internal Rates of Return

                                          At Appraisal              Actual at Completion
                                   Gas price in    Gas price in      Current gas price in
                                    Belarus          Poland                Belarus
   Energy efficient lighting          11%              18%                 18.2%
   Window replacement                  9%              14%                 18.8%
   Boiler replacement                 28%              36%                 31.4%


The prices of natural gas and electricity have increased significantly compared to those at the
original project appraisal. The actual ERR, which vary between 18% and 31%, demonstrate strong
economic viability of the energy efficiency improvements supported by the project. Taking into
account the total investment in the above-mentioned energy efficiency improvements the average
weighted ERR for the entire Component I: Energy Efficiency Improvements is estimated to be about
25%.

At appraisal a cost effectiveness analysis was conducted for Component II: Residential Gas
Connections. The aim of this component was to introduce a clean and safe heating method for
individual houses that risked using contaminated wood fuel for heating. At appraisal the gas heating
was compared to electric heating with results demonstrating that annual costs of the gas heating
option were about half of the annual costs of electric heating.

With current gas and electricity prices the annual cost of gas heating are about 40% of the annual
cost of electric heating demonstrating that gas heating is the most cost effective clean heating
method.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


                                                  14
The overall outcome rating is Highly Satisfactory because:

   -   The objective and design of the Project, its emphasis on energy efficiency and improving
       living conditions remains highly relevant to the current strategic objectives of the
       Government of Belarus and its stated strategic cooperation with the Bank.
   -   The Project is highly satisfactory in achieving and surpassing its key objective in a timely
       and efficient manner.
   -   Energy savings surpassed expectations and rendered project efficiency as high.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project had positive poverty and social development impact. The Chernobyl affected area of
Belarus suffered physical, social and economic consequences from the fallout of the Chernobyl
accident in 1986. According to the National Report: A Quarter of a Century After the Chernobyl
Catastrophe, Outcomes and Prospects (2011), real major losses to the economy since the accident are
estimated at USD 43.3 billion (of which USD 13.7 billion is in lost profit) and include lost
agricultural, forestry and other production. According to the CAS (FY08-11), the Chernobyl
affected area continued to have the highest rates of poverty incidence in Belarus. The Project targets
vulnerable beneficiaries in an economically and socially less fortunate area of the country. The
Project did not intend in its design to discriminate its focus based on gender given the nature of its
intended beneficiaries – mainly children, the elderly, and other vulnerable occupants of social
institutions. According to the M&E indicators, the project had an equal gender impact.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

While the Project intentionally did not address institutional reform aspects of the energy sector, it
enabled continued dialogue with the Government and reinforced the Bank’s commitment to the
country and sector. Other technical assistance studies were completed or are under discussions that
address the institutional and financial issues in the energy sector (e.g. the completed Renewable
Energy Legal and Regulatory Framework Harmonization with the EU, Biomass-Based District
Heating, and the planned Heat Tariff Reform and Social Impact Mitigation (FY15)). The Project
also gave the Government’s counterparts and the private sector exposure to international best
practices in procurement, financial management, and modern technical interventions for optimizing
energy efficiency.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Directors of social institutions, during site visits and in the social survey, often commented on the
improved learning and healing environment and cited statistics such as less absenteeism due to
sickness from the cold due to improved heating, or fewer complaints from vision deficiencies due to
better lights. While it is likely that a warmer school environment is more comfortable, no empirical
studies or comparisons with other schools were undertaken in the project to confidently associate
such outcomes with the Project interventions.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


                                                  15
A social survey was conducted at completion of the project, the details of which are in Annex 5. The
survey focused on (a) the perceptions of the population in terms of the results of the investments as it
affected their comfort, wellbeing, improvements in the learning and healing environments,
affordability and ease of use (gas component), and (b) the process of the investment and lessons
learned.

For the Energy Efficiency Improvements Component, questions to the focus groups were divided to
distinguish between investments in (a) windows and doors, (b) lights, and (c) insulation. The focus
group interviews indicated overwhelming and high satisfaction with the results of investments in
terms of improved and comfortable temperatures, better ventilation, less noise, better lighting and
overall more pleasant aesthetics in the social facilities. Because of the immediate visibility and
impact on users, window replacement was seen as the most effective in reducing cold and draft, and
improving the overall living environment. Administrators associated the improvements with
reduction in absenteeism, better health, less complaints with eyesight and overall better environment
for children to learn and teachers to teach. In hospitals, administrators especially appreciated the
better working conditions due to improved lights, and noted the impact of comfortable warm
environments on improved moods and behaviors of patients.

With regard to the Residential Gas Connections Component, the survey found that 60% of the
households used natural gas for heating purposes during the 2012/2013 season. Some residents
(about 40%) continue to use wood for heating while retrofitting their homes for future connection to
gas heating. Almost all homes (99.2%) use gas for cooking. Owners of private houses are more
likely to prepare their homes (internal piping and equipment) than residents of state or company
owned homes. Eighty eight percent of respondents were satisfied with the quality of the installed
equipment and services. There is overall satisfaction with the results due to convenience and ease of
use (cleaner house, user friendly equipment).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk that the development outcomes of the project will not be maintained is moderate. The
project falls within Belarus’ strongly supported energy efficiency program. Supporting the economic
and social revitalization of the Chernobyl affected area also remains a Government priority. The
institutional framework for maintaining the development objective and the Project’s interventions is
strong with adequate skills and government financing. The energy efficiency program in Belarus
continues to be renewed with clear performance indicators and measurements of energy saved,
environmental consequences, and impact on the economy as a whole. The population is increasingly
aware of the need for energy conservation and environmental protection, and public information
campaigns continue to take place in and outside schools.

One important risk that may affect the replication and expansion of the development outcome is a
change in the external environment, namely fuel supply and prices from Russia, which could impact
the energy sector in Belarus through increased fuel prices. It is difficult to assess the potential for
this risk to materialize or the extent of its severity. Fuel import prices have been increased regularly
from US$47/TCM in 2005 to US$263.5/TCM in 2011. In 2011, Belarus negotiated a price of
US$165.60 up to 2014. Belarus passed on the price escalations mainly to fuel suppliers. At the
same time, the crisis further emboldened the Government in its support to energy efficiency
measures.



                                                  16
On the one hand, an increase in fuel prices will continue to encourage Belarus to improve on energy
efficiency measures, and to maintain project investments which become even more economically
valuable (Energy Efficiency Improvements Component). On the other hand, gas price increases
which are passed to consumers will encourage them to further regulate their consumption, but may
entice them to switch back to other less expensive sources of fuel (Residential Gas Connections
Component). Overall Belarus has weathered this risk through negotiations with the Russian
Federation. The Government continues to work with the Bank in this area within the agreed strategy.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance at entry is satisfactory. The Bank relied on quality studies and analysis related to
energy efficiency measures in post-Soviet economies, and ensured the Project is well anchored in the
long term strategy of the country. The Bank team included experienced technical and fiduciary staff
familiar with the region and the country circumstances. Fiduciary and safeguard challenges and
risks were assessed and the necessary implementation framework was in place. The M&E
framework was well designed and included achievements that can be directly related to the Project.
The Bank team provided hands-on support and training for the Government’s implementation team
on procurement and financial management. There were no identifiable shortcomings in the
preparation of the Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during implementation support was satisfactory. The Bank team ensured
continuity and consistency of good performance from preparation and throughout supervision.
Implementation support visits were undertaken twice a year, were action oriented and focused on
resolving problems and monitoring progress towards achievement of objectives. Technical
discussions focused on modern technologies appropriate for Belarus, including opportunities to use
of local fuels. Field visits verified capacity and institutional framework for the reliability of services
and the operations and maintenance of the newly installed equipment. Technical, fiduciary and
safeguard issues were addressed in a comprehensive manner; support and training was provided
during missions by the relevant Bank experts. Staff verified the social impact of the Project through
discussions and field visits. Adequate attention was paid to data collection of the M&E indicators.
Country office staff maintained communications with officials and resolved problems directly with
the PMU and through discussions with authorities. Sector and country management provided
pointed useful comments and supported the team by raising difficult issues (e.g. counterpart funding)
with the Government and providing the appropriate budget. Shortcomings in supervision were minor
and did not affect Project progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                   17
Bank performance during preparation and supervision was satisfactory with minor project delays,
timely resolution of problems, attention to technical, fiduciary, safeguard and monitoring aspects of
the Project. The overall Bank performance rating is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s performance was satisfactory. The Government supports the dual objectives of
the project (energy efficiency and improvements in living conditions in the Chernobyl area) with
considerable resources in long term and far reaching programs. The sector framework at the national
and local levels ensures that interventions made by the Project will be appropriately operated and
maintained.

For Project preparation and implementation, the Government assigned responsible agencies and
provided them with the authority to manage the project within the Government’s framework of the
energy efficiency program. The EED was effective in overseeing the Project and coordinating with
other agencies including the Chernobyl Committee and the MoE. Delays were encountered in
providing counterpart financing to the Project during the global financial crisis and due to economic
difficulties at home. The Government addressed the issue and restored counterpart financing within
the fiscal year. Overall, shortcomings were minor and did not impact the final achievements of the
Project objectives.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Project Management Unit was satisfactory. Staff is knowledgeable of the
sector and capable of working with the Government and the Bank to ensure progress. The PMU
undertook the fiduciary responsibilities on behalf of the MoE, and to coordinate with and to report to
MoE and the Chernobyl Committee and the MoE. The PMU handled Bank requirements with a high
level of professionalism. The PMU provided training in procurement, project management and
monitoring to local level authorities responsible for project implementation and monitoring. One
shortcoming in the PMU performance was the supervision of the technical design consultant which
initially delayed project start up. The consultant was engaged in other Government related projects
and did not give the Project the necessary priority. Nevertheless, the PMU was able to correct the
situation through discussions with the Government and the consultant. Legal covenants were adhered
to. Procurement performance was consistently rated as satisfactory. Financial management was
often satisfactory, but was downgraded to moderately satisfactory for minor shortcomings in
reporting and disbursements. Overall, the PMU was able to implement the project in a timely manner,
and coordinated the Project among the many levels of Government. The shortcoming in the PMU’s
performance did not impact the achievement of Project objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating for Borrower performance is satisfactory. The Government and the Implementing
agency performed well during the preparation and implementation of the Project, cooperating with
the Bank to resolve issues. High level of attention was paid to the Project. Coordination among
many actors was performed well by the PMU which also adequately handled fiduciary, safeguard
and technical matters in a timely fashion.

                                                 18
6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

   1. The Project was an essential component of the Government’s larger well implemented
      energy efficiency programs and was aligned with the Government’s program to improve
      living conditions in the Chernobyl affected area. Government commitment and support
      which are clearly stated in policies and programs increase the likelihood of project success.

   2. The Project did not require changes in pricing and subsidies given the government policies
      particularly in the Chernobyl affected area, the targeted beneficiaries and the overall level of
      relationship with the country in terms of policy dialogue. To require deviations from
      Government policies in projects where the policy environment is not ready is likely to derail
      good implementation and successful achievements of tangible benefits.

   3. By supporting a project with local (improve living conditions), national (reduce energy
      intensity) and global (reduce global emissions) objectives, the Bank created an environment
      of confidence conducive to continued future dialogue with Belarus on these important issues.

   4. Participation of users and beneficiaries increases their understanding of and commitment to
      the project and improves end results. The Project encouraged participation of beneficiaries,
      especially school children and administrators, while using Belarus’ own methodologies such
      as including energy efficiency in the curriculum and requesting administrators to be part of
      the monitoring team.

   5. Not allowing design consultants affiliated with the Sub-Borrower to participate in the project
      limited the pool of eligible local design consultants available in the market and constrained
      the potential for capacity building.

   6. Increased awareness of contractors about project bidding opportunities in the early stages of
      the project (appraisal) helps to limit delays. The continued follow up by the PMU, including
      training, with bidders during implementation improved the local understanding and the
      chances of success in future tenders. Revised terms and conditions of bidding documents to
      adjust to local conditions elicited sufficient number of responsive bids.

   7. The establishment and revision of baselines and targets that are directly related to project
      outputs simplify measurement, monitoring and association with the project outcomes.

   8. Continuous dialogue between the Bank and the Government teams facilitates timely
      resolution of problems, limits delays, and builds strong relations for future dialogue.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower/implementing agency prepared a comprehensive Implementation Completion
Report and responded promptly to all requests for information that the task team requested.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Stakeholder/beneficiary comments are presented in Annex 5-A: Voices from the Chernobyl affected
area of Belarus: Beneficiary reactions to improvements in energy efficiency activities

                                                 19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal  Revised/Additional Actual/Latest
                                                                                Percentage of
         Components              Estimate (USD Financing Estimate Estimate (USD
                                                                                 Appraisal
                                     millions)   (USD millions)      millions)
1. Energy Efficiency
                                        48.00               72.40          79.30           109.53
Improvements
2. Residential Gas Connections              8.50            12.05          10.90            90.46
3. Project Management and
                                            5.00             6.60           1.70            25.76
Implementation Support

           Total Project Costs          61.50               91.05             91.90         100.93
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.125               0.075             0.20         100.00
    Total Financing Required            61.63               91.13             92.10         101.06


(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                Type of                                   Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                   Estimate        Estimate
                                              Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                        11.13          12.10         108.72
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                80.00          80.00         100.00
Development




                                                     20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component                                   Output                          Contribution to Objective

Component 1: Energy Efficiency                                              - Improvements in living
Improvements: Final Cost: US$79.3M                                          environments for 250,769
                                                                            beneficiaries reached vs. 250,000
                                                                            targeted

                                                                            - Environmental benefits achieved:
                                                                            121,147 tons annually of C02
                                                                            emissions reduction vs. 41,350
                                                                            tons of C02 targeted
- Energy Efficiency and Reliability in      - 32 unreliable old boilers     Energy savings and reliable heat
Heat Generation: Replacement of old         replaced vs. 33 planned         services provided.
inefficient boilers and installing modern                                   - 248,736 MWh/year of heat saved
boilers and cogeneration equipment                                          vs. 158,000 MWh targeted. With a
                                                                            conservative estimate of 3 years
- Energy Efficiency in Heat                                                 life of the Project, about 750,000
Distribution: Replacement of old                                            MWh have been saved already
pipelines, modernization of building
level heat substations
- Energy Efficiency in Public               - 443 buildings rehabilitated   Energy savings and improved
Buildings. Replacement of old               vs. 365 buildings planned       living environments provided:
windows, insulation, and lights with        - 145 buildings with window     - 15,800 MWh/year of electricity
longer life, more efficient equipment       replacements vs. 118            saved vs. 12,800 MWh targeted for
                                            planned                         changes in lighting only.
                                            - 298 buildings with lights     - A total of MWH/year 99,478 of
                                            vs. 247 planned                 savings including from more
                                                                            efficient equipment such as
                                                                            boilers, pumps, etc.
Component 2: Residential Gas                - 219 Kms of pipelines          - 5005 households connected to
Connections: Actual Cost US$10.88 M         installed vs. 200 planned       the gas network and use gas for
                                                                            cooking and/or heating vs. 4000
                                                                            planned
*Figures are from last ISR as of September 2013. The Government’s ICR provides slightly higher
figures as of December 2013.




                                                       21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

For the Post Chernobyl Recovery Project (PCRP) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) prepared in
2006, an economic analysis was carried out for Component 1: Energy Efficiency Improvements,
which accounted, at the time, for the bulk of the project costs. For Component II: Residential Gas
Connections a cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted for the investment in gas connections for
residential space heating in regional towns, since the major benefits, such as reduced indoor air
pollution, and in many cases, elimination of the use of contaminated wood, are not quantifiable due
to the lack of monitoring data.

Component 1: Energy Efficiency Improvements

At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (ERR) was estimated for the different sub-
components of the Energy Efficiency Improvements Component of the project based on the
Belarusian gas price of US$ 65 per thousand cubic meters (TCM) and the Polish gas price at that
time of US$150 per TCM.

During the project the main sub-components of the Energy Efficiency Improvements were:

       i. Installation of energy-efficient light fixtures in public buildings, mainly in schools and
            hospitals. Replacing old and inefficient light fixtures which did not provide sufficient
            lighting, impairing school children’s eyesight.
       ii. Installation of low-heat-loss and double-glazed windows in public buildings. Replacing
            old and deteriorating double wood-frame windows which have become leaky and fragile.
       iii. Boiler plant replacement. Replacing old and inefficient oil-fired or gas-fired boilers with
            new gas-fired boilers, and in a few cases, with new wood-fired boilers using woodchips.

Upon completion of the Project, the actual ERR was estimated using the same methodology, and
taking into account the actual average capital investments (excluding VAT) per type of energy
efficiency measures (e.g. reconstruction of boiler houses, replacement of windows, installation of
energy efficient lighting fixtures, etc.), demonstrated energy savings from the monitoring and
evaluation reports, and the current actual natural gas price of US$165 per TCM in 2013. Component
1, Energy Efficiency Improvements covers about 72% (about US$80 million) of the total funds used
during the project. The actual estimated results for ERR are shown in the table below.

                           Table 1. Economic Internal Rates of Return

                                          At Appraisal              Actual at Completion
                                 Belarus Prices   Polish Prices        Current Prices
   Energy efficient lighting         11%               18%                 18.2%
   Window replacement                 9%               14%                 18.8%
   Boiler replacement                28%               36%                 31.4%

The prices of natural gas and electricity have increased significantly compared to those at the
original project appraisal. The actual ERR, which vary between 18% and 31%, demonstrate strong
economic viability of the energy efficiency improvements supported by the project. Taking into
account the total investments in the above-mentioned energy efficiency improvements the average
weighted ERR for the whole energy efficiency component is estimated to be about 25%.



                                                 22
A large part of the project benefits directly related to the project objectives are difficult to quantify
and no attempt was made to quantify them under this analysis. These benefits include an increase in
the comfort level of users of rehabilitated schools and medical facilities, lower air pollution levels,
lower life-cycle costs for buildings rehabilitated and increased employment due to opportunities
generated by the Project.

Component 2: Residential Gas Connections

The primary objective of the regional town residential gas connection investment is to improve
heating services and to reduce the health hazards resulted from burning wood for space heating.
There is an additional element of pollution from wood burning in the Chernobyl Accident-affected
areas of Belarus due to forest contamination from the radioactive fallout and because of concerns of
radioactive contamination in the food chain through ash disposal.

   Table 2. Distributed Residential Space Heating, Gas vs. Electricity, for an Example House
                                       Bykhov, Mogilev

                                               At Appraisal                Actual at Completion
                                                                                        Electric
                                      Gas Heating    Electric Heating   Gas Heating
                                                                                        Heating
                                         US$                  US$          US$            US$
Capital Investment per home
Including gas connection and
                                         2,400            2,080            2,600           2,200
installation of boiler and internal
piping
Annualized capital cost over 20
                                         321                  278          383              295
years at 12% discount rate
Annual cost of fuel/energy
                                          93                  769          243             1,330
At local prices
Annualized cost including
maintenance                              414              1,048            626             1,625
At local prices

The overall annualized cost of distributed electric heating at appraisal was about 2 times that of the
distributed gas heating. At completion the project the prices of gas and electricity have increased
however electricity more than gas. With current prices electric heating would result in even higher
costs, gas heating annual cost being only about 40% the annual costs of electric heating.




                                                    23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Anarkan Akerova            Counsel                              LEGCF Legal Counsel
                           Senior Municipal Management
Maha J. Armaly                                                  ECSUW Operations Officer
                           Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov        Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN Finance Officer
Elena Klochan              Sr Country Program Officer           ECCBY Operations Officer
Galina S. Kuznetsova       Sr Financial Management Spec.        ECSO3 Financial Specialist
Feng Liu                   Senior Energy Specialist             ECSEG Energy Specialist
Larisa Marquez             Operations Analyst                   MNCA5 Operations Analyst
Pekka Kalevi Salminen      Senior Energy Specialist             ECSEG Energy Specialist
                                                                      Procurement
Anna L Wielogorska         Senior Procurement Specialist        EASR1
                                                                      Specialist
Supervision/ICR
                                                                        Social Development
Maria L. Amelina           Senior Social Development Spec.       SDV
                                                                        Specialist
                           Senior Municipal Management
Maha J. Armaly                                                  ECSUW Operations Officer
                           Specialist/Consultant
Irina Babich               Financial Management Specialist      ECSO3 Financial Specialist
Nicholay Chistyakov        Senior Finance Officer               CTRLN Finance Officer
Daria Goldstein            Senior Counsel                       LEGLE Legal Counsel
                                                                      Environmental
Inesis Kiskis              Sr Environmental Spec.               ECSSD
                                                                      Specialist
Elena Klochan              Sr Country Program Officer           ECCBY Operations Officer
Feng Liu                   Senior Energy Specialist             ECSEG Energy Specialist
Larisa Marquez             Operations Analyst                   MNCA5 Operations Analyst
Peggy Janice Masterson     Operations Officer                   ECSEG Operations Officer
                                                                      Social Development
Nicolas Perrin             Senior Social Development Spec       ECSSO
                                                                      Specialist
                                                                      Procurement
Alexander Rukavishnikov    Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
                                                                      Specialist
Pekka Kalevi Salminen      Senior Energy Specialist             ECSEG Energy Specialist
Alexander Sharabaroff      Operations Officer                   CSBO2 Energy Specialist
                                                                      Procurement
Gurcharan Singh            Senior Procurement Specialist        TWICT
                                                                      Specialist
Iwona Warzecha             Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3 Financial Specialist
                                                                      Procurement
Anna L Wielogorska         Senior Procurement Specialist        EASR1
                                                                      Specialist
Rozena Serrano             Program Assistant                    ECSEG Program Assistant




                                            24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY05                                    9.35                        34.32
 FY06                                   43.88                       167.27

 FY11                                    7.71                         30.00

                          Total:        60.94                       231.59
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                   19.02                        64.42
 FY08                                   19.89                        58.76
 FY09                                   23.50                       107.79
 FY10                                   18.96                        85.72
 FY11                                   20.57                        74.84
 FY12                                   14.7                         73.26
 FY13                                    9.14                        46.62
 FY14                                    6.54                        47.77

                          Total:       132.32                       559.18




                                       25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Social Analysis

A social survey was conducted during the preparation of the Project. As planned, two follow up
social surveys were conducted during implementation, one at the mid-term review and one for
project completion. The social surveys benefitted from experiences and conclusions of similar
surveys conducted for the Social Infrastructure Project. In addition, specialized surveys were used
by the Ministry of Energy for the extension of gas pipelines for heating purposes to households.

Methodology
For the Energy Efficiency Improvements Component, a list of facilities where works have been
implemented was prepared along with the type of work undertaken. The survey included 15
settlements covering the three participating regions of Mogilev, Gomel and Brest. Fifty two expert
interviews (37 interviews with employees of institutions and 15 interviews with representatives of
regional and local governments) and 15 focus group discussions with beneficiaries were conducted.

For the Residential Gas Connections Component, a quantitative analysis was carried out with 530
face to face interviews with households located in 4 settlements of the participating regions (36% in
Gomel, 52.1% in Brest, and 11.3% in Mogilev). Participants were selected through stratified
sampling. The sample volume of 530 households was calculated with a 95% confidence level and a
sampling error not exceeding 3%. In addition, 3 beneficiary focus group interviews were undertaken.

Results
The surveys focused on (a) the perceptions of the population in terms of the results of the
investments as it affected their comfort, wellbeing, improvements in the learning and healing
environments, affordability and ease of use (gas component), and (b) the process of the investment
and lessons learned.

For the Energy Efficiency Improvements Component, questions to the focus groups were divided to
distinguish between investments in (a) windows and doors, (b) lights, and (c) insulation. Windows,
doors and lights were the more visible investments associated with benefits. Because of the
immediate visibility and impact on users, window replacement was seen as the most effective
investment in reducing cold and draft, and improving the overall living environment. The focus
group interviews indicated overwhelming and high satisfaction with the results of investments in
terms of improved and comfortable temperatures, better ventilation, less noise, better lighting and
overall more pleasant aesthetics in the social facilities. The quality, as reflected in the ease of use
(e.g. open and close windows) and maintenance (less need to paint) of newly installed equipment,
was noted. Impacts were overwhelmingly positive. Improved temperatures and reduction of drafts
were immediately associated with the installation of doors and windows. Benefits of installing
screens to ward off insects in the summer were also noted.

Problems were reported in some facilities. Some were related to the work of the contractor. Some
window frames shrank following installation and cracks appeared. Problems with insufficient
ventilation, increased humidity, large and difficult to reach windows (for cleaning purposes) were
reported. Contractors were called back and problems were resolved under the guarantee period.
Some of the lights were reported to have burned out prior to the end of the warranty period.
Interviewees stated some preferences with the design of lamps.


                                                  26
Administrators associated the improvements with reduction in absenteeism, better health, less
complaints with eyesight and overall better environment for children to learn and teachers to teach.
In hospitals, administrators especially appreciated the better working conditions due to improved
lights, and noted the impact of comfortable warm environments on improved moods and behaviors
of patients.

The social survey also commented on the process of work, particularly for installing windows, doors
and lights which were undertaken within buildings. The survey recommended that more interaction
with users is needed throughout the design as well as implementation of the works in order to take
their views into account. Timing of the works is important. While it was attempted to finish the
works in the summer, particularly in schools, and before the beginning of the cold season, this was
not always possible either due to delays or because of the necessity to finish the work. Overall
contractors were reliable and efficient, yet in some cases, some were called to finish the work and
remove the remaining debris.

With regard to the Residential Gas Connections Component, the survey found that 60% of the
households used natural gas for heating purposes during the 2012/2013 season. Almost all homes
(99.2%) use gas for cooking. The average annual cost of heating with gas for similar traditional size
homes is reported to be the lowest at BYR1.0M vs. a cost of BY1.4M for wood. This is due to the
highly subsidized gas prices for households in Belarus. Cost of heating with gas was acceptable to
respondents. Owners of private houses are more likely to prepare their homes (internal piping and
equipment) than residents of state or company owned homes. There is overall satisfaction with the
results due to convenience and ease of use (cleaner house, user friendly equipment). Eighty eight
percent of respondents were satisfied with the quality of the installed equipment and services.




                                                 27
Annex 5-A: Voices from the Chernobyl affected area of Belarus: Beneficiary reactions to
improvements in energy efficiency activities

   Head of Gomel hospital: “It became warmer and lighter, and we have managed to save budget
   funds. Compared to the time when we didn't have the new windows and lighting, we are now
   saving 15 to 20 percent. Thanks to the project, the hospital had a surplus that is being used to
   buy even more energy efficient windows, and make other improvements, such as new sitting
   areas and gardens for veterans and other patients. “

   Principal of Gomel School: “The temperature in the classrooms dropped to 12º C; children sat
   in the classrooms in their jackets; and 70 percent of the windows were so badly broken that it
   was impossible to wash them. “

   Teacher of Gomel School: “That was the last cold winter inside school. Old windows and doors
   have been replaced with new and insulated ones, making school warmer and quieter. Traffic
   noise and other outside sounds no longer disrupt students' concentration.

   State Standard Committee’s EED: “Certainly, the ecological aspect is very important as these
   are the affected areas. And the reduction in emissions is considerable – it’s twofold. We bring
   down the emissions and so help rehabilitate the area…”

   A resident of Lesnoe settlement: “I myself never expected it could be done so quickly and free of
   charge. I wish the gas connection was done earlier when we were young”

   Gas boiler operator, Chausy boiler house: “The boiler house was commissioned last autumn and
   before that it was just horrible, by early spring all the snow around us was just black. The boiler
   house has modern equipment, it’s fully automatic, and we’re able to save a lot of fuel. It’s clean,
   it doesn’t smell of gas and my working conditions are perfect… “

   Hospital Chief Physician: “At our hospital, a boiler house was built and windows and doors were
   replaced. Previously, the heat losses amounted to 15% from each window. How was it possible to
   keep the building warm if all the heat escaped outside?”

   Hospital nurse: “Prior to retrofitting the windows were kept in place with two nails. When they
   needed washing, we took out the windows, washed them and then put them back in place."”

   The College of Consumer Services in Gomel: “I would like to single out the assembly hall and
   the gym: the temperature would never go above 15 degrees in there in the wintertime, and it was
   impossible to have classes there. Whenever events were held in the assembly hall, the window
   blinds would dangle, as if in the wind. The wind used to blow inside.”

   A college in Gomel: “… in the winter it was very cold in here, especially in the hallway. There
   were times when students had to put on their winter clothes inside the building. Naturally, it is
   impossible to work in such conditions. Some would even put on their gloves. Last winter we did
   not have any issues of that kind - everyone left their clothes in the cloakroom, it was warm and
   nice!”

   A School in Gomel: “According to the number of doctor’s notes, in the course of this school year
   we have had 1,558 cases of sickness among a total of 930 students. In the school year preceding



                                                 28
the replacement of windows – in 2011/2012 – this figure exceeded 2,000 with the same total
number of students.”

A hospital in Selets: “With the new windows, firstly, the temperature in here rose by about 4
degrees right away, so that’s very good. Secondly, the airing has become much better.”

School in Rechitsa: “Firstly, the sound insulation is very good – we get less noise from the street,
which means less distraction for the kids. Also, there are no more draughts in here. In the past,
children used to be reseated farther away from the windows, and in order to do that their desks
had to be moved close together, so sanitary standards had to be infringed on. Now, things have
become safer – in the past, whenever the wind blew, a window frame would swing open or even
pop out sometimes.”

An orphanage in Rogachev: “The building dates back to 1968, so one can imagine what kind of
windows we used to have here. They hadn't been replaced since the construction of the building.
Naturally, due to the influence of low temperatures and due to the fact that it had been a long
time, the windows didn’t perform their function. When we dismounted the windows and drew up
an inspection report in which their condition was indicated, it turned out that 90 percent of them
were in bad shape.”

Secondary School in Stolin: “I have worked for the school for 15 years already, and I remember
that in the past children used to walk around the school wearing their mittens and outerwear. We
couldn’t even dream of being able to wear light shoes and blouses in school in the wintertime.
Now we can do it. We understood it right after the windows were replaced. Last April, when the
heating season was over, I made some calculations and ended up with [heat savings of] 19.5
percent compared to the previous heating season.”

Secondary School in Stolin: “Prior to the replacement of windows it was very cold here and in
the entire school building. The temperature in my room used to be 5 degrees at the most. When
the windows had been replaced, it began to feel warmer. When the walls had been done, the
temperature in my room came up to 30 degrees - well, to 26 – 27 degrees, the way it should be in
the first-aid room. But before that it was very cold in my room… Also, it’s warm in the bedrooms
now, so the children can get good sleep. We maintain the proper temperature regime in there (up
to the 5th grade, students sleep in the school). So now we can work.”




                                              29
Annex 5-B: Photos from the Chernobyl affected area of Belarus: Project sites before and after
energy efficiency improvements

Below some photos of for the energy efficiency component: (i) boiler replacement, (ii) window
replacement, and (iii) lighting replacement.

                                    Boiler Replacement




   Old Boiler House in 2006              Modern gas-fired boiler house 2010




                                    Boiler Replacement




                                             30
                           Window Replacement




 Old Windows 2005                           New Windows 2010



                           Lighting Replacement




Old School Lighting 2005                    New School Lighting 2010




                                   31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(Not Applicable)




                                        32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1. Rationale for the Project and Bank Involvement

The Chernobyl accident affected approximately 2.5 million people of the 10.5 million population,
and about 20% of the area of Belarus. In addition to the economic hardships brought by the
transition to the whole post-soviet region, the people living in the Chernobyl affected areas of
Belarus had to deal with impacts of radioactive contamination, including health consequences and
related anxieties, depressed economic development and elevated levels of poverty. The
achievement of the main objective of rehabilitation – real economic recovery and sustainable
development – required the improved national approaches and international assistance. In the
context of economic constraints, the country needed to raise external loans to address the economic
and social problems. The Bank’s involvement was intended to strengthen a dialogue between the
Government and the Bank on the important issues in social and energy sectors in the Chernobyl
affected areas.

2. Project Development Objective

The Project aims to provide the population residing in the Chernobyl affected area with energy
efficient and reliable heat and hot water services in order to improve their living environment.

The Project contributed to the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) for FY02-
FY04 and FY08-FY11which aimed to improve the living standards of the Belarusian population
by addressing social and environmental risks that affect the most vulnerable population categories.
The Project also supported the CAS in areas involving energy efficiency and Global Public Goods,
where benefits can accrue not only to the Belarusian population, but to the rest of the world as
well. Improving living standards of the population and increasing energy efficiency in Belarus
remain major objectives of the World Bank Group ongoing Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
FY14-2017.

3. Project components

Component I: Energy Efficiency Improvements
(а) upgrading or replacement of communal heat production and distribution equipment including
replacement of old and inefficient boilers; replacement of old pipelines, modernization of heat
substations, replacement of building level heat regulation equipment and heat meters;
(b) improvement of thermal insulation including through replacement of windows, insulation or
replacement of walls and roofs, installation of new energy efficient lighting systems in public
buildings including hospitals, schools and other social institutions.

Component II: Residential Gas Connections
(а) extension of street pipes and connection to individual houses including installation of the
required equipment; and (b) installation of heating equipment inside individual houses including
heat boilers, gas cookers, gas meters and pressure regulators.

Component III: Project Implementation and Management Support

                                                 33
(а) design of the expected Project investments, public information campaign and supervision;
(b) financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and training.

                   Table 3. Actual Project Costs at Completion (US$ thousand)
  №       Project Components         Original        Additional    Original Loan +     Actual Costs
                                      Loan           Financing       Additional
                                                                     Financing
  А    Energy Efficiency Improvements

  1    Optimization of Heat          29,915           16,500            46,415            41,466
       Distribution Systems
  2    Replacement of Windows           8,760          6,800            15,560            31,174
       and Thermal Insulation of
       Buildings
  3    Installation of Energy-          8,782          1,600            10,382             6,693
       Efficient Light Fixtures

       Total                         47,457           24,900            72,357            79,333
  B    Residential Gas Connections
  1.   Residential Gas                  8,451          3,600            12,051            10,884
       Connections
       Total                            8,451          3,600            12,051            10,884
  С    Project Implementation and Management Support
  1    Technical Consultant’s           4,479          1,300            5,779              1,332
       Services
  2    Financial Audit                   80             60               140                   79
  3    Social Survey                     93             80               173                   28

  4    PMU Training                                                                            20

  5    PMU Costs                        279             60               339                   9
  6    Bank Commission                                                                         11
  7    Front End Fee                    125             75               200               200
       Total                            5,056          1,575            6,631              1,679
       TOTAL Project Costs           60,964           30,075            91,039            91,896




                                                34
                                 Table 4. Project Financing Plan (US$)
                                                                   Original Loan +
                          Original Loan    Additional Financing    Additional        Actual Costs
                                                                   Financing

                          10,964,000       75,000                  11,039,000        11,896,000
        Government
                          50,000,000       30,000,000              80,000,000        80,000,000
        World Bank
                          60,964,000       30,075,000              91,039,000        91,896,000
        TOTAL


4. Main Beneficiaries by Project Components

The main beneficiaries of the Project were the users of the social sector facilities: students,
teachers, patients, orphans, the elderly and disabled, and administrators and employees of the
institutions as well as residents of the districts located near the upgraded (retrofitted) heat supply
facilities. Secondary beneficiaries were regional and municipal governments and sector institutions
benefiting from the savings generated by reduced energy costs. Gas connection works were
performed in small towns and villages located near gas pipelines, and the beneficiaries were the
population of these communities.

               Table 5. Number of Beneficiaries by Oblasts and Components


                                       Mogilev           Gomel               Brest          Total

 Component 1 (boiler houses,
 co-generation units, heat
 supply networks, windows,             98,785            121,778            30,206         250,769
 thermal rehabilitation, light
 fixtures)
 Component 2 (gas                       2,238             1,611             1,156           5,005
 connections)

                                       101,023           123,389            31,362         255,774
 TOTAL

5. Project Preparation

The Project was the first step in the implementation of the findings of the Chernobyl Forum held in
September 2005 and emphasized the need to respond to the social and economic consequences of
the Chernobyl accident as a means to provide the confidence and support to the affected
communities to focus on improving their living environment. The Project activities were urgently
required given the deteriorated state of buildings and of energy infrastructure due to years of lack
of maintenance or replacement.

                                                    35
The Government requested the World Bank’s assistance in connecting individual houses to the
existing gas pipelines as a measure to avoid the burning of contaminated wood in individual house
stoves. Wood was widely used in Belarus as a domestic fuel, primarily in rural areas. Wood stoves
were used in 25% of houses located in small towns and in 75% of houses located in villages.
During the heating season (7 months) one household used 6-9 m3 of firewood which produces 69
kg of potentially contaminated ash.

Technical analysis: The Energy Efficiency Department (EED) collected and prioritized a list of
proposals for energy efficiency measures to be implemented in the social sector buildings. The
project included rehabilitation or replacement of old and worn out boilers in existing heating plants
with modern boilers, introduction of small scale combined heat and power plants, and replacing
windows, leaking roofs and roof insulation, and installation of energy efficient lighting in schools
and hospitals.

These investments were traditional and proven interventions that address inefficiencies and waste
that occur in old and outmoded heat supply systems. They were designed to provide direct benefits
in the form of better services to the consumers, and to improve efficiencies and reduce costs of
energy production. Belarus had traditionally undertaken gas supply projects and had the necessary
capacity to implement and supervise such activity. The Beltopgas State Production Association
and its affiliated gas supply organizations had the technical and staffing capacity to act as
Employers in the projects dealing with design, construction and reconstruction of gas supply
facilities.

Environmental Management Plan Implementation: The Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
was developed to address standard environmental aspects of energy efficiency improvements and
residential gas connections as well as potential radioactive impacts during the implementation of
the project activities in the Chernobyl affected areas of Belarus. The EMP requirements were
implemented as follows: (i) the technical part of a contract included environmental regulations and
standards that the Contractor was guided by in developing a detailed design, and (ii) construction
and rehabilitation of buildings was performed in accordance with a design approved under the
established procedure and in compliance with the environmental requirements, fire safety,
construction requirements, etc.

Detailed design included the section “Environmental Protection Activities” which aimed at: (i)
preventing adverse environmental impacts of the construction works; (ii) designating a site for
stockpiling (landfilling) construction and processing wastes, as well as the waste management
methods based on best available techniques; and (iii) removing, saving and using the fertile soil
layer during the construction works. Detailed design was subject to a state expert appraisal which
included environmental appraisal.

The environmental management and site territory improvement activities were subject to
supervision. At commissioning stage, the acceptance committee had access to opinions issued by
the state expert appraisal board and the environmental expert appraisal board, as well as the site
environmental passport (certificate).



                                                  36
The available technical regulatory framework of the Republic of Belarus addressing environmental
management activities makes the implementation of contracts and commissioning of facilities clear
and rules based. The Law of the Republic of Belarus No. 122-Z “On Radiation Safety of the
Population” dated January 5, 1998 facilitates implementation of a unified state policy in this area.
State agencies and organizations take action to ensure radiation safety within the bounds of their
competence as follows: (a) approve and carry into effect safety norms, rules and hygienic
standards; (b) exercise state safety supervision; (c) conduct radiation monitoring; (d) create a
unified state system for control and accounting of radiation doses received by individual members
of the public; and (e) ensure functioning and execution of state radiation safety programs.

6. Project Implementation

Implementation Arrangements: The Chernobyl Impact Mitigation Committee and after
Government re-organization its successor, the Department on Chernobyl Impact Mitigation of the
Ministry of Emergency Situations, was designated as the National Project Coordinator. The
Department was responsible for the general supervision and oversight of the Project activities,
coordination of the inputs of the republican government bodies, local executive and administrative
bodies and control of the targeted use of the loan. The coordinators (deputies) of the National
Coordinator were the representatives of the EED of the State Standardization Committee and of
the MoE.

The EED was responsible for the general implementation aspects of the Project, staffing and
provision of resources required for the implementation of the Project in accordance with the
Operational Manual. The EED had the necessary linkages to the ministries and Oblasts to
implement the project. The PMU, subordinate to the EED, was responsible for day-to-day
management of the Project, procurement of goods, works and services for energy efficiency
improvements and gas connection, compliance with environmental management plan, monitoring
and evaluation, and reporting to both the EED and the Bank. The PMU worked closely with the
staff of the local government and representatives of the sector ministries to ensure that the project
was implemented on time. A local engineer was hired to cover each oblast and to monitor, report
and supervise project progress and performance of contractors.

The PMU was supported by a coordinator from the MoE which retained the responsibility for
Component II: Residential Gas Connections. The MoE was responsible for the preparation of
design documentation of the residential gas connections and the technical specifications of the
bidding documents. The PMU’s responsibilities for the Residential Gas Connections component
were to organize the procurement and disbursement procedures in accordance with Bank
requirements. The MoE participated in the evaluation of bids for the Residential Gas Connections
component.

Issues during the implementation period: At the initial stages of implementation of Original Loan
the disbursement rates were low due to factors which led to delays in the tendering process,
cancellation of tenders and retendering such as:




                                                  37
   the bidders, who participated in Bank-supported projects for the first time, did not have
    experience in preparation and execution of contracts in accordance with the World Bank’s
    requirements, particularly in collaboration with the independent technical consultant
   low awareness of potential bidders (Belarusian and foreign) about the tenders including about
    the electronic and print media where the notifications about the tenders were published as
    well as about the specifics of ICBs held in accordance with the requirements of the World
    Bank’s standard bidding documents
   poor preparation of bids by the bidders who lacked experience of bid preparation in
    accordance with the World Bank’s rules

Thanks to several joint reviews of the implementation progress of the Original Loan by the Bank
and the Government, weaknesses affecting the implementation progress were identified and
addressed and the implementation was smooth and efficient.

Staff Development: PMU staff was financed by the Government at the salary rates prevailing in
the budget sector. The PMU management took efforts to improve staff motivation and incentives
and prevent staff turnover. Bonuses and increased additional pays (for example, for complexity
and intensity of work) were introduced. Given the increased work load, also due to the launch of
new project preparation, the PMU hired additional staff including procurement, financial
management/disbursement and technical specialists.

Involvement in three World Bank supported projects made it possible for the PMU to build an
adequate project implementation capacity and improve staff qualifications. In 2007 through to
2013, PMU specialists attended ten training courses and workshops organized by the World
Bank, which allowed them to improve their skills in financial management and procurement.
Over the past few years, the PMU staff, on request of the Bank and the Government, conducted
several workshops for staff of other PMUs for Bank-supported projects in other sectors.

Impact of Global Financial Crisis: The situation at the foreign exchange market in Belarus
worsened in 2011. Sharp depreciation of BYR against USD (1.5 times) adversely affected the
domestic bidders whose bids were in BYR. Part of equipment under these contracts was
expected to be imported; domestic contractors, who submitted their bids in the local currency,
were not able to honor their contracts due to the devaluation. The winning bidders refused to sign
contracts in BYR in accordance with the terms of their bids. In accordance with ICB rules, such
a refusal entails disqualification of bidders and forfeiture of the bid security. This situation
implied complications and delays in the Project implementation and disbursement of loan
proceeds.

On agreement with the Bank, these tenders were cancelled without disqualification of the bidders
refusing to sign contracts in BYR in accordance with the terms of their bids. The bidding
documents were revised to include the provision permitting local bidders to submit bids in
foreign currency with the contract to be signed in this currency with subsequent payment in BYR
at the official exchange rate of the National Bank of Belarus as of the payment date. An
invitation to bid was furnished to the same bidders who requested the bidding documents in the
original tender. The period allowed for the preparation of bids was shortened to 3 weeks instead
of standard 6 weeks.

                                               38
Another difficulty arose in tenders for works on window replacements and laying gas pipelines
conducted in accordance with an ICB procedure based on the Standard Bidding Documents
“Procurement of Works: Smaller Contracts”. The accepted procedures in Belarus do not provide
for submission of bids in foreign currency for ICBs. Therefore, it was impossible to introduce a
provision allowing local bidder to submit bids in foreign currency, as stated above. To solve this
problem, the Bank recommended the use the procedure of National Competitive Bidding which
made it possible to add the above-referred provision on the foreign currency to the bidding
documents.

7. Monitoring and Evaluation

In the PMU, monitoring of key project indicators was conducted by specialists from the technical
department through recording and analyzing data for the commissioned subprojects (capacity,
saved heat and electric power, length of installed gas pipelines, etc.). Information on the
monitored indicators was received from (i) the technical part of the bidding documents, (ii)
contracts, (iii) acceptance certificates, and (iv) employers (number of beneficiaries, number of
households connected to gas pipelines, etc.).The information was analyzed, aggregated and
furnished to the World Bank twice per year in the form of a cumulative report on the monitoring
indicators.

Table 6. Monitoring Indicators (cumulative from the beginning of the project)
                     Item                    Unit        End-Project Actual    End-Project Target

Estimated total number of                 Number              250,769               250,000
beneficiaries reached with improved
energy efficient services
Estimated amount of heat energy           MWh/year            248,736               158,000
saved annually
Estimated amount of electricity saved     MWh/year            99,487                12,800
annually*
Estimated reductions in pollutants        [tCO2e]             121,147               41,350
Total number of boiler houses             number                32                    33
renovated
Total number of buildings rehabilitated   number                443                   365
Total number of buildings with            number                145                   118
window replacement
Total number of buildings with            number                298                   247
lighting system replacement
Total number of houses connected to                            5,005                 4,000
                                          number
gas
Total length of street gas pipelines      Km                    219                   200
installed
* The target for electricity saved annually was surpassed because the method of calculation was
changed to take into account saving from new boiler-houses and pumps and not only lighting
fixtures.



                                                    39
Social Assessment by a sociological company SATIO: The survey of Component I: Energy
Efficiency Improvements in social sector institutions identified the following results:

   the microclimate in the majority of the facilities at which modernization took place changed
    for the better (no drafts, comfortable temperature, good lighting)
   as a result of window replacement, warmth is preserved, there are no drafts and good
    ventilation is secured
   the main effect from lighting replacement is the improvement of working conditions and
    electric energy saving
   repair of the facades is estimated positively, improvement of the conditions and comfort of
    the employees of the modernized institutions are also mentioned (constant temperature
    conditions, positive aesthetic effect)

The survey of Component II: Residential Gas Connections led to the following conclusions:

   more than 50% of households use natural gas as fuel; 99.2% of households use natural gas
    for cooking; almost all households (95.5%) are supplied with hot water;
   70% of households regard the annual expenditures on heating as moderate and affordable;
   main reasons for gas connection: warmth and cleanness in houses; gas is a cheaper fuel; gas
    connection was free;
   most households positively estimate the quality of works on installation of gas equipment
    and the equipment as such and are satisfied with installation of gas equipment in their
    houses;
   level of satisfaction with the use of gas as fuel and gas connection in general is high;
   level of household awareness about radiation risk associated with the use of ash and local
    solid fuels is fairly low (below 50%);
   about 1/3 of respondents estimate the costs of house preparation for gas connection as “very
    expensive” and “expensive” and many households needed financial support to equip a house
    for gas connection for heating and hot water supply;
   the main impediments for gas connection of households: no money, no time, a house is not
    suitable for gas connection.

Monitoring and Evaluation by RUE Belgosproject: The PMU requested the firm RUE
Belgosproject to conduct a technical survey of the investments undertaken under the project to
verify the energy and environmental benefits of the Project. The survey was conducted in
facilities that were in operation for at least one year. The survey confirmed the environmental
impact and energy efficiency targets suggests that PCRP objective – reduced energy
consumption and reduction of GHG emissions, improvement of comfort level for users of
health and education facilities and livelihoods in contaminated areas – has been achieved.

The annual savings of fuel and energy resources for the Original Loan and the Additional
Financing totaled 67.55 thousand tons of oil equivalent. The aggregate reduction of СО2
emissions is estimated at 127.43 thousand tons.




                                              40
                             Table 7. Achieved results by oblasts per year
                    Oblast                 Reduction in fuel and         Reduction of СО2
                                          energy consumption, toe         emissions, tons
               The Brest Oblast                   18,289                     33,462
               The Gomel Oblast                   31,721                     61,943
              The Mogilev Oblast                  17,541                     32,028
                    Belarus                       67,551                     127,433


                 Table 8. Achieved results by oblasts and the Project Components
                                                                                                  Residential Gas
                                          Energy Efficiency Improvements
                                                                                                   Connections
                                 Boiler
                                             Replacement of
                              houses, heat                                                      Length of    Number
        Oblast                                windows and
                              distribution                       Installation of energy-           gas          of
                                                 thermal
                               networks,                         efficient light fixtures       pipeline,    househo
                                              renovation of
                             co-generation                                                         km          lds
                                                buildings
                                  units
                 Toe            17,937             297                       55
The Brest
                СО2,                                                                              33.5           1,156
 Oblast                         32,825             542                       95
                tons
The Gomel        Toe            29,324            1,668                      729
                                                                                                  79.0           1,611
  Oblast       СО2, tons        57,645            3,053                     1 245
   The           Toe            16,180             801                       560
 Mogilev        СО2,                                                                             106.5           2,238
                                29,607            1,467                      955
  Oblast        tons
                 Toe            63,441            2,766                     1 344
  Belarus       СО2,                                                                              219            5,005
                               120,076            5,062                     2 295
                tons

The monitoring results for environmental and energy efficiency benefits from energy saving
activities for the entire Project broken down by Components are summarized in Tables 9, 10,
11and 12.

                                  Table 9. Rehabilitation of boiler houses
                                             The Gomel        The Mogilev           The Brest
            Item                 Unit                                                                    Total
                                               Oblast           Oblast               Oblast

  Number of renovated
                                  #             15                  14                 3                    32
      facilities


Annual amount of electric      thousand
                                              48,827            20,641               28,829              99,478
     energy saved                kWh




                                                     41
    Annual saving of
                                    Toe            27,507          15,434      16,813        59,754
     equivalent fuel

   Reduction of СО2
                                    Tons           50,342          28,248      30,767        109,357
      emissions


                                           Table 10. Window replacements
                                            The Gomel         The Mogilev   The Brest
         Item                Unit             Oblast            Oblast       Oblast          Total

Number of renovated
                              #                 64                57           18             139
    facilities
                                             44,477 m2                                     83,445 m2
Total area of windows                      (windows) and                                 (windows) and
                              m²                                32,200        6,768
 and doors replaced                        2,324 m2 (heat                                2,324 m2 (heat
                                          insulated walls)                              insulated walls)
 Annual amount of
                             Gcal             5341.9            2576.3        487.7         8405.9
 heat energy saved
  Annual saving of
                             Toe               13,96              704         209            2,309
   equivalent fuel

  Reduction of СО2
                             Tons              2,556             1,288        383            4,227
     emissions


                           Table 11. Installation of energy-efficient light fixtures

         Item                Unit           The Gomel         The Mogilev   The Brest        Total
                                              Oblast            Oblast       Oblast

Number of renovated
                               #                94               114           22             230
    facilities

   Total number of
   installed energy-           #              68,852            36,389       6,231         11,1472
efficient light fixtures

 Annual amount of           thousan
                                               1,257             963           95            2,313
electric energy saved        d kWh
  Annual saving of
                              toe               342              262           26             630
   equivalent fuel




                                                         42
        Item              Unit         The Gomel        The Mogilev   The Brest         Total
                                         Oblast           Oblast       Oblast

  Reduction of СО2
                          tons            587              448              44          1,080
     emissions


                                   Table 12. Residential gas connections

               Item                    The Gomel        The Mogilev   The Brest         Total
                                         Oblast           Oblast       Oblast


        Gas connections                    7                 9              3             19

 Length of street gas pipelines
                                           79               106             34           219
             (km)

 Number of houses (apartments)
                                         1,611             2,238           1,156        5,005
to be covered by gas connections



8. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment: The environmental protection measures were undertaken in strict compliance with
the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which was developed for the Project and consisted
of two sections. Section 1 of the EMP covered standard environmental aspects of the projects
describing energy efficiency improvements and residential gas connection activities. The safety
and environmental impact mitigation measures were included in the contracts. No environmental
problems were identified during the Project implementation and EMP requirements were
observed.

Section 2 of EMP – Radiation Management Plan – dealt with potential radiation impact during
the implementation of the proposed project activities in the Chernobyl affected areas of Belarus.
The Radiation Management Plan was prepared with the assistance of IAEA expert who had
worked in Belarus and other affected countries since the Chernobyl accident. Except the use of
potentially contaminated wood in wood burning boilers and disposal of ash, the proposed project
activities did not anticipate considerable radiation impacts and did not require additional
mitigation measures beyond routine measures. The main requirements of the impact mitigation
plans included the use of filtrating masks and water suppression of dust in order to minimize
even the low irradiation doses.

Procurement: Procurement for the proposed project was carried out in accordance with the
World Bank’s Guidelines “Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”
(dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006), Guidelines “Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits” (dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006) and the provisions stipulated in the

                                                   43
Legal Agreement. For each contract financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements and time frame were agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan was updated annually or as required to reflect the
actual project implementation needs.

Procurement of Works: Works included installation of new modern boilers or cogeneration
equipment, rehabilitation of heat distribution systems, replacement of windows, thermal
renovation of buildings, civil works for laying gas pipelines and installation of household
equipment. Procurements through competitive bidding for the performance of these works were
divided into lots at least by oblasts to expedite implementation and to enable local contractors to
meet the financial requirements.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under the Project included lighting equipment for the
public buildings and office equipment and furniture for PMU.

Procurement of Consulting Services: The following methods of selection of consultants were
used: (a) Quality and Cost Based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection procedure was used for
selection of an auditor to carry out the audit of the Project financial statements; (c) Selection
Based on Consultants’ Qualifications was used for contracting the technical consultant under the
Additional financing.

Issues in implementation of the procurement process and its impact on the project are described
under the section on implementation above.

Financial management: Budget planning for loan proceeds disbursements was done quarterly
and includes the following procedures: (i) preparation of the detailed procurement plan and
agreement with the World Bank; (ii) quarterly disaggregation of the budget based on payment
schedules endorsed by Director of the PMU and approval of EED; and (iv) the accounting
system allows to input and to produce information on all financial transactions under the loans.
The PMU prepares unaudited interim financial reports. In addition to daily internal control
procedures, appropriate use of funds was periodically inspected in accordance with the
Belarusian legislation. EED conducted random inspections to minimize the risk of improper use
of the Project funds. Financial audit was conducted annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank and selected on a competitive basis and their reports were submitted to
the Bank timely. All Project reports received the unqualified auditor’s opinion. Delayed
provision of co-financing and their reflection in PMU accounting records was highlighted. These
problems were resolved as confirmed by the auditor’s report for 2011.

9. Post-Completion Activities

Energy Efficiency Activities: In 2010 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus
adopted the Strategy of Energy Potential Development focused on (i) adoption of new energy
efficient technologies in all economic sectors and technological processes, and (ii) modernization
of the existing equipment with reduction of specific fuel consumption by 10% by 2015 and 15%
by 2020. The Law “On Energy Efficiency” has a set of the national, sector and regional energy

                                                44
saving programs and pursues a policy on improving efficient use of fuel and energy resources
and addressing organizational, technical, economic and regulatory challenges in priority areas of
energy saving.

The strategic objective in energy efficiency is the reduction of GDP energy intensity by 50% in
2015 relative to the 2005 level and by 60% - by 2020. Energy efficiency activities are reflected
in the Republican Energy Efficiency Program for 2011-2015 to be financed from: (i) enterprise
funds; (ii) republican budget; (iii) sector innovation funds; (iv) republican and regional energy
efficiency programs; (v) local budgets. Efforts to raise awareness about energy saving and gas
connection continue. Energy efficiency has become part of secondary education and pre-school
education curricula.

Activities for mitigation of the Chernobyl impacts: In 2010 the Council of Ministers approved
the State Program for 2011-2015 and until 2020 which aims to further reduce adverse health
impacts, shift focus toward sustainable socioeconomic development in compliance with the
radiation safety requirements. Residential gas connection is one of the priorities to reduce
radiation for households. It is intended to improve environmental situation through the use of
clean fuels. The State Program provides for gas connection of 21,019 houses (apartments) in the
period 2011-2015 and laying 2008.3 km of gas distribution networks. The respective funding
totals BYR 404 769.2 million.

Regulatory Framework: The framework documents addressing energy efficiency in the
Republic of Belarus are: (a) the Directive of the President of the Republic of Belarus of 14 June
2007 № 3 “Saving and economization are the key pillars of economic security of the state”
(National Register of Legal Acts of the Republic of Belarus, 2007, N 146, 1/8668); and (b) the
Edict of the President of the Republic of Belarus of 17 September 2007 N 433 “On Concept of
Energy Security of the Republic of Belarus”.

10. Achievement of Project Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating is based on the following: (a) the Project development objective has been met in full;
(b) the Project has been timely and relevant; (c) the Project has been properly implemented; and
(e) the efficiency targets have been achieved. At the end of the Project, the project indicators
were met and exceeded.

Social impact: (a) over 250,769 beneficiaries (local residents, personnel, patients, doctors,
schoolchildren, teachers, administrative personnel, etc.) reached with better-quality energy
efficient services; (b) improved comfort in 443 buildings due to replacement of windows and
lighting systems; (c) luminance increased from 200-300 lux to 500 lux and over in 298 buildings;
(d) improved living conditions in the heat supply area served by 32 renovated boiler houses; and
(e) improved living conditions in 5005 households (219 km of street gas pipelines installed) due
to connection to gas and installation of heating and hot water equipment.




                                               45
Energy Efficiency Impact: (a) Amount of saved electric power - 99,487MWh/year; (b) Amount
of saved heat – 248,736 MWh/year; (c) Amount of saved fuel – 62,695 toe; and (e) Reduction of
emissions (CO2) – 121,147 tons/year.

11. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design, implementation
and outcome issues)

Assessment of Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government was committed to the Project objectives at all stages of preparation and
implementation. The Project was a part of large-scale state program on energy efficiency.
Oversight and supervision of energy saving measures responsibilities rested with the EED, and
day-to-day operations of the Project were managed by the PMU. They coordinated the input of
the involved ministries, local and oblast authorities.

Assessment of Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The World Bank played an active role and provided helpful and efficient assistance at all stages
of the Project. The Bank experts are sufficiently qualified, experienced and skilled to help the
Borrower to achieve the agreed objectives. All questions were clarified at the high level. Actions
of the World Bank’s management have been very detailed and clear. World Bank team met with
the PMU and the Government officials on a regular basis. Efforts toward achieving the Project
objectives and addressing eventual problems have been timely and, in some cases, anticipatory.




                                               46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                         47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Project Concept Note (May 20, 2005)
2.  Project Appraisal Document (March 22, 2006)
3.  Loan Agreement (April 19, 2006)
4.  Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing Loan for the PCRP (August 26, 2010)
5.  Loan Agreement (Additional Financing for PCRP) (October 11, 2010)
6.  Environmental Analysis and Management Plan (August 2005; November 2009)
7.  Social Survey and Analysis (August and October 2005; October 2010; September 2013)
8.  Monitoring and Evaluation by RUE Belgosproject: A technical survey of the investments to
    verify the energy and environmental benefits (September 2013).
9. IAEA Radiological Management Plan (October 2005)
10. Project Operational Manual (2005; 2010)
11. Aide-memoires (spanning December 2004 through October 2013)
12. ISR Reports (numbers 1 through 14)
13. Country Assistance Strategies, FY02-04, February 2002; and FY08-11, 2007
14. Country Partnership Strategy, FY14-17, June 2013
15. European Commission: Optimal Management Routes for the Restoration of Territories
    Contaminated during and after the Chernobyl Accident, draft final report, March 1997
16. Chernobyl’s Legacy: Health, Environmental and Socio-Economic Aspects. Proceedings from
    the Chernobyl Forum, Vienna, Austria (September 2005).
17. Twenty-five Years after the Chernobyl Accident: National Report of the Republic of Belarus
    (2001)




                                             48
                                                                                                                  24°E                                         26°E                                           28°E                                                       30°E                                  32°E                                     34°E
                                          BELARUS
                        POST CHERNOBYL                                                                                                                             L AT V I A                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rezekne

                       RECOVERY PROJECT                                                        56°N
                                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56°N

                                                                                                                                                                                 Daugavpils                                                                       Nevel
                       CESIUM 137 CONTAMINATION LEVELS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BELARUS
                    1480 kBq/m2                        40 Ci/km2
                                                                                                                                                                                          Braslau
                     555 kBq/m2                        15 Ci/km2
                     185 kBq/m2                        5 Ci/km2
                                                                                                        LITHUANIA                                                                                                 Navapolack                      Poloysk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 zv
                      37 kBq/m2                        1 Ci/km2                                                                                                                                                                                                          oy av aD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       od         Vitebsk
                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                            Utena
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VITEBSK                             Za
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    kh
                                     EVACUATED AREA                                                                                                      To                       Postavy                  Hlybokae
                                                                                                                                                       Vilnius
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lepel                                                                  To
                                     DISTANCE FROM CHERNOBYL                                                                                                                                                                                              Casniki                                   Smolensk
                                     (in Kilometers)

                                              RUSSIAN
                                     SELECTED CITIES      FED.
                                                     AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                          Vilnius                                             Viliy
                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Orsha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN
                                     OBLAST' CAPITALS                                                                                                                              Vilejka
                                                                                                                                                                                   Molodechno                                                          Talacyn                                                      F E D E R AT I O N
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     To                                                                                                          Borisov                                                               Gorky
                                                                                                         Alytus                                                                                                                            Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r                                                                                                                54°N
                                     RIVERS                                                    54°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mogilev                            Roslavl
                                                                                                                                       Lida
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                    MINSK                                        Berazino
                                                                                                              Grodno                                     Ne
                                                                                                                                                              ma                                                                                                                                        Krichev
                                     RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOGILEV




                                                                                                                                                               n
                                     OBLAST' BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      zh
                                                                                                                                                                                      MINSK                                                                                             Slavharad          So
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kascjukovicy
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                 To
                                                                                           Bialystok
                                                                                                                  GRODNO                                                                                                              Osipovichi
                                                                                                                           Volkovysk
                                                                                                                                              Slonim                                                                                                        Bobruysk
                                                                                                                                                                   Baranovichi                                                                                                            Dovsk
                                                            22°E                                                                                                                                         Slutsk                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Klintsy
                                                                                            To                                                                                                                                                                        Zlobin                   Zabalocce
                                                                                         Bialystok
                                                                                                                                                Ivattsevichi                                            Soligorsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                           Bjaroza                                                                                                                       Svetlahorsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gomel'            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Klintsy
                                                                                                                                                BREST                                                                                                  GOMEL                Rechitsa
                52°N
                                            POLAND                                                                  Kobrin
                                                                                                                                                                                  Luninets             Micasevicy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dobrus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kalinkavicy
                                                                                                      Brest                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    52°N
                                                                                    To Biala                    Dneprovsko-                                        Pinsk                                                             yat                         Mozyr
                                                                                    Podlaska                   Bugskiy Canal                                                                               Turov              Prip                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hojniki                 Chernigov
                                                                                                                                                                                 Stolin
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                   To                         Sarny
                                                                                                                  Kovel'
                                                                                                      To                                                              To
                                                                                                     Chelm                                                           Sarny
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ovruch
                   0       25      50      75      100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                            20 0 K M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15 0 K M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10 0 K M

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POWER STATION
                   0            25            50          75 Miles
NOVEMBER 2005




                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UKRAINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 34361
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KIEV
                                                   22°E                                               24°E                                             26°E                                                   28°E                                                                                                         32°E
