              Document of
           The World Bank




                                       Report No: 29347




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    (TF-20907 SCL-41540 PPFB-P3080)

                ON A

                LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF DM 30.4 MILLION

               TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                FOR A

     WELFARE REFORM PROJECT




              June 5, 2004

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 27, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Lat
                                    1 Lat = US$ 1.83
                                   US$ 1 = Lats 0.55

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 Jan 1     Dec 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     --  Country Assistance Strategy
CPI     --  Consumer Price Index
ECA     --  Europe and Central Asia Region (World Bank)
EU      --  European Union
FCMC    --  Financial Capital Market Comission
GDP     --  Gross Domestic Product
GMI     --  Guaranteed Minimum Income
IFI     --  International Financial Institution
IT      --  Information Technology
IMF     --  International Monetary Fund
LVL     --  Latvian Lat (currency)
LWRP    --  Latvia Welfare Reform Project
MOF     --  Ministry of Finance
MOW     --  Ministry of Welfare
NDC     --  Notional Defined Contributions
OED     --  Operations Evaluation Department (World Bank)
PCU     --  Project Coordination Unit
PSR     --  Project Status Report
SPRP    --  Social Policy Research Program
PAYG    --  Pay-as-you-Go
PHRD    --  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SAD     --  Social Assistance Department (Ministry of Welfare)
SID     --  Social Insurance Department (Ministry of Welfare)
SIDA    --  Swedish International Development Agency
SPSS    --  Statistical Package for Social Sciences
SSIA    --  State Social Insurance Agency
SSIF    --  State Social Insurance Fund
SOE     --  Statement of Expenditure
TOR     --  Terms of Reference
UKKHF   --  UK Know How Fund
UNDP    --  United Nations Development Program
USD     --  United States Dollar
Y2K     --  Year 2000 (issue with global software systems adjustment to 1/1/2000)

                          Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director:      Roger Grawe

Sector Director/Sector Manager:  Charles Griffin/Hermann A. Von Gersdorff
                  Team Leader:   Inguna Dobraja
               ICR Task Team:     Philip S. Goldman/Lilita Sparane

                                           LATVIA
                              WELFARE REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P035807                                                  Project Name: WELFARE REFORM
Team Leader: Inguna Dobraja                                          TL Unit: ECCU7
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 11, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: WELFARE REFORM                                           L/C/TF Number: TF-20907; SCL-41540;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3080
   Country/Department: LATVIA                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (80%);
                            Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings (10%);
                            Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring
                            (P); Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P); Social risk
                            reduction (S); Other human development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/27/1995                                     Effective: 10/14/1997                01/13/1998
     Appraisal: 02/12/1997                                         MTR: 02/17/2000                  10/09/2000
      Approval: 05/06/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/MINISTRY OF WELFARE; REPUBLIC OF
                                           LATVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/STATE SOCIAL
                                           INSURANCE FUND (AGENCY); REPUBLIC OF LATVIA/KANDAVA
                                           MUNICIPALITY.
                      Other Partners:      GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN (SIDA); UNDP; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           NETHERLANDS, GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN (PHRD),UK KNOW-HOW
                                           FUND.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Roger W. Grawe                                 Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Michal J. Rutkowski                            Thomas Blinkhorn
Team Leader at ICR:             Inguna Dobraja                                 Louise Fox
ICR Primary Author:             Philip S. Goldman


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                              Quality at Entry:                         S
                   Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

        At the time of project identification and preparation, Latvia had a limited track record as
an independent sovereign nation, and was also a new Bank borrower. Social insurance and
assistance reform was a high policy priority for the Government, given the substantial fiscal,
structural and social issues faced by Latvia during the early transition period. The Government
did engage in a relatively aggressive structural adjustment program, and succeeded quickly in
achieving some macro-economic stability, price liberalization, and privatization of small
enterprises and the agricultural sector. However, the pension system costs were skyrocketing,
from an estimated 5.5 percent of GDP in 1985 to 10.4 percent of GDP in 1994. This was
compounded by high social insurance contribution rates (38 percent), which reduced labor
competitiveness and encouraged system evasion. National unemployment (official) was roughly 6
percent, but there were areas of significantly higher unemployment, and targeting of scarce social
protection resources became a Government priority.

        Drawing on the support of Latvia Welfare Reform Project preparation teams and
resources, the Government submitted a policy paper to Parliament in 1994 that proposed a major
program to address the social insurance system's costs, inequities, lack of flexibility, and
non-transparency. This was followed by the adoption in 1995 of a comprehensive package of
legislation covering social assistance, pension benefits, social insurance financing, unemployment
benefits, and other transfer programs. The Government's adoption of a three pillar strategy for
social insurance that incorporated a notional defined contributions design relying on individual
savings was in line with 'best practice' at the time, and was projected to substantially reduce
system deficits while facilitating capital market development. Latvia's new policy also quickly
moved away from a state-centric model of social welfare provision, embracing a decentralized
social assistance and community social services strategy that promoted local accountability, and
which the LWRP aimed to support.

        The objective of the Welfare Reform Project was to support the development of a more
efficient and effective social welfare system. As a result of the policy reforms that had been
approved but not yet implemented, as well as those to be developed and implemented during the
project period, Latvia was expected to establish a modern, fully affordable social insurance and
old-age security system. Progress in achieving this objective was to be evaluated on the basis of
the following: (a) evidence of the improved financial health of the social insurance system
resulting from successful implementation of the Government's reform program; (b) a
client-oriented social insurance administration under implementation, measured by improvements
in cost-efficiency, processing speed and accuracy, improved external accountability and
transparency, effective internal monitoring and evaluation, uniform handling of legislation and
good client service, and flexibility to introduce new regulations; (c) private pension plans in place
that are professionally supervised, financially stable, and viewed by the public as a viable savings
alternative; (d) evidence of more efficient and effective delivery of social assistance, including an



                                                  - 2 -

increase in the number of clients of programs that provide alternatives to institutionalization of
vulnerable groups; (e) high quality and professional policy monitoring and evaluation the norm,
with Government and Parliament using applied social policy research outputs in their work; and
(f) efficient and timely project implementation.

        These objectives were consistent with the Government's economic reform program (as
reflected, for example, in the comprehensive array of legislation that had been prepared and
implemented, as well as in pre-project Government documentation such as the White Paper on
Social Assistance and the business plans for the social insurance and social assistance agencies).
The objectives were also in line with the Latvia Country Assistance Strategy (1994, Report No.
13424-LV), which highlighted the three priority areas of private sector development, improved
public infrastructure, and strengthened social safety nets and social service delivery.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The development objective of this operation did not change during the project period.

3.3 Original Components:

There were five original project components:

                1. Social Insurance Development (US$32.2 million equivalent) -- The objective
        of this component was to help reform and modernize the Ministry of Welfare's Social
        Insurance Fund by supporting (i) a flexible and efficient system for managing social
        insurance; (ii) the capacity of the social insurance administration to manage the social
        insurance budget under the forthcoming reforms, including the development of core skills
        for system personnel; (iii) a client orientation, by developing during project preparation a
        pilot in a branch office at Ziemelu to demonstrate new ways of providing service,
        evaluating the pilot, and expanding its positive elements to other offices during project
        implementation; and (iv) improved accountability and transparency through better
        reporting and handling of information, clearer lines of managerial and financial
        subordination, and improved control mechanisms. The reform program included four
        subcomponents focused on (a) improving policy design (including implementation of a
        Social Insurance Department Business Plan); (b) developing system administration
        (including improved contribution recording and benefit administration); (c) support to
        organizational change (including project planning and management, financial management,
        communications, human resources development, and introduction of an object oriented
        database); and (d) support to information technology (including a new technology
        platform, telecommunications and networking, and information/programming).

                2. Regulation of Privately Managed Pensions (US$0.4 million equivalent)--
        The objective of this component was to support the provision of safe and supervised
        options for the Latvian public to make personal provisions for retirement through
        privately-managed savings schemes. The reform program included four subcomponents
        focused on (a) legislative development (including TA and training to support monitoring
        and evaluation of the private pension law); (b) system supervision (including human


                                                   - 3 -

resources, procedural manuals, introduction of new accounting standards, and
implementation of an automation plan); (c) training in new methods (for accountants,
auditors, asset managers, fund managers, and others); and (d) implementation of a
communications strategy.

         3. Social Assistance Administration (US$2.9 million equivalent) -- The
objective of this component was to ensure that all needy receive effective and efficient
social services. The project aimed to improve the performance of the Ministry of Welfare
Social Assistance Department in developing social assistance policy, and the municipalities
in delivering local level services. A pilot social assistance office in Kandava was to be
supported to develop best practice in service delivery, and disseminate lessons learned
throughout Latvia. The reform program included three subcomponents focused on (a)
improved social assistance policy development and implementation (including support for
legislative development, and implementation of a business plan for social assistance); (b)
development of the Kandava pilot (which would consolidate social benefit services
through a 'one-stop shop' with a benefit information and payment department, a home care
program, a program to support families at risk, a day center for the elderly, and a day
center to provide rehabilitation support to the handicapped, and to support training for
home care givers); and (c) evaluation and dissemination of the Kandava pilot results
(including development of a case monitoring system, annual conferences to review the
pilot, a mid-term and final evaluation including a replication plan).

         4. Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy (US$1.9 million equivalent) --
The objective of this component was to ensure that Government, Parliament and society
are regularly informed about the impact of social policies by developing adequate
organizational potential, and human and material resources in the Ministry of Welfare to
design, implement, monitor and evaluate social policy. The component aimed to support
the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Ministry of Welfare
social policy agenda. It sought to improve the allocation of human and financial resources
within the Ministry through improved internal and external organization and
communication. The component also aimed to strengthen the capacity to develop a
workable social policy strategy. The reform program included four subcomponents
focused on (a) improving local monitoring, including a data needs assessment,
development of standardized procedures to manage information, and evaluation and
dissemination; (b) production of an annual report on social policy for Government,
Parliament and the public; (c) development of analytical capacity, including a training and
technical assistance program for users of the new household survey; and (d) support to a
social policy research program which would fund competitively selected research
proposals in applied social policy analysis.

         5. Project Coordination (US$1.2 million equivalent) -- The objective of this
component was to support the effective provision of support and efficient management of
the project in order to achieve the Welfare Reform Project goals. It accordingly provided
technical assistance and training to the Project Coordination Unit.




                                         - 4 -

        The design of all five components was closely linked to the objectives described above,
cross referencing each of the five agreed sub-objectives. The project design twinned policy
reforms with intensive capacity building of the line agencies, so that Latvia would be able to stand
on its own after project implementation. The 'lessons learned' from Bank interventions in Latvia
that would inform the project design were at the time limited to the Rehabilitation Loan (FY96),
which highlighted the importance of sustained Government commitment to policy reform,
qualified procurement and disbursement advisers, and the need for higher than average resources
when dealing with new borrowers. The project therefore drew on and articulated global lessons,
including the need for a supportive policy framework, a high degree of local ownership, and well
prepared implementation plans with clear and monitorable goals.

3.4 Revised Components:


        The components of this operation were not revised during the project period.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (i) consistency of the project
objectives with the country's priorities for fiscal adjustment and social welfare, as well as with the
Country Assistance Strategy; (ii) implementation of an intensive pre-project program of policy
support, especially in the areas of social insurance and private pensions, with a well targeted array
of technical reports on pension policy, regulatory issues, and administrative strengthening; (iii)
ownership by the counterparts of the policy agenda and the related project strategy, evidenced in
part by the submission and passage of the aforementioned comprehensive legislative package; (iv)
utilization of highly consultative preparation tools such as stakeholder workshops (Team
Technologies), which were relatively new innovations for the Bank at the time; (v)
implementation of a pilot approach for this new Borrower, as reflected in the development and
evaluation of the Ziemelu social insurance office pilot and the Kandava social assistance pilot
approach; and (vi) careful attention to developing the capacity of the implementing agencies,
including the Project Coordination Unit.

    It is particularly important to highlight the extensive training and technical assistance support
that was provided by the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) for the social
services activities, of the UNDP/Netherlands for the policy development component, and of the
UK Know-How Fund for private pensions. This assistance was not only substantial in size
relative to the project's costs, but was also well-formulated, and was ultimately successfully
implemented with few changes from the original design. Overall project complexity appeared
manageable with respect to the number of policy and institutional improvements incorporated,
limited number of cofinanciers, and reasonable focused set of counterpart agencies.

    The project documentation was well presented, and backed up by a comprehensive project file
with supporting technical documents. The strategy and activity plans were well-prioritized and
sequenced. However, the pre-project preparation of a detailed technical platform and business
plan for the information technology and administration activities might have led to an
over-estimation of the Borrower's capacity to implement those parts of the operation. In
retrospect, the project might have built up more support to the client for oversight of the IT


                                                  - 5 -

subcomponents.

    The project was one of the first in the Bank to utilize a LogFrame approach, and the
indicators were largely developed by the counterparts during the preparation workshops. While
this strengthened ownership, many indicators were broadly formulated and qualitative, and would
prove difficult to quantify and track during the project period. Some of the indicators were later
modified by the Bank team during the mid-term review, which showed some flexibility in adapting
the project monitoring plan to changes in project strategy as well as in the implementing
institutions themselves. Also, while the project analyses projected likely fiscal benefits from social
insurance reform, these were not incorporated in the project monitoring plan. However, the
project did include activities to strengthen the Government's ability to design, implement, and
monitor social policy, and coupled improved data supply with support to data users (e.g., the
annual social report exercise).

                                               Box 1: The Introduction of Pension Reform in Latvia

  In 1995, Latvia initiated a parametric reform of its Pay-as-you-Go (PAYG) pension system, replacing it with a system
 of 'notional defined contributions' (NDCs) that was initially pioneered in Sweden. This social insurance reform took
 place in a turbulent social and political environment characteristic of most countries in transition, and was all the more
 striking in that it was designed and implemented by a new polity fresh from independence from the Soviet Union, but
 also largely inexperienced in policymaking.

   At the same time, there were clear signals that reform was needed. Expenditures on pensions roughly doubled in
 Latvia from 1985 to 1994, reaching 10.4 percent of GDP (OECD average in 1995 was 6.9 percent). This fiscal burden
 was coupled by high payroll contribution rates (38 percent). These had a negative impact on work incentives, and
 discouraged participation in the system.

  Latvia's reform was based on three inter-related objectives. First, it aimed to link benefits to contributions with a
 funded tier. Second, it sought to reduce social tax rates, while moving non-contributory benefits out of the system.
 Third, it addressed related benefit issues concerning sick leave, occupational injury, and employment benefits.

  The pension concept was to (i) modify the state PAYGO system to link contributions to benefits, while ensuring a
 minimum pension to protect the poor; (ii) introduce a second tier of a mandatory funded system of privately managed
 accounts; and (iii) support a third tier of voluntary privately managed pensions, primarily through employer plans.

   The PAYG reform 'notional accounts' were a particularly important dimension of the reform. A portion of each
 participant's contribution would be recorded in an individual account, which would be indexed in accordance with
 the growth in the contribution wage base. At retirement, the total in this 'notional' account would be paid as a part
 of the monthly pension in accordance with an actuarial assessment of life expectancy at the age of retirement. This
 means that later retirement would lead to a higher monthly pension (standard retirement is 60 for men and 55 for
 women). Each awarded pension would then be indexed in accordance with prices.

  While the reform came under some political pressures in 1999/2000, there have been significant results. From 1996
 to 2003, social insurance expenditures as a percent of GDP fell from 12.0 percent to 9.5 percent. Almost 500,000
 Latvians have been participating in the second tier. The average old age pension has also increased from LVL38.3
 to LVL65.2, greatly increasing the adequacy of the pension levels granted. In 2003, the system ran a surplus of
 LVL 18.3 million. The authorities are utilizing a sophisticated social insurance business model developed with
 project support to continue to track the pension system's current and projected performance.

 See: Louise Fox and Edward Palmer, "Latvian Pension Reform," August 1999.




                                                          - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        The Latvia Welfare Reform Project has an unusual results pattern, whereby many of the
activities with relatively low levels of financing ended up having the most important development
outcomes. Today, Latvia has developed a self-standing and professional policymaking apparatus
in the areas of social welfare and social insurance, and Government counterparts attribute this in
large part to the support provided under the Welfare Reform Project. A multi-pillar pension
reform continues to be implemented, and the new system is generating fiscal surpluses as well as
increases in participation in the second and third tiers (see below). New community social service
models have been developed, and social assistance targeting continues to be refined.

        One portion of this project's financing was directed at supporting improved system
administration activities that did not materialize due to contractual issues between the
Government and the key vendor that could never be resolved, and eventually a portion of the
Bank loan was cancelled. Still, the project did lead to major efficiencies and improvements in
client service -- processing turnarounds are a fraction of past levels, social insurance offices have
been completely restructured and modernized, and social insurance staff are trained and using
their new skills in their work. From a client perspective, service standards are extremely high (see
below). The outstanding and continuing problem is that the system is relying on two 'back room'
information technology platforms -- one the old platform, which is still used for some calculations,
and the second the incomplete new platform prepared under the project. The authorities are still
working intensively to complete the transition to the new platform, which should lead to the
projected back room efficiencies.

        Latvia's social policy and administrative institutions are well prepared for the country's
recent accession to the European Union. The project played a key role in providing the support
needed to get to this level. The fiscal impacts of the pension reform are multiples of the project
cost (see section 4.3). When combined with the policy achievements, this project outcome has
been rated as highly satisfactory, even if some project activities still remain to be completed and
some sector policy issues remain to be addressed.

        All findings and ratings in this report were discussed intensively during a day-long Latvia
Welfare Reform Project completion workshop on June 1, 2004. During the workshop, a number
of principal counterparts reported on the project issues and outcomes, and the Bank also
presented its initial report findings. Participants also submitted their own ratings in each area by
anonymous ballot (they were informed at each stage of Bank guidelines and criteria for each
rating). That direct feedback was incorporated in this final report. The list of participants is
presented in Section 10.

Component A: Social Insurance Development

        The component outcome objectives to improve social insurance system affordability,
improve client satisfaction, and inform residents on rights and responsibilities under social



                                                  - 7 -

insurance, have been fully achieved. The component outcome objective to reduce the standard
service cost by 20 percent per benefit or contribution has not been fully achieved (see below).
The overall component outcome is rated highly satisfactory.

        As noted in Annex 3 and section 4.3, the affordability of the social insurance system was
greatly strengthened by the legislative package that was prepared with project support, and
eventually adopted and implemented in Latvia (see Box 1). System expenditures have fallen by
2.5 percent of GDP, the pension system is in surplus, and average pension levels have been
increasing, a remarkable result for any national social insurance system. Standard service costs
have been reduced from LVL 0.67 to LVL 0.59, or 12.5 percent. Independent sociological
surveys showed that roughly 80 percent of clients were satisfied with performance of the SSIA
system in 2001 (a non-comparable in-house survey showed a client satisfaction rate of 92 percent
in 2003).

        The social insurance administrative activities were mixed. Successes included (i) the
transfer of social insurance collections to the State Revenue Service in 1998; (ii) implementation
of a modern and client friendly office network (see Box 2); (iii) reductions in benefit processing
times from two weeks to less than one day; (iv) reductions in standard service costs by 12.5
percent from 1999-2003, less than the projected 14 percent, but reflecting a central
administrative staff reduction from 325 to 245; (v) implementation of a new accounting system (
SunSystems) and development of an accounting manual, which is resulting in accounting
efficiency, full integration and security of data, and partial compliance with international
accounting standards; (vi) development of staff and training manuals, and training of staff
undertaken; (vii) implementation of a successful two phase public information campaign timed to
cover the overall reform as well as the funded pension elements, and launching of a monthly
internal staff newsletter SAzina in 1996; and (viii) numerous improvements in organizational and
work flow arrangements, and strengthened capacity to analyze social insurance policy and to
prepare effective budgets. The Social Insurance Department also has carefully differentiated
between different contribution rate tiers in order to link contributions to specific benefits (state
pension budget, employment budget, disability, maternity and sickness).

        However, the social insurance information technology activities were not fully completed
during the project period. The Information Technology Center was established in 1997, and the
historical database, data extraction, and storage processes were developed. Local networks have
been installed in the territorial offices, with all connected to the National Data Transmission
Network in 1999. An SP/2 server was procured in 1998 that hosts the new Social Insurance
Information System, database (production environment), audit databases, the acceptance testing
environment, and three development testing environments. The information security and
protection strategy has been developed and implemented (administrative procedures, staff training
on information security, perimeter protection, individual personal computer protection, and
firewalls). This did not lead to a complete migration to the new system. A disagreement
between SSIA and the contractor on the contract terms and performance expectations arose
mid-way through project supervision, and this dispute was settled between both parties in 2003
with the final work still uncompleted. It is important to note that (i) at no point was there any
time where consumers were not served, or where benefits and services were not provided; and (ii)



                                                    - 8 -

in many ways, the SSIA responded aggressively to the contract failure by strengthening its own
capacity to analyze and address issues related to information technology.

        The SSIA has accordingly implemented the Social Insurance Information System Project,
and are continuing the automation work (with in-house staff as well as consultants) covering
central databases, system core, personal data, classificators, filing, and information at the
individual record level. This work appears to be moving in a positive direction: there is a real
time on-line connection to the Resident's Register established, linkages with the State Revenue
Service (though with some data quality issues), and data processing of the Contributions and
Funded Pensions systems is being realized. SSIA anticipates that another two years of work will
be necessary before the new system is completed.


Component B: Regulation of Privately Managed Pensions

        The component outcome objective ("private pension plans viewed by public as viable
savings alternative") has been achieved, and the component outcome is rated satisfactory. By
June 20, 2003, 402,576 Latvian residents had joined the second-tier pension scheme, an increase
from 298,213 a year earlier. Net assets of the state funded pension scheme rose 45 percent from
mid-2002 to mid-2003. Most of these assets have been placed in debt securities (79 percent) or
deposits with credit institutions (20 percent). Five percent of investments were placed
internationally. Assets have grown substantially faster than GDP growth, albeit from a low initial
starting point. The unified Financial Capital Markets Commission was established under a parallel
PSAL arrangement, and appears to be working effectively.

Table: Participants in Second and Third-tier Pension System
                Item                           June 30, 2002                    June 30, 2003
 Number of private pension funds                     4                                5
   of which open pension funds                       3                                4
   of which closed pension funds                     1                                1
 Number of pension plans                             8                               12
Number of participants in private                  18,595                26,610 (December 31, 2003)
pension funds
 Number of managers of state funded
second tier pension scheme assets                    3                                6
 Number of investment plans
provided by the managers of
state-funded pension scheme assets                   1                               12
 Number of participants in
state-funded pension scheme                       298,313                          402,576
Source: State Social Insurance Agency


        Latvia's legislative reform, and the introduction of a comprehensive regulatory and
supervisory framework, has resulted in licensing of six private pension funds, offering a combined
total of fifteen pension plans to participants (there are 12 options for those in the state-funded
scheme). Pension fund assets have begun to grow quickly (by 42 percent from mid-2002 to
mid-2003), and the level of contributions rose by roughly 24 percent over the same period. As in



                                                   - 9 -

other countries with developing financial markets in the region that are pursuing multi-pillar
pension reforms, investments by the funds have primarily been in debt securities (68 percent of
total investments), and are mostly domestically place (13 percent of assets are placed
internationally). Most plan participants are joining through their employers (97 percent). These
plans have already begun to pay pensions to a small number of new retirees (at a level of Ls
155,000 in the first half of 2003).

Table: Financial Information on Private Pension Funds and State-Funded Pension Scheme
                Item                          June 30, 2002                     June 30, 2003
Private Pension Funds: total assets             13,288,412                        18,342,505
(Lats)                                          11,735,255                        16,692,668
 Assets of Pension Plans
Administrative expenses (Lats)                    172,180                          208,928
Administrative expenses (percent                   1.3%                             1.1%
total assets)
State Funded Pension Scheme Assets              12,293,008                        17,847,591
(Lats)

         Despite these impressive achievements, the challenges of strengthening privately managed
pension schemes remain. The level of funds invested (0.43 percent of GDP in 2002) falls short of
the originally envisaged 1 percent of GDP, in part because of the relatively small contribution
level directed to the second tier. While institutional investors have developed a great deal of
capital market experience, equities still represent a small percentage of the consolidated pension
funds' portfolio. This is in part the result of still immature equity markets -- many listed
companies have either failed, or have been purchased by strategic investors and taken off of the
exchanges. The corporate sector is largely relying on the banking system as the main source of
credit and investment resources. As equity markets mature, there is no reason to expect
institutional investors (including pension funds) to spot and exploit related investment
opportunities. Assets under management will also increase as the contribution rates for the
second tier are incrementally increased over the next six years (from 2 percent currently to 10
percent in 2010).


Component C: Social Assistance Administration

         This component achieved its outcome objectives to (i) introduce a streamlined benefit
system; (ii) introduce central dissemination of best practice in social assistance delivery that is
supportive of community-based programs to help the poor and vulnerable; and (iii) raise client
satisfaction levels. It was partially successful in reducing recurrent costs per person at the
Kandava social services pilot to a level below services provided by residential institutions on a per
capita basis. It was not successful in establishing a new financing scheme for community services.
The overall component outcome is rated as satisfactory.

         In 2002/2003, Latvia drew on a number of project technical analyses and consultations to
reform its fragmented and poorly targeted social assistance system, and reduced the different
benefits into a single Guaranteed Minimum Income (GMI). The GMI is targeted to the lowest
income groups, and is based on an income and asset test. The effectiveness of this new system


                                                   - 10 -

has not yet been assessed, though the system it replaces was quite poor at targeting cash
assistance resources according to several technical assessments, and a GMI pilot demonstrated
improved targeting over the old approach. The Ministry of Welfare has been working intensively
to provide methodological support to the municipalities administering the new scheme. Latvia's
authorities are now working on a national action plan to achieve the poverty and social exclusion
objectives of the Lisbon Council and subsequent European meetings, which have laid out ten
primary and eight secondary indicators for monitoring country progress.

        Latvia has taken an important step forward in the shift from cash based assistance
programs to services that focus on individual, family and community needs. The Kandava social
assistance pilot project was fully implemented, and provides a high quality level of service delivery
across five areas (2002 data): information and benefits (hundreds of clients across different
benefit programs), rehabilitation (36 clients), family support (48 clients), day center (30 clients),
and home help (51 clients). The pilot has been the subject of a baseline evaluation, a mid-term
evaluation in 2000, and a final evaluation in December 2002. A case management system was
introduced in mid-2002. Overall, the pilot represents the first establishment of a 'one stop shop'
for social services in Latvia, and has been able to pioneer client tailored interventions as well as
close collaborations with local NGOs such as the Disabled Association, the Pensioners Council,
and the Red Cross. The Kandava pilot is the subject of regular and frequent visits from central
and local officials across Latvia, many of whom are making attempts to replicate various
dimensions of the pilot's service approach. No municipality has yet chosen to establish the full
array of comparable services, due to the investment costs involved. However, it was noted that
EU structural funds might be utilized by some municipalities to strengthen social service delivery
along the lines envisaged under the Kandava pilot.

        It proved difficult to undertake a proper cost effectiveness evaluation that would show a
recurrent cost reduction per client as compared to residential institutions. This is because the data
was not comparable between the two types of services -- residential institutions do not provide
cash benefits, for example. This outcome indicator is therefore not monitorable. However, the
2002 evaluation did evaluate the per client costs of Kandava per service delivered (which range
from roughly LVL 28 to LVL 100 per month per benefit/client), and presented recommendations
on areas where per client costs might be reduced through better management. For example, it
appears that cash benefit administration is more expensive than reference municipalities, but this
may be because that unit also provides support services not found in other municipalities (which
are often limited to processing benefit paperwork, and which do not engage in referrals).
Legislation to support a shift to community based services through financing reforms was never
prepared, but the Council of Ministers did support the approach on March 12, 2002, with
implementation to be achieved in 2005. The delay appears in part to be related to the broader
issues related to territorial-administrative reform, and the capacity of the municipalities to
implement this proposed change in financing arrangements. Parallel efforts have been made to
improve gatekeeping and eligibility criteria to reduce the flow of individuals into institutions.
Kandava is planning to expand the geographic area of service delivery to offer home care and
training to neighboring municipalities.

        It is noteworthy that since the opening of the pilot, no referrals have been made from



                                                  - 11 -

Kandava to residential institutions. Indeed, some institutionalized children have been returned to
foster families who have received specialized training in appropriate care.

        Client satisfaction was measured in 2000 and 2002. Kandava's pilot scored high on most
measures (e.g., 88 percent of employees were rated kind and respectful, 69 percent viewed work
as well organized, 95 percent viewed the assistance received as very important or important). The
evaluation also showed that the percentage of those viewing social assistance as a stigma has
increased quickly (from 29 percent to 40 percent), and an increase in both those who viewed
benefit eligibility criteria as fair (from 29 percent to 40 percent) as well as unfair (from 27 percent
to 35 percent). There was a sharp increase in the numbers of those who appear less willing to
seek assistance across almost all areas, which likely reflects a shift in social values as well as an
increase in national income as the country approached accession.

Component D: Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy

        The component achieved its outcome objective to make 'high quality policy monitoring
and evaluation' the norm, and is rated as highly satisfactory. The authorities continue to utilize
the household survey approach developed during project preparation to monitor trends in
household incomes, expenditures, and behavior, and this data is being used to inform the
development and presentation of policy. Staff received, and continue to utilize, years of training
in applied policy analysis, data analysis and dissemination, and the policy departments were
outfitted and trained in Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS). Five Annual Social
Reports have already been prepared, and numerous studies were contracted under the Social
Policy Research Program. The Social Reports were disseminated and discussed at an array of
workshops, conferences, and press events during the project period.

Component E: Project Coordination

        While no component outcome objectives were specified at appraisal, the project was
successfully implemented, with procurement and financial management responsibility eventually
shifted from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to the Ministry of Welfare and State Social
Insurance Agency. No major fiduciary issues were flagged during the entire project period, and
all audits were on time. Ministry staff appeared pleased that a number of highly trained PCU staff
are presently working for the Ministry and SSIF. The outcome of this component is therefore
rated as highly satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:

The Welfare Reform Project had the following outputs by component.

Component A: Social Insurance Development (US$26.41 million PAD*, US$26.81 million
actual). This component outputs are rated satisfactory. Project activities led to (i) the new
multi-pillar legislation, which is being successfully implemented; (ii) the design, programming and
development, and utilization of a social insurance budget model for short to long term forecasting
of fiscal and social measures connected to setting pension system baselines and reviewing policy


                                                  - 12 -

options; (iii) transfer of social tax collections to the State Revenue Service, which rationalized tax
collection procedures while reducing the burden on the private sector of two separate collection
agencies; (iv) a complete overhaul of local social insurance offices leading to high standards of
client service; (v) increased transparency through numerous measures, from regular statistical
bulletins from the Social Insurance Department to individual level pension statements being
mailed annually to system participants; (vi) related, an intensive public information campaign
covering television, radio, and print media, which many officials credit for the success of the
reform to date; (vii) numerous technical analyses, many of which were reviewed by Bank
supervision missions and evaluated as being of high quality; (viii) successful Y2K mitigation; (ix)
partial but unsuccessful preparation of the new IT platform, with efforts now underway to
complete this project activity.


                                         Improving Client Service in a Social Insurance Office in Latvia

   Social insurance clients tend to see their individual relationship with the system in two basic ways. First, they are
 usually concerned with how policy affects their lives directly: this means how much they have to contribute, what
 that will mean for their eventual pension, how soon they can retire, and how that pension will be adjusted once they
 retire. Second, they value good system service: this means that their contributions are accurately recorded over their
 lifetimes, contributions can be tracked regularly, the calculation of their pension is done correctly and in a timely fashion,
 and that they can obtain help and assistance without undue difficulty.

   One area that the Welfare Reform Project addressed in the second area was direct client service. Latvia inherited at
 independence a system of dilapidated social insurance offices that were largely based on manual or limited automated
 records. Little or no effective phone service was available, a burden for the elderly in and disabled who had to arrive to
 non-handicapped equipped offices. Clients would be passed from office to office, with few sources of centralized infor-
 mation. Pension calculations took two weeks or more. Individuals had difficulty in assessing their pension status at any
 given point in time. There were few incentives for staff to provide helpful and friendly services to clients. In short,
 Latvian citizens had great difficulty in obtaining any assistance on a benefit program that has a great impact on the quality
 of their lives in old age.

   Through a series of pilots supported by the project, Latvia's social insurance authorities initially focused on identifying
 options for the optimal organization and administration of work in each front office. These pilots started with phased
 limited improvements (e.g., posting of information, name tags on employees, training), and gradually evolved to embrace
 a complete redesign of front office operations.

   Today, the first thing one notices about a new social insurance office is that it is now handicapped accessible. Clients
 enter a comfortable waiting area with seating arrangements (important for the elderly), where a front desk is established
 to help them with their inquiries. All necessary forms are available on stands, and with instructions. In eight larger offices,
 clients take a number for their place in line, and the latest number served is displayed electronically (based on Q-Matic flow
 management systems). Once called, the client goes to the back room, where pension counselors have instant computer
 access to their records. Staff assist the pensioners with their forms as necessary, and enter information in the system as
 needed. Staff are also trained in client service techniques, and confidential service feedback forms are provided and
 monitored (results have not surprisingly been positive). Office organizational hierarchies were reduced from five to three.
 Further, participants receive an annual report on their pensions/contributions, and can also obtain access to a 'pension
 calculator' to calculate their pensions if they so desire. Finally, the system includes telephone help lines for those who
 prefer to make inquiries by phone -- another benefit of particular use to
  the elderly.

   This standard of client service meets or exceeds the level of many other EU countries, and should be a model for other
 countries undergoing transition or accession.



                                                         - 13 -

Component B: Regulation of Privately Managed Pensions (US$0.4 million PAD, US$0.28
actual). This component's outputs are rated highly satisfactory. The project activities supported
the Government to deliver the following outputs: (i) passage of the legislation regulating private
pensions; (ii) training of inspection staff; (iii) issuance in 1998 of regulations under the new
legislation for licensing, accounting, and investments of private pension funds; and (iv)
preparation of manuals to assist Inspectorate staff with their daily work. Most obstacles to third
pillar contributions appear to be external to the project (weak equity markets), but participation is
increasing at a rapid rate as noted above.

Component C: Social Assistance Administration (US$2.51 million PAD, US$2.61 actual)
This component's outputs are rated satisfactory. The project activities supported the Government
to deliver the following outputs: (i) new GMI legislation to improve targeting; (ii) streamlined
benefit application procedures; (iii) handbooks on procedures for local staff; (iv) preparation,
implementation of the Kandava social services pilot, and dissemination of results; (v) preparation
of the technical basis for social service financing reform, but no success in implementation as
noted elsewhere; and (vi) strengthened system oversight, new gatekeeping criteria and eligibility
approaches for social services.

Component D: Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy (US$1.62 million PAD, US$0.62
actual) This component's outputs are rated highly satisfactory. The project activities supported
the Government to deliver the following outputs: (i) preparation of numerous applied policy
studies under the Social Policy Research Program; (ii) five Annual Social Reports involving a
spectrum of Government staff, and receiving wide public dissemination; (iii) staff training in
advanced methods as noted above; (iv) seminars and workshops on social policy issues; and (v)
equipping of offices with SPSS to assist with policy analysis. All policy proposals to Parliament
from the Ministry now contain a professional staff assessment by Ministry staff.

Component E: Project Coordination (US$0.97 million PAD, US$0.74 actual). This
component's outputs are rated as satisfactory. The project was implemented in accordance with
Bank procedures, with only minor issues flagged by Bank supervision teams.

* Project Costs by Component exclude Contingencies

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

        The following section is outlined in greater detail in Annex 3.

        The PAD undertook an economic analysis, but only for the first component (social
insurance reform), which was 83.4 percent of total projected project costs at appraisal. It was
anticipated that the pension reform would lead to a savings of 2 percent of GDP over ten years.
The savings by 2003 were much greater than originally projected (2.5 percent of GDP), with the
system in 2003 in surplus by LVL 18.5 million (approximately US$33.9 million equivalent), even
as average pensions have been increasing. This one year surplus alone well exceeds the total
amount of the loan financing of the operation. While a non-reform scenario was not calculated
for this ICR, in 2003, each percentage savings of GDP in Latvia was equivalent to LVL 58.7


                                                    - 14 -

million (approximately US$107.4 million at current exchange rates). The PAD projected an
unspecified reduction in the payroll contribution rate. This did materialize, with the global rate
falling from 38 percent to 33 percent in 2003. All else being equal, this meant that individuals and
businesses enjoyed contribution savings of roughly LVL 25 million (roughly US$45.8 million
equivalent) in 2003 alone.

        The PAD anticipated administrative cost savings that would equal the investment costs
after 6.7 years. While the quality of information handling has improved dramatically, and benefit
processing times have been reduced to the project target of less than one day, it is also the case
that only limited staff reductions did not materialize due to the delays in implementation of the IT
activities. The SSIA reports a per service cost reduction of 12.5 percent from 1999-2003, but the
fiscal savings from the reform appear to be much more significant.. The PAD also anticipated that
1 percent of GDP would be allocated to privately managed pension accounts by 2005, with an
associated positive impact on national savings. The level was closer to 0.43 percent of GDP in
2003 (LVL 25.5 million), but contribution levels are growing rapidly (a schedule of rate increases
for the second tier will increase the contribution levels from 2 percent today to 10 percent in
2010) and this target might possibly be met by 2005. As noted above, it proved difficult to
undertake a proper cost effectiveness evaluation that would show a recurrent cost reduction per
client as compared to residential institutions (see section 4.3). However, the PAD did not assert
any fiscal savings from the Kandava pilot.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

        Under the guidelines in effect during project appraisal, no financial rate of return was
required for social projects of this type, and none was prepared. A cost effectiveness analysis was
prepared (see Section 4.4).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

        The project's institutional development impact was high. Latvia has developed the
capacity to prepare independent and sophisticated policy analyses and proposals, drawing on tools
developed under the project (social insurance business model, SPSS, annual social report), and
with staff trained in modern applied policy methodologies. For example, Ministry staff are not
only able to utilized the social insurance model, but are also capable of reprogramming it as
necessary. Reliable household survey data is understood and utilized in the Ministry's work.
Insurance supervision staff are highly versed in legal requirements, international practice, and
administrative issues.

        The administrative achievements and issues are noted above. The Social Insurance
component mobilized some 100 staff to participate in 26 active project teams from 1997 to 2003.
These teams focused on: (i) transfer of tax administration to SRS, which was successfully
accomplished; (ii) Ziemelu local office pilot, successfully implemented and replicated; (iii)
development of territorial offices (almost completed); (iv) IT long term development (still active,
as the automation plan was not completed); (v) implementation of new accounting system
(completed); (vi) preparation of new accounting manual (completed); (vii) change of SSIA legal



                                                 - 15 -

status (completed); (viii) IT short systems development, still active; (ix) personnel policy and long
term training (ongoing); (x) public information (ongoing); and (xi) information protection and
security (completed/ongoing). Institutional effects are so notable because the Latvian
counterparts prepared and delivered the project, demonstrating high levels of ownership, and
securing and relying on international expertise as needed.

        The primary institutional challenge will be to continue to develop the current level of
professionalism as Latvia develops its track record as a new European Union member. The EU is
increasingly focusing on social issues of concern to the member states, and Latvia's social
policymakers will be called upon to inform overall EU policy, as well as to develop more effective
internal social policy approaches. Other challenges will include completing the plan to integrate
the SSIA information systems within the next two years.

        The Project Steering Committee was terminated in 2003, and replaced by a Supervisory
Council, which is tasked to assess the reform's implementation and to present related
recommendations to the SSIA Board. The Project Coordination Unit was closed in 2002, and
key functions transferred to the SSIA. The SSIA has established a related Project Administration
Division within its own structures, which is tasked with preparation and oversight of project
activities, project planning, and procurement. Ministry and SSIA staff report that the transfer of
functions was fully successful, and that some trained PIU staff continue to work within the
system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


        The activities of this project were affected by the following factors outside of the control
of government or implementing agency: (i) the lead social insurance administration contractor
and the Government were unable to reach agreement on a plan of action to complete the new
technology platform, so the object oriented databases are still not fully functional; and (ii) equity
markets are still maturing in Latvia, limiting the ability of the second and third pension pillars to
invest in significant amounts of equities. However, there are other external factors that were
more positive -- regional prices and markets have been reasonably stable (with the exception of
the Russian economic crisis, which Latvia had to navigate), national growth has been steady, and
Latvia succeeded in its goal of EU accession (in part dependent upon external affirmation).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


        The activities of this project were affected by the following factors subject to government
control: (i) there was little success in developing a social service financing legislative package
that would have strengthened incentives to move to community services, and away from
residential institutions, though the Council of Ministers has approved the policy for 2005
implementation; (ii) the timing of the implementation of the social assistance policy measures was
delayed in part by an early focus on marginal policy issues, though the package was eventually
successful once it was agreed to prepare a 'Reflection Paper' in 2000 to reconfirm the policy
objectives and strategy under the project. The Government and counterparts followed through



                                                     - 16 -

on all key project activities, and provided the necessary counterpart funds. The Governance
Research Indicator Country dataset for 2002 (World Bank) suggests that Latvia was a strong
performer in controlling corruption in comparison with Eastern Europe (marginally higher) and
Former Soviet Union (much higher) averages. While it still lags behind the OECD averages, this
good performance likely had an indirect bearing on project implementation and outcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:


        The activities of this project were affected by the following factors subject to
implementing agency control: (i) an external auditor capable of advising the authorities on the
progress of the information technology activities was never appointed; (ii) while staffing was
stable, the PCU had some turnover and training issues in the accounting area for a very limited
period; and (iii) in the early period of the project, there were reports that license applications by
private pension funds were met by unnecessary bureaucratic delays. However, the SSIA in
particular was quite successful at adapting flexibly to the constantly changing external
environment, introducing many changes in administration that were not originally envisaged
(streamlining the number of social insurance services to the core business areas, modifying the IT
activities to address the Y2K problem, introducing new administrative solutions to manage the
multi-pillar pension system when the IT platform did not pan out as envisaged, etc.). The PCU
was effective in technical assistance utilization (no major delays other than the IT platform) and
marginally effective in monitoring and evaluation (in part due to the aforementioned weaknesses
in the monitoring framework, which was highly qualitative).

5.4 Costs and financing:

        The total project cost as compared to the PAD cost estimate is currently estimated at
US$31.06 million equivalent. This is about US$0.85 (- 2.67%) million equivalent less than the
US$31.91 million equivalent estimated in the PAD. This difference is largely attributed to the
cancellation of US$5,121,681.53 due to the lack of completion of the information technology
activities. The reasons for the implementation delays and cancellation are discussed in Section 4
Fund flow problems did not significantly affect project implementation. Concerns that were raised
in 2000 on the appreciation of the USD against the DM were quickly resolved by the authorities
and project team. Currency valuation issues and particularly the switch from the DM to the Euro
affected the final project costs.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        The project's sustainability is rated as likely. As noted throughout this report, Latvia has
developed a self-standing and professional policymaking apparatus for the social sectors, and is
now capable of undertaking the kind of technical assessments necessary for an informed
democratic debate on the options relevant for the country's future. Since the multipillar reform is
already being successfully administered, the task of merging the IT platforms over the next years
appears manageable. The SSIA reports high levels of optimism on the sustainability of the
organizational improvements, staff capacity, and the flexibility of its new project management


                                                    - 17 -

approaches. The Kandava pilot demonstrates a much higher quality of social service delivery than
Latvia inherited after independence, though replication will occur slowly as municipalities
continue to face numerous competing local priorities for their scarce resources. The major risk to
sustainability is the highly politicized nature of social insurance, which is an extremely difficult
area to reform given factors such as aging populations, high costs but also high public
expectations, low incomes of some small pension groups (even if pensioners as a whole fare
relatively well), and the ever present temptations for political parties to attract pensioner
constituencies. With the pension system in surplus, there may be some temptations among some
policymakers to grant short term benefit increases that in fact would have longer term structural
ramifications.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         The Government and implementing agencies have incorporated the reform program and
agenda into their regular activities. This is evidenced by: (i) continued implementation of the
pension reform and GMI approach; (ii) strong capacity of the respective policymaking
institutions, with staff in the Social Insurance Department now capable not only of utilizing the
social insurance budget model, but reprogramming it as necessary, and with Ministry staff capable
of utilizing SPSS and other tools for policy analysis; (iii) adequate human and financial resources
to principal actors, including those engaged in oversight of the private pension plans; (iv)
continued preparation of annual social reports; and (v) a fully functional Kandava operation which
still serves as an example to other Latvian communities. The Government has also developed and
is implementing an automation plan to integrate the information technology platforms, and is
successfully implementing the multi-pillar administration (albeit, without the internal cost
efficiencies envisaged).

         Monitoring of the reform is has been continuing since the end of the project. All key fiscal
measures, as well as information needed for the social insurance budget model for projections, are
being collected and analyzed by SID/SSIA. The SSIA is also tracking its internal performance
across a range of appropriate indicators (covering contributors/beneficiaries, financial flows,
staffing and administrative costs, claims, etc.). As noted elsewhere, the key issue to be tracked
will be performance against the commitment to shift financing incentives to support community
services instead of residential institutions. All relevant PCU functions have been transferred
successfully to SSIA. SSIA reports the priority areas ahead include IT development, completion
of local office strengthening, and continued personnel, public information, performance
monitoring, and financial management at acceptable performance levels.

         Given Latvia's accession to the EU and the strong and independent capacity it has
developed, no future Bank operation is envisaged. Indeed, Latvian experts might be engaged to
support other countries facing problems in their social welfare systems, particularly given their
technical expertise and direct engagement on a difficult set of reforms in a transition context.
The Bank might consider favorable consideration to limited advisory services, should the
Government so request. A future impact evaluation by OED might be useful in some respects
given the successes of the project across a number of areas. Such an evaluation, however, might:
(i) await the implementation of the social services financing reform by early 2005; and (ii) take
into account that lessons learned might not be easily replicable in countries that haven't gone


                                                  - 18 -

through the particular requirements of EU accession.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

        The Bank's preparation performance was satisfactory. This was one of the first major
social policy reform programs in the ECA region, and also one of the earliest project interventions
where there were limited lessons within the region to be drawn from. During identification, the
team assisted the authorities to prepare a program that was fully in accordance with country
priorities and the CAS, as noted above. Through appraisal and negotiations, the Bank team
worked with the client to (i) establish an extensive diagnosis of the economic and social issues
related to a cross cutting reform agenda, in the midst of a turbulent transition period for the
country; (ii) prepare a reform vision in close collaboration with the authorities, drawing on the
latest innovations in pension policy reform (multi-pillar approaches) consistent with the Bank's
global recommendations (as reflected in the "Averting the Old Age Crisis" Bank policy research
report of 1994), as well as 'best practice' in social service delivery (as reflected in the publication
"Moving From Residential Institutions to Community Based Services in Eastern Europe and the
Former Soviet Union", World Bank, 1999); (iii) base the project design and strategy on extensive
stakeholder consultations, including a consultative appraisal workshop; (iv) establish
comprehensive and ultimately effective project coordination arrangements, based on a sound
operational manual; (v) establish effective partnerships with other key IFIs and donors, notably
the IMF, Sweden's SIDA, the UNDP, and the UK Know How Fund; and (vi) coordinate project
activities with other operations in the portfolio (e.g., the SAL measures on tax collection, as well
as the PSAL). The project risks were well defined, particularly those related to the risk of policy
slippages and the effect on the project, however, the risk related to the capacity to manage the
social insurance administration component was under-emphasized. The financial package and
amount appeared appropriate, though the IT contract issues did lead to a revision downwards in
financing needs. The primary gap in preparation was the over-estimation of the Borrower's
capacity to monitor and implement some of the complex information technology activities, which
in retrospect appears to have contributed to the delays and problems in the second
sub-component.

7.2 Supervision:

        The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory, In lending activities, comprehensive
teams were fielded with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions
included the required expertise and local staff (including the team leader) who continuously
monitored project activities. Project issues were quickly identified and responded to, in part
because of the strong local supervision presence. For example, once the delays in information
technology came to light in 2000, the Bank team worked aggressively with the client to secure
external expertise (from IDP Education Australia) to review this component, the status and issues
related to contract delivery, and the costs and benefits of different options for moving forward. In
a similar fashion, the early delays in social assistance policy led the Bank team to recommend the
'Reflection Paper' to reconfirm the policy directions and strategy, which successfully got much of


                                                  - 19 -

the social assistance program back on track. All project supervision requirements (policy,
safeguards and fiduciary reviews, PSRs, mid term reviews, etc.) were met to a high standard, and
there were no deviations found from Bank policies and procedures. Project ratings appeared
realistic, with the team ready to shift ratings downwards (e.g., in the social insurance component)
when problems came to light. The primary gap in supervision was the monitoring and
presentation of key performance indicators, which could have been much more detailed in project
supervision reports. The Bank might also have monitored the IT activities more carefully in the
early stages, as the problems in the second sub-component did not come to light until the IDP
report.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory. The experience of preparation
and supervision teams was well matched to the client's needs. Policy and bureaucratic obstacles
were quickly addressed, as reflected in the project files and in the above observations. The Bank
very much supported the client where flexible approaches were needed (e.g., the shift of second
pillar record-keeping to the Central Depository under a four year contract while the IT system
continues revision, the need to address Y2K issues that had not been expected, and the eventual
closure of the PCU). All loan covenants were met. It appears that there was a close and positive
working relationship with the authorities and participating donors at all stages of the project.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

     The Borrower's preparation performance is rated as satisfactory, especially considering that
this was the Ministry's first project. The Government was quick to (i) identify the key policy
issues facing this new country in transition, including the projected costs of an unreformed
pension system, the need to move from a cash based social assistance approach to one focused on
the individual, the costs and poor quality of residential institutions, poor household level data
quality, and weak project management capacity within the Ministry and implementing agencies;
(ii) prepare a policy reform program based on global best practice in social insurance
(multi-pillar), while recognizing the need to establish an administrative basis for implementing that
program; (iii) prepare an innovative policy reform program to strengthen community social
services and standards of service delivery; (iv) establish a training plan for key policy staff, while
supporting applied policy analysis through the creation of and support to a Department of Social
Policy Strategy, as well as the creation of a Social Policy Research Program establishing
competitive tendering for expert technical assessments of key social policy issues; (v) establish a
Project Coordination Unit and staff/train it appropriately. Technical analyses were undertaken by
key counterpart staff, at times with Bank support, especially with respect to the development of a
social insurance budget model as well as intensive business planning and automation assessments.
It did take some time for counterpart staff to understand Bank policies and procedures -- much of
the terminology was new, and approaches were being designed and implemented that staff were
unfamiliar with (component objectives, logframes, costabs, etc.).


7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                 - 20 -

    The Government's implementation performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The
Government succeeded in (i) preparing the second and third tier pension legislation and GMI
legislation, preparing Parliament and public for their passage, and securing Parliamentary
endorsement; (ii) securing macro-economic reforms necessary for national growth and
competitiveness, but also conducive to the success of this reform; (iii) implementing broader
organizational and oversight arrangements necessary for project activities, including effective
supervisory arrangements for private pension funds, efforts to coordinate the Social Insurance
Department (policy) and State Social Insurance Agency (administration), strengthened
organizational capacity for social policy analysis through the new Social Policy Strategy
Department; and (iv) supporting the Kandava pilot implementation and dissemination; (v)
providing adequate counterpart funds, with a little prodding needed in 2000. Project
documentation shows no evidence of interference in operational decisions. Project management
overall was at high standards. The Government had more difficulty securing an agreed policy
direction for financing of community based social services, an important project objective, though
as noted it is planning on introducing changes in 2005. The issues with the information
technology contract might have been identified and addressed earlier in the project period.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

    The implementing agency's performance is rated as satisfactory. The Project Coordination
Unit maintained a high standard of management effectiveness, including financial management and
oversight of covenants including audits, quarterly project reporting, effective procurement (with
reasonable delays in some packages), coordination of missions and schedules, monitoring of
project indicators, staff training, and related areas. There were some issues noted during the
project period, notably (i) the PCU was not monitoring loan use by executing agency, which was
remedied in 1999/2000; (ii) a sudden mid-project change in accounting staff led to some
temporary difficulties for the PCU; and (iii) social tax arrangements for staff required clarification
at the mid-project period.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Many of the reasons are highlighted in
the above sections, but these are complemented by (i) an aggressive public information strategy
for social insurance and social assistance that secured the pension and GMI reforms; (ii) training
plans that were tied to actual work programs, such as the linkage between the applied policy
training and the production of the Annual Social Reports; and (iii) strong ownership of the
project, evidenced by successful implementation, but also by comments by many staff that the
termination of project support was regretted after the conclusion of the project activities.

8. Lessons Learned

    The project implementation has led to a number of clear lessons for both the Bank and client
(section 9 includes important lessons learned from the partners that should also be noted):




                                                  - 21 -

       l In a complex institutional capacity building and policy strengthening operations project
            successes may well be poorly correlated with the allocation of investment resources.
            As noted above, this operation achieved its most notable development impacts in the
            smallest components. This is largely due to the successful design and implementation
            and intervention of an operation that was squarely aimed at improving sector
            management. The improved business processes, training, and policy development
            activities paid off, particularly in Latvia's reasonably stable macroeconomic and social
            environment. For example, the SSIA reports that it has extensive practical experience
            now in project management which will serve it well in Latvia's transition to EU
            membership.

       l The reform's intensive public information campaign clearly was a major success factor
            for the multi-pillar pension and GMI reforms. These reforms also benefited from
            extensive technical analyses (e.g., the pension budget model) that were made available
            to policymakers and the public.

       l The operation might have developed and tracked more quantitative indicators,
            particularly given its core focus on supporting a fiscal and structural reform agenda
            around social benefits. While extensive evaluation was undertaken, much of this was
            based on quantitative assessment, with notable exceptions (e.g., the review of the
            information technology activities).

       l For complex information technology interventions of this type, it is important to
            ensure that the client has the capacity to monitor project implementation. While the
            Welfare Reform Project developed an extremely thorough business and automation
            plan, this led to a false sense of confidence that the client was prepared to implement
            these highly technical activities in the absence of the retention of additional support
            (e.g., a project auditor). SSIA confirms this over-optimism, and highlighted the need
            for more careful feasibility and risk analyses in the future. That said, there is an
            irreducible level of risk associated with major information systems implementation,
            since system implementation methodologies are still quite immature and change no less
            rapidly than underlying information technologies. As a result, implementing core
            business systems invariably is instutution-specific and very much learning-by-doing
            undertaking.

       l The SSIA noted additional lessons from this project: (i) the importance of matching
            consultant expertise to needs, as there were some consultants that were viewed as not
            appropriate to the project tasks; (ii) the project period was too long; and (iii) the Bank
            project implementation requirements were too bureaucratic to ensure timely and
            effective decision-making. The Social Insurance Department notes that some activities
            were implemented too quickly, and that the weak institutional capacity of the
            Borrower at times led to over-reliance on external experts and World Bank staff.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                  - 22 -

               Evaluation of Welfare System Reform Project
                               (Opinion of the Ministry of Welfare)

1. Goals and achievements of the Project

    The goal of Latvian Welfare System Reform carried out from 1997 to 2003 was to
restructure the system of social welfare by ensuring financial stability of the system, creating a
client-oriented system of social insurance, developing an adequate normative and institutional
base in the area of private pensions, improving the system of social assistance, and developing
alternative care services, as well as providing for high quality and professional monitoring and
evaluation of policy. The purpose of the Project may basically be regarded as achieved.

   As the most important gains of Welfare System Reform Project, the following may be
regarded:

            as result of implementation of reform project, a contemporary and efficient state
    social insurance system and a social assistance system based on the assessment of needs of
    the client was created, the improvement of normative base was completed, and the
    institutional system was developed;

            the comprehension of evaluation of policy impact and its importance in setting
    policy priorities and policy planning as a whole has grown;

            the knowledge level of specialists of welfare area and involved parties has
    significantly increased, and essential experience in development, administration, and
    management of large scale projects , as well as application of procurement procedures was
    gained, that may be successfully used in future work;

            the operation, administrative capacity, and quality of services of institutions under
    the supervision of Ministry of Welfare has improved; the development of operation model
    of the first state agency in the country (SSIA) has brought experience and knowledge that
    were successfully overtook in the branch of welfare;

            the level of information and knowledge in the society on social policy issues has
    grown. The implementation of Project gained support and understanding in the public due
    to wide public information campaigns that are especially important when explaining
    socially sensible issues and considering the implemented cardinal changes in social area;

            cooperation between welfare specialists, state government institutions, and
    non-governmental sector was promoted, the ability to create cooperation networks in
    policy development and implementation has grown. Informal contacts and the experience
    gained from cooperation allow to implement successful cooperation projects in different
    areas even now;




                                             - 23 -

           experience and knowledge gained by parties involved in the Project (ministries,
    municipalities, NGO, researchers, etc.) in order to evaluate the issues to be considered in
    international context. Involvement of NGO and researchers into international cooperation
    networks.

   As a risk for long-term stability of gains, the position of social issues in the center of policy
making interests must be recognized, as result of which compromise decisions emerge, not
always serving for the benefit of stabilization of social security system, and that of confidence
of residents regarding the sustainability of policy.

   More detailed analysis of purposes and evaluation of results is provided below in the
characteristic of purposes and gains of separate components.

   2. Evaluation of results of Project components

   Component 1: Development of social insurance

        This subcomponent supported the design and implementation of the strategically
oriented state social insurance policy. The fundamental reform of the pension system was
aimed to provide contribution-related and adequate pensions by giving participants a mixed
portfolio with separate parts of the old age benefit depending on the development of the
economy and the financial market. The component's outcomes can be assessed as satisfactory.

   As a result of the reform, currently, Latvia has the modern, fully affordable in the
long-term, social insurance and old-age security system. The main outcomes of the component
are:

           the social tax rate in a general case has been reduced from 38% in 1996 to 33.09%
    in 2003; responsibility of the job taker was increased through distribution of the
    contribution rate between the employer and the job taker respectively from 37% and 1% in
    1996 to 24.09% and 9% in 2003;

           the state social insurance contribution rate was differentiated in accordance with
    the risks which actually may take place;

           the maximum and the minimum amount of the state social insurance contribution
    object for self-employed persons was determined in order to provide financial stability of
    the system;

           the four special budgets  the state pension budget, the employment budget, the
    disability, maternity and sickness budget and the work accident budget were created in
    order to provide transparency of the budget spending;

           the personified registration of the social insurance contributions was introduced
    and the administration of the social tax was put in order;


                                             - 24 -

           the function of collecting the social contributions was transferred to the State
    Revenue Service to save administrative costs;

           the State Social Insurance Agency has been developed to a modern, effective and
    client-oriented agency, able to manage the new legislation.

        Latvia was the first country in CEE to start the reform of the old PAYG pension
system and has become the first country to implement the NDC PAYG scheme. Alongside the
NDC PAYG pension scheme (1st tier), implemented in 1996 and state funded pension scheme
(2nd tier), implemented in 2001, the old-age security system in Latvia includes also private
voluntary pension insurance (3rd tier), which started operation in 1998.

        In general, the well-grounded new state pension system has hard line to ensure the
cost efficiency, affordability and sustainability for the long-term. If the reform would not
embark on, the social insurance contribution rate would to be increased significantly in the
future. The new pension system has a positive impact on the macroeconomic situation in the
country, reducing the social burden of the economy in the mid and long term. Introduction of
the state funded pension scheme and private pension funds may support the formation of
long-term financial resources and encouraging development of the country's capital market.
The multitier pension system improves also the risk diversification and participants' choice.

   The process of development of basic pension legislation in Latvia is completed. Therefore
the objectives of the reform may be considered as fully achieved and the new policy is
sustainable despite the frequent changes of the Government. Although, the first years of
operation of the NDC PAYG pension scheme do not allow evaluating the performance of the
"pure" law. Pensions granted according to the old rules prior to 1996 and according to the
transitional rules create a long transitional period. According to projections, the mature NDC
scheme, where all PAYG pensions will be fully based on contributions, will operate only in
2070ies, thereof in its entirely, the result of the reform can be evaluated only then.

   With the support of the World bank consultants, Latvia has already overtook many other
EU member states in meeting common objectives on the financial sustainability and
modernization of pension systems. Moreover, with assistance of the World Bank consultants,
Latvia has join the EU being already well prepared to perform professional policy monitoring
and evaluation of the pension system and capable to fulfill all EU requirements concerning
preparation analytical reports and making long-term projections. The macrosimulation model
for evaluation of the social insurance budget and pension policy, created in cooperation with
the experts from the Swedish Social Insurance Board, is highly approved internationally.
Using such tool, Latvia among other EU countries can be full-fledged participant in policy
modeling and evaluation.

   Summarizing all the outcome, in general, the ambitious Latvian reform can be valuated as
well-timed, effective and well-supported by partners.




                                               - 25 -

   It has to be noted that problems in transition have caused some obstacles for fast success in
pension reform as well:

           The main challenges to the reformed pension system's ability to ensure adequate
    pensions are related to the state economy, as income related pensions are vulnerable to the
    situation in the labour market in terms of wage level and unemployment. The new pension
    system still meets the significant opposition from the low-income earners and poor
    pensioners. That undermines the reliability to the system. Therefore, to meet EU common
    objectives for adequate and sustainable pensions, government has taken measures to
    protect pensioners and reduce risks of poverty and social exclusion by increasing
    guarantees in the 1st tier pension scheme and applying from 2002 partial wage index,
    instead of price index, for pensions (in 2004 the share of wage increase in the pension
    index has been changed from 25% to 50% for low pension amounts). At the same time
    such measures hamper the creation of the reserve fund, which, because of demographical
    reasons, will be badly needed to meet future obligations.

            With the rather high rate of unemployment, the incentive for later retirement
    (intended in the new pension formula) has not worked efficiently. A significant number of
    pensioners continue to choose the early retirement possibility even if they will receive a
    low pension.

           It is difficult for the society, which sees the problem of unemployment particularly
    in the rural parts of Latvia, to accept an increase in the pension age. Although the
    demographic situation in Latvia shows that it will be necessary to return to discussions
    about a further increase in the minimum retirement age.

           Incorporation of the state funded pension scheme (FDC) into the public pension
    system in Latvia can be achieved without an additional increase in the contribution rate,
    however there is a trade-off between its introduction and the rate at which indexation of
    NDC benefits can be improved as well as potential decreases in the overall contribution
    rate. In addition, within the overall social insurance budget, the costs of the pension
    system will include a "tax" to pay for the introduction of the funded tier, which will take
    several decades to disappear completely. This hampers ensuring adequate pensions and
    reduction of the system's load.

    Future developments and sustainability of the reformed system will greatly depend on the
well-focused Government strategy as well as by further development of the State economy.

   Component 2: Legislation and monitoring of social pension funds

   The purposes of this component establishment and supervision of private pension funds and
financially stable pension plans) may be regarded as reached.

   Within the framework of the Project, legal base regulating the operation of private pension
funds, and institutional base for supervision of private pension funds was developed.



                                               - 26 -

   For supervision of private pension funds, the Commission of Finance and Capital Market
(CFCM) was established, the operation of which is being regulated by a separate law. The
analysis of financial reports of CFCM evidences the increase of scope of private pension
schemes and number of participants of pension plans. Nevertheless, the initially set goal
(increase of private pension funds from 1% to 20% of gross domestic product within time
period from 1998 to 2025) was not reached, and the current situation does not show that a
rapid increase of private pension funds could be expected.

   Financial and human resources being at the disposal of CFCM are in the position to provide
for efficient and regular supervision of private pension funds, therefore, it may be considered
that a sustainable and efficient supervision of private pension funds was established as result of
implementation of the project.

   Although normative and institutional base for operation and supervision of private pension
funds was created, the level of information and involvement of the public in this scheme is still
insufficient. As main reasons, the underdeveloped motivation mechanism of employers and
employees, relatively low purchasing capacity of residents, resulting in inability to create
accumulations, and underdeveloped financial market in Latvia should be mentioned.

   Component 3: Development of social assistance

   The general purpose of this component was to ensure the provision of more efficient and
quality social assistance and social services to residents of Latvia. The improvement strategy
and main goals of system of social assistance and social services were defined in the "White
Paper on Development of Social Assistance System" that was prepared in 1996 within the
framework of Welfare Reform Project. In order to achieve these goals, the following tasks
were set:

           Introduction of changes in funding principles in order to make sure that "money
    follows client", and to achieve possibly efficient usage of resources in provision of social
    assistance;

           Introduction of changes in the system of benefits in order to make it more simple
    and concentrate resources to defined target groups;
           Change of appeal model regarding social assistance issues;

           Improvement of cooperation between government and municipalities in the area of
    system of social assistance and social services;

           Provision of sufficient number of adequately qualified employees to the system of
    social assistance.

   Detailed normative base in the area of social assistance and social services has been
completely prepared. The results of Project of WB ware incorporated in the Law on Social



                                             - 27 -

Services and Social Assistance that took effect as of January 1, 2003, and in a number of other
normative acts regulating the system of social assistance and social services  united
regulations of receipt of and payment for social assistance and social services, introducing
"gate-keeping", quality requirements for providers of social services, supervision of quality
observance, etc.

   Complete implementation of the principle "money follows client" (transfer of state social
care institutions to municipalities) is being established by the Law on Social Services and
Social Assistance, providing that all such institutions be transferred to municipalities until
December 31, 2005.

   The effective legislation promotes the channeling of social benefits to indigent residents,
participation of residents in receipt of social assistance, as well as development of alternative
care that is an important pre-condition for development of social services that suit the needs of
residents, and improvement of their quality and efficiency.

   The system of securing guaranteed minimum income (GMI) level was introduced. The
GMI level is subject to annual revision by agreement between government and municipalities,
because the corresponding benefit is being paid from budgets of municipalities. The
introduction of GMI has supported more precise assessment of income and material situation
of residents (families), as result of which, municipal social assistance is presently directed to
those residents who need social assistance most.

   The implementation of the new policy developed within the framework of WB Project was
tested in the municipality of Kandava and other municipalities. Within the framework of
Kandava pilot project, valuable experience in administration of social assistance system was
gained, demonstrating growth of satisfaction of clients, extension of scope and growth of
quality of services, as well as efficiency of usage of financial resources. On base of Kandava
pilot project, Case Management System was created and approbated, and distributed to other
municipalities.

   An important project activity was related to revision and optimization of functions between
Ministry of Welfare and its subordinated institutions, namely, Social Assistance Department
(SAD) and Social Assistance Fund (SAF):

           optimal operation of SAD and SAF has been established, and competencies
    between these organizations have been divided;

           Functions in the area of social services have been overtook by SAF;

           since 1998, several restructuring measures of SAD and SAF have been performed
    in order to align organizational structure with tasks assigned.

   In order to provide more information to providers of social services, governmental
institutions, and municipalities, SAF provides for regular organization of training and



                                              - 28 -

informative workshops, publishes Social Assistance Bulletin, prepares yearbooks "Social
Assistance in Latvia".

   The development of alternative care services possibly closer to place of residence of client
depends on financial possibilities of municipalities, attitude of politicians towards social
sphere, municipal resources of social work professionals. It should be noted that the
development of alternative care services is uneven. The duties of municipalities in securing of
social work at local level have been established by the Law on Social Services and Social
Assistance. The number of municipalities where social services are being established increases
annually, the number of social work professionals grows, although the demand for them is still
not being satisfied. The education of social work professionals is being promoted by
governmental programs.

   There exists a risk that the transfer of social care institutions to municipalities may be
delayed in case of delay of administrative and territorial reform, as result of which, a large
portion of the existing municipalities may change.

   In order to make the securing system of GMI an important take-off point in positive
changes regarding the situation of socially rejected groups of residents, and provide real
support, it is necessary to increase the amount of social benefit and provide for efficient
operation of social services. Successful addressing of this issue in the future will depend on
political will of governmental and municipal politicians, on financial possibilities, and on
qualification level of social workers.

   Component 4: Supervision and evaluation of social policy

   The following immediate objectives were set in the Project:

           Capacity increase of personnel of Ministry of Welfare and Central Statistics Board
    and independent researchers in processing of social and economical data and formulation
    of future needs;

           Capacity increase of personnel of Ministry of Welfare and independent researchers
    in development and evaluation of social policy programs, and distribution of results.

   The first immediate objective may be regarded as completely achieved, and the second as
partially achieved.

   The annual Social Report is the most obvious result of this component. The importance of
SR is being emphasized both by employees of the Ministry and external users (diplomatic
corps, politicians, researchers, international organizations, academic staff, students).
Nevertheless, notwithstanding the importance of SR both in MoW and outside it, there exists
a certain risk for continuation of development of SR. As grounds of risk, personal and
structural changes in the Ministry should be mentioned, promoting the fading of ownership of
SR. Although SR still has not become a political monitoring document, moreover, it serves as



                                              - 29 -

informative and descriptive material, analytical base for improvement of this report has been
created.

   The development of Monitoring Data Management System started within the framework of
the Project was completed in April this year. The shift of initially set terms was determined by
the lasting coordination procedure of work tasks, structural changes in the Ministry
(restructuring of Social Policy Development Department), and failure to observe the
established term by system developer.

   In order to secure transparent and efficient ordering procedure of social policy research, an
order of application for, ordering, and monitoring of research works was developed. The
procedures developed by Ministry of Welfare are applicable for involvement of both foreign
and local research institutions. As an example of good practice, it was applied in the
development of draft regulations of Cabinet of Ministers and in the work of other
governmental institutions.

   Although training sessions on research development were organized, and social policy
research is being ordered by the Ministry on regular base, it may not be regarded as direct
project input in development of cooperation network of researchers. As a positive aspect, the
obtainment of cooperation partners amongst researchers, and their involvement in the
development of social policy should be mentioned, as, for instance, in preparation of strategic
and planning documents.

   It must be noted as the most important contribution of this component, that monitoring and
evaluation of social policy has gradually become a constituting part of daily work of
employees of the Ministry, without that successful development and implementation of policy
is not possible. An important pre-condition of successful implementation of the Project
"Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy" was its importance, innovativeness, and
usefulness for branch professionals, politicians, and the society as a whole.

   As one of success factors, the increase of importance of policy monitoring and evaluation
in state governance system, and the demand amongst policy developers and decision makers
for quality analysis of policy should be mentioned.

   In order to develop monitoring and evaluation system in the Ministry, complete
implementation of Monitoring Data Management System and training of employees of the
Ministry, as well as improvement of analytical knowledge and methods of analysis is
necessary.

   As a risk factor regarding successful application of research results in policy planning
process, governmental decision to exclude the program of applicable research from state
budget programs in 2003 should be mentioned. Therefore, the only possibility is to make use
of the possibilities offered in the area of research by international organizations and
institutions.




                                              - 30 -

   Component 5: Project coordination

   The purpose of the component was to support project development and to provide for
efficient management thereof in order to reach the goals of the Project. This goal may be
regarded as achieved.

   The evaluation of project component is based upon the evaluation of performance and
personnel of Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established within the framework of the
Project.

   PCU has performed with high quality on base of contemporary information technologies
and management of financial data.

   In the implementation course of the Project, the employees of PCU gained important
experience in project administration and application of procurement procedures. A part of
employees of the former PCU continues their work in welfare system, that provides for
successful application and transfer to other employees of the Ministry of the obtained
knowledge and skills in the administration work of structural funds of EC.

   The fact that the skills necessary for project management were acquired by employees of
the Unit in project implementation course should be regarded as both positive and impeding
factor.

   3. Other factors having influence on administrative process course

   The administration process of welfare system reform may be considered as satisfactory.
Nevertheless, also obstacles and challenges in performance of tasks set in the Project and
observance of terms should be mentioned:

            Lack of experience and knowledge in implementation of large scale projects, due
    to that, implementation terms and results to be achieved were set too optimistically;

            Development of administration structure not complying with the scope and
    complexity of the Project  the professionals of the Ministry and subordinated institutions
    performed their activities in line with daily tasks and functions;

            Too big reliance upon opinion and decisions of foreign experts, especially in the
    initial stage of the Project;

            Lasting and complicated decision passing procedure at World Bank, that caused
    shift of terms in several components of the Project, especially in tender procedures;

            Unsuccessful choice of planning and cooperation partners in several cases,
    especially regarding the area of IT;




                                             - 31 -

            Not all changes during implementation course of the Project were documented,
     and information was not updated, that does not allow to gain a representation of reasons
     of such changes

            Changes of personnel, and, correspondingly, risk to transfer of accumulated
     knowledge and experience.

    5. Lessons learned and conclusions gained

    For all involved parties, essential is the awareness of progress and goals of social security
also after the end of reform project, in order to ensure the sustainability and further
development of the framework of system developed in the implementation course of Reform
Project of Ministry of Welfare.

    The development and implementation of social security policy is not only the prerogative of
state governing institutions. Successful addressing and progress of social policy issues
depends on the involvement of cooperation partners.

    Successful implementation of project is being determined by the involved people, therefore,
it is essential to consider the institutionalization and function description of processes, as well
as regular documenting of positive practice, distribution of results, and granting access to
them to any interested party.

    Taking regard at the present personnel changes in governmental management,
institutionalized and documented procedures are necessary in order to provide for transfer of
experience and knowledge.

    In order to avoid that the implementation of new functions, methods, and programs would
be regarded as additional burden to daily workload, motivation of the involved parties must be
promoted by gaining assessable results and promoting the interest of involved persons in work
performance and demand for work results.

         One of the most important factors facilitating the success of the project is the ability of
provider to adapt to the local socioeconomic environment. Under Latvian project this
requirement had not placed a proper weight, and led to several political decisions (for instance
 choice of the pattern for the transitional period to the pure NDC scheme), which resulted to
the number of amendments in legislation and still has unfavorable feedbacks.

         The focus on communication from the first days of reform is essential for successful
implementation of the strategy. Therefore the sufficient financial means have to be allocated
for the PR campaign. While Ministries efforts had been directed mostly towards formulating
the 1st tier pension scheme legislation, scarce efforts were in place to communicate the new
pension system to the population, especially those about to reach retirement age. As a result,
public awareness and understanding of the rights and obligations was insufficient when the
new pension law came into force in 1996, causing unfavorable consequences for many of new



                                               - 32 -

    pension claimants. The timely PR campaign has proved their critical importance starting-up of
    the 2nd tier pension scheme.


        The reform of welfare system is a project of public and highly political importance
    that changed the structure and goals of social security system and positioned Latvia
    amongst the leaders in the development of client-oriented and contribution-based
    system.

        The Ministry of Welfare would like to thank all partners and organizations involved
    in the Project, experts of World Bank, without the support of which, successful
    implementation of such cardinal reform would not be possible, and the goals and tasks
    of the reform would have not been achieved.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Below are comments from Madeleine Hgg-Liljestrm, Area Manager, Division for Eastern
Europe and Central Asia, Sida Europe.

This project has been a success in several ways, but most importantly it has given Latvia a
sustainable pension system. This accomplishment has also been noted by others. During the
european accession meeting in November 2003, for example, the head of mission of the EU
confirmed that this was an outstanding reform and would be an example for the rest of Europe.
Sidas independent review of the project was also very positive.

Some keys to success in the beginning was a boldness on the part of the government to do real
reforms, good timing and good advisors. Another reason for the success was the fact that there
was a counterpart assigned to the project within both the Ministry and the Social insurance
agency. Ministry staff and SSIA staff developed a high level of competence through their strong
commitment to work on this project and their willingness and curiosity to learn and constantly
improve. From a Swedish point of view, the timing was also excellent since we could use the
fresh experience from our own welfare reform. Our best experts from different sectors were
available and could be gathered to work on the project as a team. In retrospect, the project has
been almost as important for our experts and we hope that they, together with the Latvian part of
what is now "the team", will be able to share their experience and help other countries with their
welfare reforms. We are just now about to take a decision for financing a pension component in
the Lithuanian welfare reform, and I am certain that there will be others.




Below are comments from Inita Paulovica Assistant Resident Representative (
Programme) UNDP Latvia:

I am very pleased to provide my comments on the Implementation Completion Report (TF-20907



                                               - 33 -

SCL-41540 PPBF-P3080) for the Latvia Welfare Reform Project.

The UNDP Latvia Country office was involved in the implementation of component D: "Social
policy monitoring and evaluation" of the Latvia Welfare Reform Project - during the period in
years 1996-2001.        The Final Evaluation of UNDP implemented activities recognized that the
project "has been highly relevant, innovative and successful" Final Project Evaluation,
LAT/95/003  Social Policy Monitoring and Evaluation, by Asoka Kasturiachichi, Ieva, Kalnina
and Gunita Kakteniece, 22-31 January, 2002. The project helped to build capacities of the
Ministry of Welfare staff in data analysis, developing different tools for monitoring social
policies, (such as the Annual Social Report), enhanced cooperation among data providers
(different state and municipal institutions), data producers (Central Statistical Bureau and
researchers) and data users (policy makers and politicians).

More generally, the Latvia Welfare Reform project has contributed significantly to the human
development of Latvia by creating a stable and predictable pension system, enhancing
implementation of better targeted social assistance and social services to reduce risk of poverty,
as well as by facilitating the role of research, statistics and public information in policy
development, planning and monitoring. The Social Policy Monitoring and Evaluation
component has created significant spillover effect that has resulted in the creation and
implementation of a policy monitoring system for the National Programme for Integration of
Society, the development and implementation of a Policy Impact Assessment system at the
national level, as well as significantly increased the usage of research in public policy debates.



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

    This report incorporated the views expressed in a day long Latvia Welfare Reform completion
workshop held in Riga, Latvia on June 1, 2004. At the end of the workshop, participants were given the
opportunity to provide ratings in each of the report areas anonymously (they were briefed on Bank rating
criteria), and this feedback was utilized in the final report. The agenda and participants of that workshop
are as follows:

                      Lessons Learned from the Design and Implementation of
                                     Latvia Welfare Reform Project
                                                      ICR
                                                    Agenda
                                                 June 1, 2004
                                         Skolas Street 28, 6th floor
                          Coffee, tea
11.00  11.10             Introduction remarks  Inguna Dobraja

11.10  11.20             Opening of the Workshop  Ms. Baiba Pasevica, State Secretary,
                          Ministry of Welfare



                                                      - 34 -

11.20  11.50         Looking Back  Setting Political Scene for the Reform
                      Mr. Andris Berzins, former minister of Welfare and ex-Prime Minister,
                      Mr. Vladimirs Makarovs, former minister of Welfare,
                      Mr. Maija Porsnova, former State Secretary, MoW.
11.50  12.20         Why SIDA was interested and was that a success? - Madeleine
                      Hagg-Liljestrom, SIDA
                      UNDP  what was the reason for involvement and was that a success -
                      Inita Paulovica, UNDP
12.20  12.40         Social Insurance Component  pension system, budget model Inta
                      Vanovska, Social insurance Department
12.40  13.00         Lessons Learned at the State Social Insurance Agency - Inese Smitina,
                      SSIA
13.00  13.30         Implementation of the Second Tier and achieved results - Ivars
                      Kirsons, Consultant
                      Trends in the development of the Private Pension Funds - Dace
                      Brencena, member of the PPF Council
13.30 13.45          Q&A
13.45  15.00         Lunch
15.00  15.20         Social Services and Social Assistance in Latvia  Sandra Baltina, Social
                      Assistance Department
15.20  15.40         Kandava Pilot Project Implementation and Results - Ints Leitarts,
                      Director of the SAC; Alfreds Kiegelis , Kandava Municipality Major
15.40  16.00         Social policy, Monitoring and Evaluation - Sanita Vasiljeva, Social
                      policy and Monitoring department
16.00  16.45         Findings of the Draft Implementation Report for the Latvia Welfare
                      Reform Project  Philip Goldman, WB
16.45 17.00          Q&A
17.00  17.15         Closing remarks by Agrita Groza, Under Secretary of State, Director of
                      the Project
17.15  18.00         Coffee, snacks

                   Lessons Learned from the Design and Implementation of
                                 Latvia Welfare Reform Project
                                      List of Participants
                                          June 1, 2004
                                   Skolas Street 28, 6th floor
Ministry of Welfare
Baiba Pasevica  State Secretary
Agrita Groza  Under Secretary of State
Ingus Alliks - Under Secretary of State
Lauma Grafa  Finanacial management and EUSF department
Sanita Vasiljeva  Social policy monitoring unit
Sandra Stabina - Socialas policy monitoring unit
Inese Kalvane  Structural policy unit



                                              - 35 -

Sanita Zaksa  EQUAL policy unit
Antra Jansone  EQUAL implementaiton unit
Lilita Velde  Social Insurance department
Inta Vanovska - Social Insurance department, Pension policy unit
Jana Muizniece  Social Insurance department
Rita Pukinska  Social policy and monitoring unit
Sandra Baltina  Social services and assistance department
Daina Podzina  Social services and assistance department
Aldis Dudins  Social service unit

Social Assistance Fund
Ralfs Zeibots  Director, Social Assistance Fund
Laima Cakste  Statistics and information unit
Olga Lapinska  Statistics and information unit
Maija Sarkane  Metodological assistance and project unit

State Social Insurance Agency
Inese Smitina- Director, SSIA
Irena Vevere- Deputy Director, SSIA
Ilze Tarvane  Statistics and monitoring unit
Inara Cimure - ITSC unit
Ivars Gredzens  Manager of the project "Development of functional environment"
Marika Muze  Manager of the project administration unit

Kandava
Alfreds Kiegelis  Kandava Municipality Major
Ints Leitarts  Director of the SAC

Invited
Vladimirs Makarovs - former Minister of Welfare
Andris Berzins - former Prime Minister and former Minister of Welfare
Maija Porsnova  former State Secretary
Dace Brencena  Private penion fund
Ivars Kirsons  former consultant on Second Tier administration
Laima Zilite  previously has worked at the SSIA on Sec Tier
Gvido Romeiko  Financial and Capital Market Comission
Janis Bokans  previously has worked at the State Social Supervision Inspectorate
Ieva Jaunzeme  previously worked at the MoW
Vineta Fortina  former PCU director
Sergejs Blazevics  procurement specialist
Vita Savicka  PR consultant
Andors Miltins  previously has worked at the SSIA IT center
Sarma Upesleja  previously consultant on Kandava Pilot Project




                                              - 36 -

Ingrida Arbacevska  previously PCU assistant
Aija Poca  former minister for State Revenue
Inita Paulovica  UNDP
Madeleine Hagg-Liljestrom - SIDA

World Bank
Inguna Dobraja
Philip Goldman
Toms Baumanis
Lilita Sparane

Iveta Sevkane - interpreter




                                             - 37 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Affordability of the social insurance       Not rated.                         Achieved. Social insurance system budget
system is improved, as indicated by reduced                                        fell from 12.0 percent of GDP to 9.5 percent
pension expenditures and increased                                                 of GDP from 1996 to 2003 as a result of the
revenues into the Social Insurance budget                                          reform, and enjoyed a surplus of LVL 18.5
                                                                                   million in 2003. Social insurance contribution
                                                                                   rates fell by 5 percent. System revenues
                                                                                   increased substantially, but system
                                                                                   expenditures are higher than originally
                                                                                   projected (see Annex 3). Long term
                                                                                   projections by the Social Insurance
                                                                                   Department show system is on sustainable
                                                                                   path.
1.2 Standard service cost per benefit or        Not rated.                         Partially achieved. The methodology for
contribution reduced by 20 percent from                                            measuring standard service costs was
1997 to 2001 (revised during mid-term review                                       developed in 1999, and a baseline set in
to a reduction of 14 percent from 2001 -                                           2001 of LVL 0.67 per standard service
2004)                                                                              provided. This was reduced in 2003 to LVL
                                                                                   0.59, a reduction of 12.5 percent.
1.3 Rate of client satisfaction increases by 10 Not rated.                         Achieved. The methodology for rating this
percent per year from 1997-2000 (revised                                           was established in 1998, drawing on data
during mid-term review to "80% of clients in                                       from independent sociological and market
2003 are satisfied with the services provided                                      research firms. In 1998, 81 percent of
by SSIA local offices")                                                            clients were satisfied with the quality of
                                                                                   consultations, staff competency, speed of
                                                                                   service, accessibility, information and related
                                                                                   areas. In 2003, SSIA undertook an in-house
                                                                                   evaluation with a modified questionnaire not
                                                                                   directly comparable to the above, and
                                                                                   showing a 92 percent satisfaction rate.
1.4 Number of residents well informed about Not rated.                             Achieved. Four surveys were conducted by
rights and responsibilities increases by 10                                        independent sociological and market
percent by 1999 and a further 15 percent by                                        research firms (1996, 1999, 2002, 2004). In
2000 (this indicator was changed during                                            1996, 43 percent of respondents appeared
mid-term review to "the share of the                                               well informed. This rose to 54 percent in
population well informed about their rights in                                     1999, 75 percent in 2002, and 85 percent in
year 2003 will reach 80%").                                                        2004.
2.1 Private pension plans viewed by public      Not rated.                         Achieved. By mid-2003, 22.7 percent of
as viable savings alternative                                                      second tier insurance participants joined the
                                                                                   second-tier pension system voluntarily, an
                                                                                   increase from 8 percent at end-2002. Total
                                                                                   assets of all private pension funds increased
                                                                                   from LVL 13.3 million in mid-2002 to LVL
                                                                                   18.3 million in mid-2003.
3.1 Introduction of a streamlined benefit       Not rated.                         Achieved. Streamlined benefit system based
system.                                                                            on Guaranteed Minimum Income (GMI)
                                                                                   successfully piloted and implemented in
                                                                                   2002-2003.
3.2 Introduction of central dissemination of    Not rated.                         Achieved. Effective system to exchange
best practice in social assistance delivery                                        information and to disseminate best practice
that is supportive of community-based                                              between MOW and municipalities in place
programs to help the poor and vulnerable.                                          (Yearbook " Social Assistance in Latvia" ,
                                                                                   newsletters issued by the Social Assistance
                                                                                   Fund, Best Practice Handbooks or alternative
                                                                                   care and GMI). Kandava social services pilot
                                                                                   was successfully implemented, and ICR
                                                                                   review found a high level of service delivery.
                                                                                   Program was subject to a mid term and final
                                                                                   evaluation, and is regularly visited by central
                                                                                   and local officials interested in replicating
                                                                                   different programs from the pilot. Kandava
                                                                                   pilot project practice handbook prepared and
                                                                                   disseminated.




                                                                - 38 -

3.3 Introduction of new financing system for Not rated.                                  Not fully achieved. No financing system
institutional care leads to more                                                         functioning yet, but since January 1, 2003 the
non-institutional care being provided in 2002.                                           legal basis in place for new financing
                                                                                         mechanism to be implemented in 2005. At
                                                                                         the same time new alternative ways of
                                                                                         providing care are being developed - the
                                                                                         number of day care centers have increased
                                                                                         from 33 in 2000 to 66 in 2002; number of
                                                                                         children in guardianship has increased from
                                                                                         7,657 in 1998 to 9,591 in 2002.
3.4 By December 1999, recurrent costs per Not rated.                                     Data not comparable, and this indicator
person served at the Kandava pilot are lower                                             proved impossible for the evaluators to
than the recurrent costs per institutionalized                                           assess. Kandava service costs vary by
person.                                                                                  service provided, and these services are not
                                                                                         comparable to those provided by residential
                                                                                         institutions or even most reference
                                                                                         municipalities.
4.1 High quality policy monitoring and         Not rated.                                Social insurance and assistance policy
evaluation in place.                                                                     monitoring and evaluation is of high quality
                                                                                         (annual social reports, social insurance
                                                                                         budget models, etc.)
OUTPUT INDICATORS                              OUTPUT INDICATORS                         OUTPUT INDICATORS
1.1 Policies furthering the Government's       Policies continue to be developed and     Achieved. Economic impact of reform
social insurance policy agenda are developed economic analysis of these policies are of  exceeds PAD projections (see ICR cost
and successfully implemented.                  high quality.                             effectiveness assessment), and SID
                                                                                         projections suggest gains sustainable over
                                                                                         time.
1.2 SID and SSIF business plans                Revisions made in SID plan and are under  Achieved. SID has been reorganized
implemented, including introduction of the     implementation. Implementation successful following the reorganization of the Ministry of
new organization.                              in SSIA.                                  Welfare. It continues to prepare legislative
                                                                                         acts and provide necessary analysis. SID has
                                                                                         successfuly harmonized social legislation in
                                                                                         line with EU regulations. SSIA now a state
                                                                                         institution within the public administration
                                                                                         with completely reorganized managerial
                                                                                         functions (policy, project management, public
                                                                                         information, IT, etc.). Staff have been
                                                                                         reduced from 325 to 245.      Territorial offices
                                                                                         have been reorganized and 85 percent are
                                                                                         fully running according to new standards,
                                                                                         with remainder under way. Access for clients
                                                                                         with special needs has been enhanced.
1.3 Object oriented databases are functional Not implemented due to delays in contract.  Partly achieved. The technological platform
and connected to central databases by                                                    has been replaced in accordance with plan.
12/31/99.                                                                                Local networks are installed. All SSIA offices
                                                                                         are connected to National Data Transmission
                                                                                         Network. 354 work stations upgraded, and
                                                                                         315 procured. An SP/2 server was procured
                                                                                         in 1998 hosting the production environment,
                                                                                         audit databases, and development testing
                                                                                         environments. Staff are trained in new
                                                                                         technologies. However, new platform is not
                                                                                         yet fully integrated as originally envisaged
                                                                                         under the project, and the SSIA IT specialists
                                                                                         are working from a modified central database
                                                                                         with linkages to the SRS, though that linkage
                                                                                         is experiencing time intensive difficulties with
                                                                                         data quality.
1.4 Social tax collection transferred to State Achieved on time and sustained.           Achieved. The administration of social
Revenue Service (SRS) by 1/1/98.                                                         insurance contributions was transferred in
                                                                                         1998 to SRS. The authorities note a
                                                                                         stabilization of arrears as well as revenues.
1.5 New and transparent accounting system Achieved after delay.                          In 1999, the SunSystems centralized
in place for SSIF by 1/98.                                                               accounting system was introduced, which has
                                                                                         led to a centralized accounting organization,
                                                                                         integrity of system data, security, and partial
                                                                                         compliance with international accounting
                                                                                         standards. An accounting manual was




                                                                  - 39 -

                                                                                        prepared. All audit reports for years 1996 to
                                                                                        2001 are unqualified.
2.1 Number of licenses granted, voluntary     Target achieved - 4 Pension Funds and 12  Achieved. Five private pension funds
participants, and publication of an annual    Pension Plans have been licensed covering licensed covering 26,610 participants
report by the Inspectorate.                   more than 5,900 plan members.             (December 31, 2003 data). Annual report
                                                                                        published by Financial and Capital Market
                                                                                        Commission.
2.2 Staff of Inspectorate and of funds use    Achieved.                                 Achieved according to interviews with
newly acquired skills in their work.                                                    Financial and Capital Market Commission
                                                                                        staff in March 2004.
2.3 Number and nature of complaints           Not reviewed due to delays in IT          Still unable to monitor.
received and reviewed.
2.4 Public relations materials disseminated   Achieved as scheduled.                    Achieved and sustained to date.
to public beginning in 1997.
2.5 Inspectorate employs administrative tools Achieved.                                 Achieved and sustained based on March
effectively, such as supervision manuals,                                               2004 ICR interviews with commission staff.
reporting formats, and newly automated fund
monitoring systems.
3.1 New organization and administration of    Organizational effectiveness improved.    Achieved and sustained to date, based on
SAD in place by 1/98.                                                                   March 2004 ICR interviews with SAD staff.
3.2 Over 70 percent of SAD staff apply new Achieved.                                    Achieved according to interviews with SAD
skills and knowledge by 12/01.                                                          staff in March 2004 (no formal percentage
                                                                                        provided).
3.3 Submission to Parliament of legislative   GMI now part of Law.                      Achieved. Streamlined package of social
package on new principles for financing                                                 assistance benefits achieved with passage of
institutional care by end-1997, and                                                     GMI legislation. Package of legislation on
streamlined package of means-tested and                                                 financing of institutional care has been
categorical benefits by mid-1999.                                                       adopted by the Parliament with
                                                                                        implementation to be started in 2005.
3.4 SAD develops and implements a new         Underway.                                 Achieved. New Administrative Procedures
adjudication system by mid-1999 that leads to                                           Law adopted in 2001.( effective since
more uniform benefit delivery.                                                          February 1, 2004). Established rights for
                                                                                        individuals to appeal decisions of central and
                                                                                        local governments, including all social
                                                                                        insurance and social assistance benefits and
                                                                                        services. Creation of administrative courts
                                                                                        are being finalized.
3.5 MoW and municipalities cooperate to       Underway.                                 Achieved with successful implementation of
develop and implement best practice in                                                  Kandava social services pilot. National
service delivery.                                                                       replication in some municipalities is ongoing
                                                                                        but slow, reportedly due to scarce resources
                                                                                        at local level.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
CONTINUED FROM ABOVE                          CONTINUED FROM ABOVE                      CONTINUED FROM ABOVE
3.6 Kandava pilot office begins operations by Achieved. Final evaluation underway.      Achieved (see ICR text).
end-1997, a mid-term evaluation is carried
out by end-1999, and a final evaluation
including a plan for replication by mid-2001.
4.1 Municipalities report monthly to national Underway.                                 SAF has established monitoring system with
level using new administrative monitoring                                               various reporting mechanisms. Municipalities
system (transferred to comp.3 at mid-term)                                              report monthly on separate social service
                                                                                        programs, annually - on social assistance
                                                                                        benefits.
4.2 Ministry provides quarterly feedback      Pending.                                  Partially achieved. As the Case Management
report to municipalities on data system                                                 system has been fully operational only since
(transferred to comp.3 at mid-term)                                                     2003 in Kandava municipality, there is no
                                                                                        complete data system established. SAF owns
                                                                                        the license of the CMS software and is
                                                                                        promoting its use in other municipal social
                                                                                        assistance centers. Currently more than 10
                                                                                        municipalities are using the piloted CMS.
                                                                                        Some feedback on system performance is




                                                                - 40 -

                                                                                               being disseminated to the municipalities
                                                                                               through quarterly newsletters, regular
                                                                                               seminars and best practice handbooks.
4.3 Municipalities employ information to                                                       Municipalities are using the information
improve social assistance administration                                                       provided by the SA department and SAF(best
(excluded at mid-term).                                                                        practice hanbooks, newsletter, seminars).
4.4 Annual Social Report published regularly Achieved. Report has become an important          Achieved. Five reports to date under project.
beginning in 1997.                            monitoring tool.
4.5 10 MoW staff trained in evaluation        Achieved.                                        Achieved and sustained.
methods.
4.6 Evidence of active references to the      Public discussions initiated on the basis of     Achieved as per last PSR.
Report by policymakers and the public.        the ASR. Also spill-overs can be seen in the
                                              public discussions on policy initiatives to
                                              address poverty, benefits to families with
                                              children and gender equality.
4.7 Staff use skills in social policy design, Staff use their skills increasingly to formulate Achieved, per interviews with staff in March
monitoring and evaluation.                    new laws and evaluate and monitor existing       2004, and evidenced by preparation and
                                              ones.                                            successful implementation of key legislative
                                                                                               packages on social policy (Law on State
                                                                                               Funded Pensions, GMI, Law on Social
                                                                                               Services and Social Assisstance).
4.8 At least 50 percent of major conceptual                                                    Public discussion initiated on the basis of
proposals of social policy issues are                                                          ASR. Also spill overs can be seen in the
discussed in public by 1999 (excluded at                                                       public discussions on policy initiatives to
mid-term).                                                                                     address poverty, benefits to families with
                                                                                               children and gender equality.Latvian current
                                                                                               Government practice is to engage public
                                                                                               dialogue on 100 percent of policy initiatives,
                                                                                               including social policy.
4.9 Capacity of research institutes                                                            MOW has implemented transparent
developed; high quality social policy research                                                 procedures for social policy research.
meeting international standards is performed                                                   Quality of proposals continuously increasing.
(excluded at mid-term)
5.1 Resources procured in conformity with     Achieved. No complaints from bidders or          Achieved as per last PSR. No major red
all specifications, and in accordance with    misprocurement.                                  flags in project supervision files.
World Bank guidelines.
5.2 Project accounts provide a reliable basis Achieved.                                        Achieved. No major red flags in project
for financial management and planning.                                                         supervision files. All project audits
                                                                                               unqualified.

1End of project




                                                                   - 41 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component A. Social Insurance Development                   26.41           26.81          101.51
Component B. Privately Managed Pensions                      0.40             0.28              70
Component C. Social Assistance                               2.51             2.61         103.98
Component D. Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy      1.62             0.62           38.27
Component E. Project Coordination                            0.97             0.74           76.29

Total Baseline Cost                                         31.91           31.06
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.08
 Price Contingencies                                         3.57
                        Total Project Costs                 38.56           31.06
                  Total Financing Required                  38.56           31.06


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              3.01         0.00          5.43         8.44
                                  (0.00)           (2.93)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (2.93)
2. Goods                          5.84              0.00         1.51          0.97         8.32
                                  (5.84)           (0.00)      (1.23)          (0.00)       (7.07)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00        15.60          0.34         15.94
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.10)          (0.00)       (8.10)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.15          5.70         5.85
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          5.84              3.01        17.26          12.44        38.55
                                  (5.84)           (2.93)      (9.33)          (0.00)      (18.10)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             1.74         0.00           0.00        1.74
                                  (0.00)          (0.63)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.63)
2. Goods                          12.36            0.00         0.25           0.00        12.62
                                  (5.03)          (0.00)       (0.13)         (0.00)       (5.15)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         1.87           2.43        4.30
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.14)         (1.79)       (2.93)
4. Miscellaneous



                                                - 42 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               12.36              1.74              2.13             2.43             18.66
                                          (5.03)             (0.63)            (1.27)            (1.79)           (8.72)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component A. Social           16.44        11.74         3.97        8.59         15.46      2.76       52.3     131.7     69.5
Insurance Development
Component B. Privately         0.09         0.00         0.35        0.00         0.00       0.28        0.0      0.0      80.0
Managed Pensions
Component C. Social            0.75         0.65         1.50        0.60         0.27       1.74       80.0      41.5    116.0
Assistance
Component D. Monitoring        0.30         0.32         1.27        0.18         0.12       0.32       60.0      37.5     25.2
and Evaluation of Social
Policy
Component E. Project           0.53         0.06         0.58        0.04         0.02       0.68        7.5      33.3    117.2
Coordination




                                                          - 43 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


         The PAD undertook an economic analysis, but only for the first component (social
insurance reform), which was 83.4 percent of total projected project costs at appraisal. It was
anticipated that the pension reform would lead to a savings of 2 percent of GDP over ten years.
The savings by 2003 were much greater than originally projected (2.5 percent of GDP), with the
system in 2003 in surplus by LVL 18.5 million (approximately US$33.9 million equivalent), even
as average pensions have been increasing. This one year surplus alone well exceeds the total
amount of the loan financing of the operation. System revenues were greater than projected in
the PAD, increasing by LVL 141 million (approximately US$258 million equivalent) against the
PAD's projection of LVL 72.4 million (approximately US$132.5 million equivalent)..
Expenditures, however, were also higher by LVL 116 million (approximately US$212.3 million
equivalent), instead of falling by the projected LVL 38 million (approximately US$69.3 million
equivalent). While a non-reform scenario was not calculated for this ICR, in 2003, each
percentage savings of GDP in Latvia was equivalent to LVL 58.7 million (approximately
US$107.4 million at current exchange rates). The Social Insurance Department did calculate that
in the absence of reform, social insurance contributions would have to rise by ten percent by
2050. Clearly, in economic terms, the reform that this project has been supporting has had
significant results.

Table: Basic Data on Latvia's Social Insurance System (1996-2003)
    Item         1996          1997      1998        1999       2000    2001     2002       2003
State Social
 Insurance       327.9        393.4      438.3      460.2       474.6   489.5   536.5       578.9
  revenues
  (million
   LVL,
   actual)
State Social
 Insurance       337.2        372.5      444.2      515.7       503.8   498.8   534.9       560.6
expenditure
 s (million
   LVL,
   actual)
State Social
 Insurance        12.0         11.4       12.4       13.3        11.6   10.4     10.3        9.5
Budget as %
    GDP
 Number of
  Insured        972.8        950.6      963.4      996.0      1003.3  1018.8   1016.2     1049.0
  Persons
(thousands)
  Average
  Old Age         38.3         42.6       51.6       58.9        59.8   60.3     62.8       65.2
  Pension
   (LVL,
  month)
Source: Social Insurance Department




                                                    - 44 -

        The PAD projected an unspecified reduction in the payroll contribution rate. This did
materialize, with the global rate falling from 38 percent to 33 percent in 2003. All else being
equal, this meant that individuals and businesses enjoyed contribution savings of roughly LVL 25
million (roughly US$45.8 million equivalent) in 2003 alone.


                   Social Insurance Budget, millions of lats in 2002
                                            constant prices

 1 800

 1 600                                                                                   Revenues
 1 400                                                                                   without loans
                                                                                         and interests
 1 200

 1 000

   800

   600                                                                                   Expenditures
                                                                                         without
   400                                                                                   repayment of

   200                                                                                   loans and
                                                                                         interests
      0


     2002 2007 2012 2017 2022 2027 2032 2037 2042 2047 2052 2057 2062 2067 2072 2077


        The PAD anticipated administrative cost savings that would equal the investment costs
after 6.7 years. While the quality of information handling has improved dramatically, and benefit
processing times have been reduced to the project target of less than one day, it is also the case
that the envisaged staff reductions did not materialize due to the delays in implementation of the
IT activities. SSIA does report a staff reduction of roughly eighty central office positions, and a
reduction in per service costs from LVL 0.67 to LVL 0.59 from 1999 to 2003 (12.5 percent).
Total administrative costs as a percentage of total expenditures have been roughly 2 percent.

        The Social Insurance Department (SID) notes that the NDC financial incentives for later
retirement have not led to a notable increase in postponed retirement, and attributes this to high
unemployment. Future retirement age increases might need to be considered, in the view of the
SID.

        The PAD also anticipated that 1 percent of GDP would be allocated to privately managed
pension accounts by 2005, with an associated positive impact on national savings. The level was
closer to 0.43 percent of GDP in 2003 (LVL 25.5 million), but contribution levels are growing
rapidly (a schedule of rate increases for the second tier will increase the contribution levels from 2
percent today to 10 percent in 2010) and this target might possibly be met by 2005.



                                                   - 45 -

        Some indirect economic impact resulted from the transfer of collection functions from the
social insurance system to the State Revenue Service. Employers now have only one tax
collection agency, rather than the processing and inspection burdens that come with two. Both
SRS and SSIA staff note that collections and arrears have stabilized as well, but no supportive
quantitative evidence was provided to the ICR mission.

        As noted above, it proved difficult to undertake a proper social assistance cost
effectiveness evaluation that would show a recurrent cost reduction per client as compared to
residential institutions (see section 4.1). However, the PAD did not assert any fiscal savings from
the Kandava pilot.

        The social policy monitoring and evaluation activities also were not linked to direct fiscal
savings, but to qualitative improvements in policy development and implementation. The
non-component scenario in the cost effectiveness section of the PAD (badly targeted social policy,
wasted resources and increased expenditures, demotivated Ministry staff and a brain drain) did
not materialize.




                                                - 46 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation/Pre-
 appraisal                                6    MISSION LEADER (1);
              11/30/1992                       DEPUTY MISSION LEADER
                                               (1); ECONOMIST(2); SOCIAL
                                               PROTECTION (1); HEALTH
                                               FINANCE (1);
              05/03/1993                11     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               DEPUTY MISSION LEADER
                                               (1); TRAINING SPECIALIST
                                               (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               HEALTH FINANCE (1);
                                               LABOUR MARKET(2);
                                               POVERTY (1); SOCIAL
                                               ASSISTANCE (1); SOCIAL
                                               SECTOR (1); HEALTH
                                               ECONOMIST (1)
              11/06/1993                  7    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               HEALTH AND OPERATIONS
                                               (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               HEALTH FINANCE (1);
                                               LABOUR ECONOMIST (1);
                                               POVERTY (1); SOCIAL
                                               INSURANCE (1)
              02/14/1994                  5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               HEALTH AND OPERATIONS
                                               (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               SOCIAL SERVICES (1);
                                               OPERATIONS (1)
              06/06/1994                  5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               HEALTH ECONOMIST(1);
                                               SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               SOCIAL SERVICES (1);
                                               OPERATIONS (1)
              04/03/1995                  5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               SOCIAL INSURANCE (1);
                                               SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               BUDGET MODEL (1);
                                               PENSION SPECIALIST (1)
              09/06/1995                  6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                               MONITORING AND
                                               EVALUATION (1); PRIVATE
                                               PENSIONS SPECIALIST (1);
                                               SOCIAL INSURANCE
                                               ADMINISTRATION (1);
                                               SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                                               SOCIAL INSURANCE




                                                - 47 -

                            ECONOMIST (1);
           01/18/1996    12 MISSION LEADER (1);
                            PRIVATE PENSIONS
                            SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                            INSURANCE
                            ADMINISTRATION (4);
                            SOCIAL PROTECTION (1);
                            SOCIAL INSURANCE
                            ECONOMIST (1); BUDGET
                            MODEL (1); PENSION
                            SPECIALIST (1); STRATEGIC
                            PLANNING (1); PUBLIC
                            INFORMAITON (1)
           05/27/1996    5  MISSION LEADER (1);
                            MONITORING AND
                            EVALUATION (1); PRIVATE
                            PENSIONS SPECIALIST (1);
                            SOCIAL INSURANCE
                            ADMINISTRATION (1);
                            SOCIAL PROTECTION (1)

Appraisal/Negotiation

           06/25/1997    7  INFORMATION
                            TECHNOLOGY (1); MISSION
                            LEADER (1); PROJECT
                            ACCOUNTING (1); SOCIAL
                            ASSISTANCE (1); PRIVATE
                            PENSIONS (1); PROJECT
                            MANAGEMENT (1); SOCIAL
                            INSURANCE (1)

Supervision

           10/10/1997     7 INFORMATION                 HS    HS
                            TECHNOLOGY (1); MISSION
                            LEADER (1); PROJECT
                            ACCOUNTING (1); SOCIAL
                            ASSISTANCE (1); PRIVATE
                            PENSIONS (1); PROJECT
                            MANAGEMENT (1); SOCIAL
                            INSURANCE (1)
           04/29/1998     8 MISSION LEADER (1);         HS    HS
                            INFORMATION
                            TECHNOLOGY (1); PROJECT
                            MANAGEMENT (2); SOCIAL
                            ASSISTANCE (1); PRIVATE
                            PENSIONS (1); SOCIAL
                            INSURANCE (1); FACILITIES
                            (1)
           12/18/1998     6 MISSION LEADER (1);         HS    HS
                            SOCIAL INSURANCE (1);
                            PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1);
                            POLICY MONITORING (1);



                            - 48 -

                                               PRIVATE PENSIONS (1);
                                               DEPUTY MISSION LEADER
                                               (1)
               05/27/1999                  5   MISSION LEADER (1);               HS    HS
                                               DEPUTY MISSION LEADER
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
               05/27/1999                  5   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                                               DEPUTY MISSION LEADER
                                               (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1); SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                               SPEC (1); INFORMATION
                                               TECH. SPEC (1)
               05/27/1999                  4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                               IT SPECIALIST (1)
               05/11/2001                  5   TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD              S    S
                                               ECONOMIST (1); IT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                               PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR
               03/04/2004                 3     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                                SPECIALIST (1);
                                                PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation/Pre-           67.4                           276
  appraisal
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    102.2                           419
  Supervision                              182.2                           747
  ICR                                       14.5                            32
  Total                                    298.9                          1474
Total preparation costs were US$695,000




                                                - 49 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
  Macro policies                         H       SU    M       N      NA
  Sector Policies                        H       SU    M       N      NA
  Physical                               H       SU    M       N      NA
  Financial                              H       SU    M       N      NA
  Institutional Development              H       SU    M       N      NA
  Environmental                          H       SU    M       N      NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction             H       SU    M       N      NA
           Gender                        H       SU    M       N      NA
           Other (Please specify)        H       SU    M       N      NA
  Private sector development             H       SU    M       N      NA
  Public sector management               H       SU    M       N      NA
  Other (Please specify)                 H       SU    M       N      NA


Note: There is some negligible support to the PSD rating through the second/third tiers. This will likely grow in
importance as the reform matures.




                                                     - 50 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Welfare Reform Project Operational Manual
 -- Project Implementation Plan
 -- Cost tables and accounts
 -- Procurement/disbursement arrangements
 -- Implementation agreements
 -- Social Policy Research Program by-laws and procedures
 -- Project Terms of Reference
 -- Business Plans for the Social Insurance Fund, Social Assistance Department, Social Insurance
Department

Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiations/Supervision Aide-Memoires

Project Status Reports

"Latvia: The Quest for Jobs and Growth -- A World Bank Country Economic Memorandum," January 9,
2004

"Latvia: Pubic Expenditure Review," February 15, 2002

"Latvia: Beyond Territorial Reform" (Washington, DC: World Bank, August 2003)

"Latvia: Local Government Expenditures and Resource Transfers" (Washington, D.C.: World Bank, July
1995)

"Latvian Pension Reform," Louise Fox and Edward Palmer, August 1999

"Kandava Pilot Project Evaluation" 2000, 2002

"Development of Non-Bank Financial Institutions and Capital Markets in European Union Accession
Countries," World Bank Working Paper No. 28 (Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2004)

"Final Report on Sub-components 'Administration Development,' 'Organization Development' and
'Development of Information Technologies' of Component 'Social Insurance Development' of Welfare
System's Reform Project (unpublished paper, Riga, Latvia: State Social Insurance Agency, 2004).

"White Paper on Social Assistance," January 1997




                                                  - 52 -

- 53 -

