Report No. PIC2827
Project Name                   Latvia-Welfare Reform Project (@)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Social Sector Adjustment
Project ID                     LVPA35807
Borrower                       Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Welfare
Ms. Vineta Fortina, Director
Project Coordination Unit
Ministry of Welfare
Riga, Latvia
Tel: 3712-270-667
Fax: 712-276-445
Date Initial PID Prepared      October 18, 1995
Date This PID Prepared         March 17, 1997
Appraisal Date                 2/11/97
Projected Board Date           05/13/97
Country and Sector Background
1.     Latvia, with a population of about 3 million, regained
independence in september 1991 after the dissolution of the soviet
union. Prior to 1991, the republic developed a relatively
sophisticated industrial base and skilled work force, but underwent
severe economic and social shocks with the abandonment of central
planning and the disruption of trade links with the other
republics. Per capita gnp was estimated at $2,420 in 1995. Life
expectancy at birth in 1993 was 69.0, with a female advantage over
men of 11.6 years. The country is now implementing a comprehensive
market-oriented reform program, including the development of a
modern and well targeted social safety net system.
2.      By 1993, Latvia realized that the social protection system
inherited from the Soviet period was: (a) too expensive given
current fiscal resources; (b) inequitable; (c) non-transparent,
encouraging rent-seeking behavior; and (d) lacking the flexibility
needed during the transition. In 1995, the Parliament passed a
comprehensive new set of legislation governing cash benefits and
non-cash social assistance to families, covering: (i) social
assistance, (ii) unemployment benefits; (iii) pension benefits;
(iv) work injury benefits; (v) sickness and maternity leave, and
(vi) social insurance financing. In social assistance, the
legislation was designed to implement Latvia's plan to decentralize
social services. In social insurance, the goal was to tie benefits
more closely to contributions. Included in this legislative package
was the first step in a fundamental reform of the pension system:
creating a new, three tier system with increased reliance on
individual savings efforts (privately managed) for income



replacement in old age. In 1996, three additional pieces of
legislation regulating the welfare system were submitted to
Parliament. The first was legislation creating the regulatory
framework for licensing and supervising privately-managed pensions.
The second was a piece of consolidating legislation, rationalizing
coverage and contribution rates across insurance programs and
adopting standard definitions. This legislation sets the stage for
the transfer of the administration of social insurance contribution
collection (the social tax) to the State Revenue Service (SRS).
Finally, a new disability pension formula was put in place,
harmonizing this system with the rest of the reforms.
3.      Implementing this ambitious policy agenda will be a five year
task. Policy-making and administrative agencies need to be
transformed to handle their new responsibilities. For example, in
order for the incentives in contribution-based system to function,
individual accounts must be established and maintained by the
social insurance agency. Regulatory agencies must be strengthened
to insure that financial intermediaries investing pension funds are
protecting the safety and security of assets. Municipalities need
support to assume their new responsibilities. The ministry of
welfare needs to develop effective monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms in order to track progress towards policy objectives,
and to improve the ability to develop effective policies in the
future.
Project Objectives
4.      The project objective is to support the development of a more
efficient and effective social welfare system. As a result of the
policy reforms already approved but not yet implemented, as well as
those to be developed and implemented during the project period,
Latvia should have a modern, affordable social insurance and old-
age security system. Progress in achieving this development
objective will be evaluated on the basis of the following: (a) the
Government's social insurance reforms will have been successfully
implemented; (b) a client-oriented social insurance administration
will be implemented, measured by improvements in cost efficiency,
processing speed and accuracy, improved external accountability and
transparency, effective internal monitoring and evaluation, uniform
handling of legislation and good client service, and flexibility to
introduce new regulations; (c) private pension plans will become
professionally supervised, financially stable, and viewed by the
public as a viable savings alternative; (d) more efficient and
effective delivery of social assistance will occur, including an
increase in the number of clients of programs that provide
alternatives to institutionalization of vulnerable groups; (e) high
quality and professional policy monitoring and evaluation will
become the norm, with Government and Parliament drawing on applied
social policy research outputs such as a new annual Social Report,
in their work; and (e) efficient and timely implementation of the
project will occur.
Project Description
-2-



5.      This project will support the implementation of the
government's welfare reform program. Items to be financed include
equipment, civil works, and foreign and local technical assistance
and training. The five agreed components are:
Component 1: Social Insurance Development
The objective is the efficient and effective development,
management and administration of social insurance policy.
Subcomponent A. Improving Policy Design: This subcomponent supports
the design and implementation of strategically oriented policy by
the Social Insurance Department (SID), and the development and
implementation of the second tier legislation. It will assist the
SID to present clearly and transparently the strategic goals of
policy, to revise the policy strategy on an annual basis, to draft
appropriate system regulations in a timely fashion, and to
implement a Business Plan aimed at (a) clarifying the respective
roles of the SID and the SSIF; and (b) improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the SID's work methods.
Subcomponent B. Developing System Administration: This subcomponent
supports the implementation of the social insurance reforms by
improving the recording of revenues and benefit administration. It
will develop and introduce administrative procedures that are
consistent with the new legislation, and revise the layout of the
local social insurance offices in order to improve client service.
Subcomponent C. Supporting Organizational Change: The objective of
this subcomponent is to support the ability of the SSIF to
undertake its core functions. A business plan has been drafted by
the SSIF, and a preliminary audit and accounting prestudy is to be
revised.
Subcomponent D. Supporting Information Technology: The objective of
this subcomponent is to support the introduction of hardware and
software in order to meet the automation needs of the new system.
Component 2: Regulation of Privately Managed Pensions
The objective is to provide safe and supervised options for the
Latvian public to make personal provisions for retirement through
privately-managed personal savings schemes. This component will
assist the Ministry with legislative development, improved system
supervision, enhanced system communication, training to those who
will be involved in the management and supervision of private
pension funds, and the implementation of appropriate standards for
reporting and accounting requirements for private pension plans.
Component 3: Social Assistance Administration
The objective of this component is to ensure that all needy receive
effective and efficient social services. The project will improve
the performance of the Ministry of Welfare Social Assistance
Department in developing social assistance policy, and the
- 3-



municipalities in delivering local level services. A pilot social
assistance office in Kandava region will seek to demonstrate best
practice in service delivery, and disseminate lessons learned
throughout Latvia.
Component 4: Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy
The objective of this component is to ensure that Government,
Parliament and society are regularly informed about the impact of
social policies by developing adequate organizational potential,
and human and material resources in the MW to design, implement,
monitor and evaluate social policy. The component will support the
development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the MW
social policy agenda. It will improve the allocation of human and
financial resources within the Ministry through improved internal
and external organization and communication. The component will
strengthen the capacity to develop a workable social policy
strategy. It will also strengthen local capacity to prepare high
quality social policy analysis through training for the staff of
the MW and for researchers in the field.
Component 5: Project Coordination
This component will ensure the effective provision of support and
efficient management of the project in order to achieve the welfare
reform project goals.
Project Financing
6.      After appraisal, the total project costs were estimated to be
about us$40 million equivalent, excluding taxes and duties. The
bank's loan of us$16.8 million (representing about 42 percent of
total financing requirements) will contribute about 50 percent of
foreign costs and about 37 percent of local costs. Counterpart
financing of about us$14.2 million (representing about 36 percent
of the total project cost) will be provided by the government. The
government is seeking grant financing for the balance.
Project Implementation
7.      Project preparation has been facilitated by extensive
technical assistance on policy reform and implementation by a team
of consultants from the swedish national social insurance board. As
part of that technical assistance, the ministry prepared an
analysis of the implementation challenges the new legislation
poses. Working groups have been organized to prepare project
components. These working groups have been supported through the
whole preparation process by the swedish team, financed by the
swedish government (sida). Preparation has also been facilitated by
a phrd grant, which has financed the development of a new household
survey instrument. The monitoring and evaluation component has
received a substantial commitment of donor support over three years
through a joint government of the netherlands/undp program.
8.      During preparation, two project workshops were held with all
- 4 -



MoW management and staff involved in the project, as well as
representatives from other concerned ministries and stakeholders,
to discuss and agree on project objectives, activities, and
monitoring plans. One of these workshops was facilitated to
encourage counterpart participation. All main components have
prepared their own strategy documents as part of the preparation
process. A project PCU has been established and is managing the
project well, including the execution of a special trust fund. In
addition, a Project Preparation Facility has been agreed and
signed.
9.      Specific performance indicators for monitoring each
component's progress have been developed. A system for conducting
periodic implementation progress reports and joint annual and mid-
term reviews has been established.
Project Sustainability
10.     This project will develop the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Welfare and the State Social Insurance Fund. It is
expected to be both cost-saving and quality enhancing. Borrower
ownership is high, owing to the extent of participation in
preparation activities: (i) Social insurance. The improvements in
systems, processes and facilities will permit improved performance
at a lower cost per standardized benefit. These efficiency
improvements, combined with an improved financial position of the
social insurance budget from implementation of the policy reforms,
will ensure project sustainability; (ii) Privately-managed
pensions. Initially, the costs of the supervisory system will be
paid for by the state budget. However, by the end of the project
period, licensing fees will be imposed on pension funds to recover
the annual recurrent costs of the system; (iii) Social assistance.
The component supports the development of more cost-effective
approaches to assisting vulnerable groups. Ongoing monitoring and
evaluation activities will help to ensure sustainable models are
developed; and (iv) Monitoring and evaluation. At the end of the
project, a research network will be established that is sustainable
beyond the life-time of the proposed activities. The acquired
skills and attitudes in the training will be passed on to new civil
servants and will be useful in the future, although it may be
necessary to update the knowledge continuously.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
11.     Successful projects in the social sectors are usually
characterized by (i) a supportive policy framework, assessed by the
bank prior to project preparation; (ii) a high degree of local
ownership, including of project stakeholders; and (iii) well-
prepared implementation plans, with clear and monitorable goals.
Latvia's recent reforms provided the supportive policy framework.
The bank has been assessing these reforms continuously over the
last year. Attention and effort has been devoted to developing
ownership by the counterparts of project objectives, activities,
and outputs. Stakeholders are involved at the local and central
levels for the preparation of the social assistance and social
- 5-



insurance components. Monitoring and evaluation of program impact
is being developed in the preparation stage through the creation of
a new household survey instrument and by the formulation of a
survey user training program.
Poverty Category
12.    The social assistance and monitoring and evaluation
components specifically target the poorest and most vulnerable
populations in Latvia.
Program Objective Category
13.     Poverty Alleviation (PA).
Participatory Approach:*
Identification/Preparation    Implementation   Operation
Beneficiaries/
community groups                 COL                     COL           COL
Intermediary NGOs/
Academic institutions            COL                     COL           COL
Local government                 COL                     COL           COL
Other donors                     COL                     COL           COL
*COL (collaboration); IS (information sharing); CON (consultation)
Environmental Aspects
14.     Environmental category c ("no appreciable environmental
impact") has been provided consistent with the provisions of
operational directive 4.01, annex e. The proposed project is not
expected to have a negative environmental impact.
Project Benefits
15.     Social insurance: The component will allow the State Social
Insurance Fund to implement the social insurance reform program.
This reform improves the affordability and equity of the social
safety net and also improves resource allocation while increasing
public savings. Implementation of most of this reform would be
impossible without the proposed investments. The fiscal impact by
the end of the project period from full implementation of the
welfare reform program is expected to be over 2.5 percent of
projected GDP. Investments in component 1 will result in
administrative cost savings equal to the investment cost after 6.7
years. In addition, benefit processing time will fall from up to 2
weeks, to less than 1 day, with a lower error rate, saving clients'
time. The automated system will also save taxpayers time, as forms
will be simplified and filed electronically.
16.     Regulation of privately managed pensions: This component will
increase old age security by providing a safe and secure place for
savings for old age. The system should be of benefit to all
workers. The privately managed pension system in Latvia may have as
- 6-



much as 1 percent of GDP under management beginning in 1998. This
is expected to grow and will reach an estimated 20 percent of GDP
by the year 2025 through mandatory and voluntary contributions.
17.     Social assistance: The project activities will strengthen the
capacity of the national government to assist localities in
targeting and assisting the poor, including providing poor and
vulnerable groups with services that are more responsive to their
needs during the transition to market. Successful replication of
the Kandava pilot will improve the quality of life and productivity
of individuals in danger of isolation, homelessness, or
institutionalization.
18.     Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy: In 1995, total
government expenditures on social insurance and assistance amounted
to 14.9 percent of the Latvian Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but
the effectiveness of this spending is not known. Weak evaluation
capacity results in imprecise assessments of social policy options,
resulting in policies that fail to achieve their goals. Improved
social policy monitoring and evaluation will allow policy-makers to
identify groups that are the most vulnerable and to design and
implement effective policy responses. Better targeted social policy
should reduce poverty and improve the efficiency of public
spending.
Project Risks
19.     Social Insurance:        A major shift in policy direction in Latvia
could undermine the achievement of the development objectives. A
number of activities are in place to strengthen
institutionalization of the policy reforms: (i) the SSIF has
prepared and is implementing a communications program on the new
pension system and the SSIF organizational development; (ii)
monitoring and evaluation activities are being strengthened to
track the fiscal and social impact of welfare policy; (iii)
technical assistance activities have strengthened the policy making
and implementation capacity in the Ministry; and (iv) should policy
adjustments occur, SSIF business is now being organized in a way
that will allow the maximum possible flexibility in benefit
delivery -- organizational response time to policy change should be
rapid.
20.     Social assistance:       Replication of lessons learned at the
Kandava pilot could be hampered by municipalities incorporating
only some pilot features in order to save costs. The pilot's final
evaluation will therefore include a financing study aimed at
facilitating suitable replication, including the examination of
appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.
21.     Monitoring and evaluation:       Inadequate internal
communication and coordination may limit the effectiveness of
training and technical assistance activities. All Ministry
departments and agencies concerned have thus been involved in the
preparation of this component. The Ministry has also requested
technical assistance from EU PHARE to improve communication in the
- 7-



Ministry.
Contact Point:           Louise Fox, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 473-2462 (tel)
(202) 522-1179 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 8 -



