Page  1
CONFORMED COPY              
LOAN NUMBER 4154 LV
Loan Agreement
(Welfare Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4154 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
contract from other external sources (the Cofinanciers) grants (the Grants) in an 
aggregate amount equivalent to about 12,890,000 Deutsche Mark on the terms and 
conditions set forth in agreements (the Grant Agreements) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Cofinanciers;
(C)
Parts A (2), (3) and (4) of the Project will be carried out by the State 
Social Insurance Fund of the Borrower with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to said Fund a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
       (D)
Part C (2) of the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of 
Kandava with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to the Municipality of Kandava a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
      (a)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with respect to any 
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the B
ank determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the 
Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant 
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be canceled.” 
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)
“Automation Plans” means the plans to be adopted by the Borrower to 
determine the procedures to be followed for installation of computer equipment under 
the Project and for training of personnel on the use thereof referred to in paragraph 
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (b)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic Germany;
      (c)
“Implementation Protocol” means the protocol referred to in 
Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement;
      (d)
“Kandava Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Municipality of Kandava pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Kandava Subsidiary Agreement;
      (e)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
      (f)
“MOW” means the Ministry of Welfare of the Borrower;
      (g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 6.01(c) of 
this Agreement, to be adopted by the Borrower for managing the organization and 
Page  3
implementation of the Project;
      (h)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by MOW and referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 
4, 1996, and October 18, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
      (k)
“SSIF” means the State Social Insurance Fund of the Borrower, established 
and operating in accordance with the SSIF Regulations (as hereinafter defined) and 
such term includes any successor thereto;
      (l)
“SSIF Regulations” means the Regulations of the State Social Insurance 
Fund dated April 23, 1996, and issued by the Cabinet of Ministers under Ruling No. 
151;
      (m)
“SSIF Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SSIF pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
SSIF Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (n)
“Subsidiary Agreements” means the Kandava Subsidiary Agreement and the 
SSIF Subsidiary Loan Agreement and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided 
thereunder.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million four hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DEM 30,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
DEM a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Parts A(1), B, C(1) and (3), (D) and (E) of the Project; (ii) shall cause 
SSIF to carry out Parts A(2), (3) and (4) of the Project; and (iii) shall cause the 
Municipality of Kandava to carry out Part C(2) of the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project;
      (b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure the carrying out of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)
For the purposes of Parts A(2), (3) and (4) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 1(a), 
2(b) and 3(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SSIF 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SSIF 
(the SSIF Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
             (i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be
repaid by SSIF to the Borrower in DEM in semi-annual
installments over the same period and on the same dates
specified for repayment of the Loan according to
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (ii)
SSIF shall pay:
      (A)
a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of
the Subsidiary Loan at the same rate for commitment
charge on the Loan according to Section 2.04 of this
Agreement; and
      (B)
interest on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate
equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from time to
time on the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement.
      (d)
For the purposes of Part C(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall conclude 
an agreement with the Municipality of Kandava (the Kandava Subsidiary Agreement) 
whereby the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories 1(b) and 
2(c) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be made 
available to the Municipality of Kandava on terms and conditions which shall have been 
agreed upon with the Bank.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  5
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be carried out through the PCU and shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
       (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
       (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower (including the Municipality of Kandava) responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)
The Borrower shall:
             (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section including those for the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such
records; and
            (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SSIF to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
      (b) 
The Borrower shall cause SSIF to:
             (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank;
             (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each
such year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
            (iii)
provide the Bank, within two months of furnishing the
audit report referred to in the preceding paragraph 
(ii), with a statement as to the comments, if any, 
contained in said report and the action to be taken by '
SSIF to address such comments; and
             (iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
such records, accounts and financial statements and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The SSIF Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SSIF to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project.
       (b)
Grant Agreements providing for an amount equivalent to not less than DEM 
9,000,000 shall have failed to become effective by January 1, 2000, or such later date 
as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
       (c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the '
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
      (a)
the SSIF Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and SSIF; 
      (b)
the Implementation Protocol regulating the matters referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been executed on behalf of MOF and 
MOW; and 
      (c)
the Borrower has adopted an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the SSIF Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SSIF and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and SSIF in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV -1919
Republic of Latvia
Telex:
161 232 NAUDA LV
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Ojars Kalnins
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the            % of
                   Loan Allocated        Expenditures
Category
           (Expressed in DEM)
to be Financed
(1)  Works
                                  82%
       (a)  for Part A(2)
         3,530,000
     of the Project
       (b)  for Part C(2) of the
    400,000
      Project
(2)  Goods
                                  100% of foreign
                           expenditures, 100% of
       (a)  for Parts A(1), B,
    700,000
       local expenditures,
      C(1), C(3), D(2)
              (ex-factory cost) and
      and E of the Project
              82% of local expen-
                           ditures for other
items
       (b)  for Parts A(2), (3) 
  9,160,000
       procured locally
      and (4) of the 
      Project
       (c)  for Part C(2) of the
    125,000
      Project
(3)  Consultants’ services
                    100%
       (a)  for Parts A, B,
  1,170,000
     C(1), C(3) and
     E of the Project
       (b)  for Parts A(2), (3)
  7,000,000
     and (4) of the
     Project
       (c)  for Part C(2)
           35,000
     of the Project
Page  9
(4)  Refunding of 
               3,331,000
      Amounts due 
     Project Preparation
                   pursuant to 
     Advance
                                Section 2.02(c)
     of this Agreement
(5)  Unallocated
               4,949,000
               _________
TOTAL
                     30,400,000
        ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of DEM 1,255,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 31, 1997; (b) payments under Categories 1(b), 2(c) and 3(c) 
unless the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Kandava Subsidiary 
Agreement, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and the Municipality of Kandava; and (c) payments under Categories 1(a) and 
1(b) unless the Bank has received a civil works plan satisfactory to the Bank for the 
civil works to be financed under such Category.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for works under contracts costing 
less than DEM 330,000 equivalent; (ii) for goods under contracts costing less than 
DEM 640,000 equivalent; and (iii) for services under contracts costing less than 
DEM 170,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts 
costing less than DEM 85,000 equivalent for the employment of individual consultants, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist in the development of a 
well-functioning social welfare system through the implementation of reform measures 
designed to improve the formulation and implementation of social insurance policies, 
create a framework for optional, privately managed pension systems and increase the 
effectiveness of the social safety net system.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Social Insurance Development
(1)
Assistance to MOW in the development and implementation of social insurance 
policies through the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.
(2)
Assistance to central and local offices of SSIF in benefit administration and 
contribution recording through the provision of technical assistance, training, 
equipment and carrying out of works to improve SSIF office facilities.
(3)
Provision of assistance to SSIF in: (a) improving its organizational structure; 
(b) establishing administrative procedures; (c) establishing a communications 
strategy; and (d) developing a human resources strategy, through the provision of 
technical assistance and training.
Page  10
(4)
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training and carrying out of works 
to support SSIF in the introduction of information technology.
Part B:
Privately-Managed Pension Systems
Provision of assistance to MOF in the development of the regulatory framework 
for privately-managed pension plans, including development of supervisory systems and 
communications strategy, rules and reporting and accounting requirements for such 
plans and training of staff involved in the management and supervision thereof.
Part C:
Social Assistance Administration
(1)
Development of social assistance policy and administration in MOW, including and 
the provision of equipment, training and technical assistance.
(2)
Provision of goods and technical assistance for the implementation of a pilot 
system for social assistance policy development and administration in the Municipality 
of Kandava and carrying out of works to rehabilitate social assistance administration 
office facilities in the Municipality of Kandava.
(3)
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities within MOW in respect of 
the implementation of Part C(2) of the Project.
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Policy
(1)
Provision of technical assistance and training for the establishment of an 
effective data collection system and improvement of local monitoring and evaluation 
capabilities.
(2)
Establishment and implementation of a mechanism within MOW for the production 
and dissemination to governmental agencies, the Parliament and the public of an annual 
report on social policy.
(3)
Provision of technical assistance and training to MOW and other specialists in 
social policy to develop a capacity to monitor, analyze and evaluate the impact of 
social policy.
(4)
Establishment and implementation of a Social Policy Research Program within MOW 
to commission, select, review and disseminate studies on the implementation of the 
Borrower’s social policy agenda.
(5)
Provision of assistance and training to assist the PCU in Project coordination.
***
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
      For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
      (a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
      (b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
      (c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
Page  11
      (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
             (i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
            (ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
             (i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
            (ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
      (a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Deutsche Mark for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
             (i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); and
     (ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period, as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Mark for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
      (d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
             (i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
            (ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
Page  12
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
     (iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
       (a)
Grouping of contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost DEM 840,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  13
       (b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
      Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than DEM 670,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed DEM 2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than DEM 125,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed DEM 3,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of DEM 700,000 or more; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of DEM 350,000 or more; and (iii) the first two contracts for works, 
irrespective of the cost thereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first contract for 
goods awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of this Schedule, the 
following procedures shall apply:
      (A)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
      (B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
      (C)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f) 
and 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
Page  14
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981, (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than DEM 165,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than DEM 83,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to DEM 
165,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to DEM 83,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established by 
MOW, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank including, without 
limitation, the carrying out of procurement activities for all parts of the Project, 
and with staff that shall include, without limitation, a project coordinator, an 
accountant, a procurement specialist, and a project secretary and whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank.
2.
In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower shall cause MOF and 
MOW to enter into an Implementation Protocol regulating their respective 
administrative responsibilities with respect to Loan disbursement, maintenance of Loan 
accounts and debt service payments under the Loan Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall adopt and apply an Operational Manual satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the management of Project implementation providing, inter alia, for: (i) an 
implementation plan for the Project, including, without limitation, performance 
indicators for each Part of the Project; (ii) the organization, functions and 
responsibilities of the PCU; (iii) the format of reports and administrative steps to 
be followed in Project implementation and monitoring; and (iv) the responsibilities of 
each entity or agency involved in Project implementation and monitoring; and (v) the 
financial procedures to be followed in respect of maintenance of project accounts and 
the audit thereof.
4.
By September 30, 1997, the Borrower shall adopt Automation Plans for computer 
equipment agreed upon with the Bank, and shall ensure that such Automation Plans shall 
be followed during Project implementation.
5.
The Borrower shall and shall cause SSIF and Municipality of Kandava to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
       (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
Page  15
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
       (c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to DEM 800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
      (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  16
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
      (d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
       (b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
       (c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
       (d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
