RESTRICTED
Report No.  PTR-115a
This report is for official use onby by the Bank Group and specifically authorized orgarùzations
or persons. It rnay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. T11
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
IVORY COAST
June 2, 197Z
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Ebuivalenta
Currency Unit      -  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            -  CFA! 255.79
CFA! i             =  uS$0.o04
CFA! 1,000         - US$3.91
Fiscal Year:          January 1 to Decumber 31
weights and Meaeures: Metric
ybtrics British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   a  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
i hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                3  0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
= 0.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)            3  22 pounds (lbe)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =  2,204 pounds (lbs)
Abbreviations and AcronyMs
BNETD - Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpemènt
DPW   - Directorate General of Public leorks
FED   - European Development Fund
RAN   - Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SEMA - Societe d' Economie et de Mathematiques Appliquees
SETEC - Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques
vpd   - vehicles per day



IVORY COAST
TIFIRD HIGFWAY PPOJECT
TABLE OF CONTENT
Page No.
Si"E,AY   Mlr CO7CLtTSIONS ...........................           i
1.   INTPOPITCTTOY ........i..............................            1
2. THE TPAN1PORT SECTOR.                                              2
A. Fconoric qetting.                                             2
B..  The 'ransport System ....................2...               2
C.   Transport Policv and Coordination                           3
3. TPE HTGHWAY SFCTOP             ..                                  5
A. The llihwav Network.                                         5
B.   C1iaricteristi.cs and Growth of
Road Traffic.                                         5
C. Higlway Admini.stration.                                      6
D.   Ili5hway Financing and Planning.                            7
FI.  1Ttighwav  Engineering and Construction                     8
F.   Eauiînent Repair and Maintenance.                           9
G.   Fighvay Maintenance ......         ...................      9
4.   Th'E   PrOJECT   ......................................         10
A. Description   ..10
B.   Highway Maintenance and Bettermxent Programn               10
- General    ..1.......  n0
- Routine Maintenance   .              .il
- Betterrent Works   .                .il
- EFquipment and Vehicles   .            .12
- Technical Assistance   .              .12
C.   Strengthening of Paved Roads    .          .13
D.   Reconstruction of the Boubo Bridge                         13
F.   Abidi-an lrban  Development Study                          13
F.   Projcct  Fxecution.14
G. Project Cost Estimates   .                .16
P.   Fininciing ani Dlshursements        .      .18
5. FCONOeITC FnATIJATION .19
A. Ceneral.                                                     19
11.   Highway Maintenance and Betterment Program                20
- Routine Maintenance .20
- Bettermnent Works .21
C.   Strengthening of Paved Roads .21
D.   Reconstruction of the Boubo Bridge.                        22
6.   ACREEMFNTS RFACBED A»P RFCOMME,NDATION .22
(Conti.nued)
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Chaix (Engineer) and A. Weckerle
(Economist) and was edited by Mien J. Murphy.



TABLE OF CONTENT (Continued)
TABLES:
1.  Highway Network
2. Expenditures for Highways
3. Revenues from Selected Taxes on Fuel
4. Roads Tentatively Selected for Betterment
5. Equipment and Vehicle Requirements for Highway
Maintenance and Betterment Program
6. Technical Assistance Requirements
7. Financing of Capital Project Costs
8. Cost Estimates for the Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Program
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Vehicle Operating Costs Without Implementation
of Project
11.  Highway Maintenance and Betterment Program:
Economic Costs and Benefits
12. Economic Returns on Strengthening Works and
Bridge Construction
CHART:        Proposed Organization of the Directorate General
of Public Works
MAPS:         1.  Ivory Coast-Main Road Network
2. Ivory Coast-Abidjan Master Plan



IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGEWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Bank has been assisting the Ivory Coast ln its highway sector
since 1968 as executing agency for a Transport Survey financed by the United
Nations Development Programme and through two loans (542-IVC and 761-IVC)
totalling US$26.3 million for construction of about 350 km of paved roads,
and for preinvestment studies. The present project has evolved from these
previous onerations and represents the next appropriate step in the coun-
try's highway development. While previous projects have focused on extend-
ing the paved road network, the present project is directed toward preserva-
tion of the existing infrastructure and improvement of low-standard roads
serving rural areas.
ii.       The project consists of (a) the implementation of a four-year high-
way maintenance and betterment program (1973-1976); (b) the strengthening of
about 110 km of paved roads, including partial realignment and widening; (c)
the reconstruction of the bridge on the Boubo river; and (d) the study of
urban infrastructure development in Abidjan. The total capital cost of the
project is US$29.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$16.0 mil-
lion. The Bank loan of US$17.5 million vill cover about 60% of the total
cost.
iii.      The Government vill finance US$11.5 million of the local costs.  In
addition, it will meet the recurrent costs of routine and periodic maintenance
which are expected to total about US$44.8 million over the four-year project
period.
iv.       The Directorate General of Public Works under the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport will be responsible for the execution of the project. It
will be assisted by consultants and experts employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. All goode and construction works financed under the
loan will be procured through international competitive bidding, in accor-
dance with Bank/IDA Guidelines. The betterment works will be executed by
derartmental forces with three betterment units created under the project.
v.        The investments to be undertaken have been found to have a high
priority among those available in the highway sector and are expected to
stimulate agricultural and forestry production in the areas served. The
best estimates of the internal economic returns vary from 25% to more than 50%
for each of the elements of the highway maintenance and betterment program, and
from 16% to 29% for the strengthening and realignment works. The reconstruction
of the Boubo bridge is expected to yield an economic return of over 50%. The
overall economic rate of return for the project is estinated at about 50%.
vi.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of UtS$17.5 mil-
lion equivalent to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for a term of 22 years in-
cluding a five-year grace period.






IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGIWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The present project is the third Bank lending for highways in the
Ivory Coast.  It is an outgrowth of the findings of the French consultants,
Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques (SETEC), under a Transport Survey
which is being financed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
with the Bank as executing agency, and of engineering studies carried out by
SETFC under the first highway project. While previous projects have focused
on extending the paved road network, the proposed project is directed to the
preservation of existing paved roads and the improvement of earth and gravel
roads in rural areas. The project includes implementation of a four-year
highway maintenance and betterment program; strengthening of about 110 km of
paved roads, including partial realignment and widening; reconstruction of
the bridge on the Bouho river; and the study of urban infrastructure develop-
ment in Abidjan. The total capital cost of the project is US$29.0 million,
with a foreign exchange component of about US$16.0 million. The Bank loan of
US$17.5 million will cover about 60% of the total costs. US$16.0 million,
or about 90% of the loan, will finance foreign costs, and the remaining
US$1 .5 million will be applied toward local expenditures.
1.02      The UNDP-financed Transport Survey was undertaken by SETEC in two
phases. Phase 1, an overall survey of transport requirements, was completed
in September 1969 and made general recommendations for investments in the
various transport modes. Concerning highways, Phase I concluded that an
extensive program of primary road improvement should be undertaken and that
steps should be taken to improve road maintenance. Phase II consists of (a)
feasibilitv studies of roads selected on the basis of recommendations made
in Phase I; (b) detailed engineering of the Bouake-Katiola road; and (c) a
study of highway administration and maintenance. The consultants' draft
final report on Phase II was reviewed in November 1971 and the final report
is expected in mid-1972. A small road user taxation study, to be completed
hy the end of 1972, will conclude the Transport Survey.
1.03      The first higbway project, financed by Loan 542-IVC (US$5.8 million)
in 1968, consists of (a) construction of a paved road from Abengourou to
Agnibilekrou (60 km); and (b) feaslbility studies for 700 km of primary roads
to be followed by detailed engineering of 500 km if justified. Only 350 km
of these roads were selected for engineering, and in 1971, the project agree-
ment was amended to include detailed engineering of additional road sections
identified under the Transport Survey. Among these are the paved roads to be
strengthened under the present project. Construction under the first highway
project was satisfactorilv completed in July 1971, and the last of the
detailed engineering is expected to be completed by the end of 1972.
1.04      The second highway project, financed by Loan 761-IVC (US$20.5 mil-
lion) in 1971, consists of (a) construction of the Yabayo-Man road including
a branch to Guiglo (238 km), (b) construction of the Bouake-Katiola road (49
kw), and (c) detailed engineering of 300 km of additional roads.  Implementa-
tion of the project is on schedule; the construction contracts were awarded



- 2 -
in March/April 1972 and work is expected to start in nid-1972.  Much of the
detailed engineering carried out under the first two highway projects is ex-
pected to provide the basis for future Bank operations.
1.05      Other Bank Group lending in the transport sector of the Ivory Coast
has been confined to a 1954 railway loan (100-FR) of US$7.5 million to the
Office Central des Chemins de Fer de la France d'Outre-Mer. It was used for
the acquisition of diesel locomotives for the Dakar (Senegal)-Bamako (Mali)
and Abidjan-Ouagadougou (Upper Volta) railways. The loan has been fu]ly
repaid.
1.06      This report is based on the studies carried out by SETEC, on work
carried out by the Bank's Permanent Mission in Western Africa, and on the
findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C. Chaix (engineer),
R. Einthoven and A. Weckerle (economists) which visited the country in
Noveniber 1971. The section on the Abidjan urban development study was pre-
pared by Messrs. J. Elkouby, R. Venkateswaran and J. Yenny of the Bank's
Special Projects Department. The report was prepared bv Messrs. Chaix and
Weckerle and edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting (Map 1)
2.01      The Ivory Coast is roughly square in shape, with a total land area
of 322,000 km2. The flat to gently rolling terrain of the country presents
no major obstacles for transport development, though north-south construction
paralleling the flow of the rivers is easier and less costly than east-west
routes. Climate and vegetation vary markedly according to latitude, with
dense tropical forest in the southern region, open forests and grassland in
the central region and savannas in the north. Economic activity and popula-
tion are largely concentrated in the southeastern and central regions where
abundant rainfall supports agricultural activities.
2.02      During the last twenty years, the gross domestic product has grown
at an estimated rate of about 7% p.a. in real terms. This impressive growth,
which has led to a considerable increase in transport demand, has been closely
linked to the country's export earnings. Agriculture and forestry are the
main economic activities and together account for about 80% of total exports.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      The country's transport system is well developed.  Its infrastruc-
ture consists of more than 14,000 km of all-weather roads, about 640 km of
railroads, two deep-water seaports, a network of about 400 km of navigable
lagoons along the Atlantic coast, an international airport, and eight air-
fields served by regularly scheduled domestic flights. Road transport ls
the predominant mode within the country. In 1968, its share of the inter-
urban passenger traffic in terms of pass-km was about 75%, with the railway



-3-
accounting for most of the remainder. About 70% of the interurban freight
traffic in terms of ton-km was carried by road, 25% by rail, and 5% by in-
land waterways.
2.04      The railway, tbe Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN), is
jointly owned by the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta.  It has a single-trackl
line extending 627 km from Abidjan to the Upper Volta border and 518 km
from there to the capital of Upper Volta, Ouagadougou. The railway serves
mainly to transport the import and export traffic of Upper Volta and Mali,
with transit traffie accounting for about 70% of the total freight (ton-km)
carried. Between 1965 and 1970, both passenger traffic (pass-km) and freight
transport (ton-km) grew at an average rate of slightly more than 4% p.a. Up
to 1980, the RAN projects an average annual growth rate of about 5% for pas-
senger and 6% for freight traffic. The railway is economically viable. It
has heen fully dieselized, and locomotives and rolling stock are renewed on
a regular basis.  The track between Agboville and Dimbokro is being recon-
structed with financing from the European Development Fund (FED); rehabil-
itation of the traci' north of Dimbokro is being studied, also with FFD
financing.
2.05      Until 1971, almost all foreign trade moved through the deep-water
port at Abidjan. Total tonnages through the port between 1964-1969 grew at
about 9% p.a., and amounted to 5.2 million tons in 1969.  In 1970, the over-
ail volume remained at the 1969 level, largely because of a reduction in the
country's timber export. In order to ease pressure on its facilities, and
to stimulate the economic development of the southwestern region, the Gov-
ernment has bu"ltt a new seaport at San Pedro.  It started operation in mid-
1971 and mainlv handles the shipment of timber, which will account for about
three-quarters of the total 865,000 tons projected for 1972.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.06      The >«inistries of Planning, and of Public Works and Transport are
responsihle for the planning and coordination of public investments in the
transport sector. Transport regulation, which concerns mainly road transport
because of its predominance in the country, is, for the most part, handled
by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport.  The Ministry is advised by
the National Committee on Transport, a body composed of representatives of
various governmental departments and the transport industry. It also re-
ceives planning and administrative assistance from the regional technical
committees on road transport, in which the Governmient, the railroad, the
road transport industry and the shippers are represented.
2.07      Public investments in transport are guided by economic development
objectives and by regional considerations. In recognitlon of its economic
importance, a significant amount of public investment is channelled to this
sector. Its share of the total public investment budget between 1971 and
1975 will be about 20% according to the country's development plan covering
tbis period. Covernment awareness of the need to coordinate investments
between competing modes is demonstrated by the fact that ongoing studies
for Improvement of parallel rail and road facilities in the northern half



- 4 -
of the country are considering the impact of such improvement on the compet-
ing mode. The Government recognizes the importance of road transport as
shown by its allocation to roads of about 60% of the total funds planned
for the transport sector over 1971-1975.
2.08      The Government's regulation of road transport is aimed at the
creation of a transport industry which is economically viable, efficient
and responsive to changes in cost and demTand. On the whole it appears that
these objectives are being met at present. The Government regulates the
road transport industry in various ways. It reviews annual]v the suffi-
ciency of the industry's capacity to meet the requirements of the transport
devand and allocates licenses accordingly. This measure is intendecl to con-
trol over-capacity in the industry which in the past led to rulnotus comneti-
tion. At the moment the industry's vehicle fleet appears to be sufficiently
large for the transport demand; the fleet may, in fact, still be larger than
required, since in 1968-69, the average load factor of freight vehicles for
a return trip was as low as about 50%. In addition to regulating the market
entry, the Governnent has recently introduced fixed rates and ranges of
tariffs for transport of a number of industrial products and timber on vehi-
eles over 3.5 ton loading capacity and for distances over 100 km. Lower
rates, however, can be negotiated for long-term and high-volume shipping
contracts upon approval of the Government. Price fixing was established
at the specific recommendation of the UNDP Transport Survey; previously
charged rates reflected the dependency of the generally small transport
firms on big shippers and frequently did not cover long-run marginal trans-
port costs. In order to support and supplement the above measures, the
Government is presently in the process of setting up regional freight offices
which will be the obligatory market place for commercial shipmnents over dis-
tances of more than 100 km or of weight of more than 3.5 tons, with certain
goods excluded from the regulation. The freight offices, which were also
recommended in the UNDP study, are being administered bv the trucking industry
and the shippers.  They will allow control of the established freight tariffs
and are expected to result in more efficient use of the vehicle fleet. The
above regulations appear adequate for the time being; the Bank may, however,
want to use the occasion of future lending operations to review them with
the Government once their effect on the transport sector becomes apparent.
2.09      In the intermodal coordination of the railway and road transport
industry, Government policies are potentially restrictive in favor of the rail-
way, as freight transport by road between points along the railroad is legally
limited to vehicles with less than 10-ton loading capacity; vehicles with
elther origin or destination at some distance from the rail line do not fall
under this rule. The regulation is, however, not enforced. The determining
factors for allocation of traffic between the modes, therefore, are the ser-
vice characteristics and pricing policies of the two carriers.
2.10      An area of Governmental policy, where in the near future changes
might be advisable, is road user taxation. The Transport Survey has tenta-
tively concluded that heavy vehicles do not pay enough user taxes to offset
their costs for maintenance and improvement of the road networlk. If this
were confirmed, it would mean that road transport and shippers are beirn,



subsidized. It also might have implications for the division of the long-
haul transport market between rail and road. In order to clarify these and
related issues and to formulate a future policy on road user taxation, a
study is being carried out with funds remaining under the budget for the
UNDP Transport Survey. Tentative completion date is late 1972.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The classified road network (Table 1) consists of about 14,000 km
of all-weather roads, of which 1,350 km are paved, and about 20,000 km of
unimproved tracks. Logging companies have opened up an additional unidenti-
fied number of tracks in forestry areas. The average density of the network
is about 1 km per 10 km2 which is somewhat above the average for West African
countries. The network is most dense in the southeastern and central regions
where economic activity is greatest.
3.02      For the most part, the extensive highway network serves the country
adequately.  The rapid increase in economic activity has, however, placed a
heavy burden on the network, and road maintenance has not kept pace with
traffic growth. Some of the older paved roads are deteriorating under heavy
traffic volumes and maintenance of earth and gravel roads has fallen behind
requirements. The project will assist the Government in correcting these
deficiencies.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Between 1965 and 1970, the country's vehicle fleet grew at a high
rate of about 9% p.a. Passenger cars and truck-trailer combinations, which
both grew at about 11% p.a., accounted for most of the increase. Traffic
volumes have followed the same rapid growth pattern. Total freight traffic,
expressed in ton-km, increased by more than 8% p.a. between 1965 and 1970.
Timber traffic, which grew very rapidly over the period, accounted for most
of the increase. Since 1970, timber traffic has been declining slightly, and
total freight traffic over the next five to ten years is expected to grow at
only 2-3% p.a. Public interurban passenger traffic, in pass-km, has increased
at about 4% p.a. since 1965 and this growth rate is expected to be sustained
in the future. The use of private passenger cars has grown at 12% p.a., and
is expected to increase by at least 7% p.a. during the next decade.
3.04      Traffic is concentrated in the southern half of the country, particu-
larly around Abidjan, where economic activity is greatest. The main roads
radiating from the capital carry more than 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd), while
over the network as a whole, traffic volumes are low, averaging less than
100 vpd on most main roads.



- 6-
C.   Highway Administration
3.05      The Directorate General of Public Works (DPW) in the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport is responsible for construction and maintenance
of the highway network, with the exception of those roads in the immediate
vicinity of the Kossou dam and of the port of San Pedro, whose construction
is under the supervision of semi-autonomous authorities controlled by the
President's office. DPW headquarters at Abid.jan includes central divisions
for administration, accounting, planning and equipment, as well as a recently
created division for construction (para. 3.16). Responsibility for maintenance
activities rests with six Regional Divisions which report directly to the
Director General of Public Works. SETEC studied the highway organization,
and found that the existing arrangements with respect to the routine main-
tenance of roads would be reasonably adequate if supervision were strength-
ened, but reconmended that periodic maintenance and betterment be centralized
in order to increase efficiency and to improve the programming and execution
of works. Under the project, a Periodic Maintenance Division will be created
at headquarters which will be given this responsibility.
3.06      The DPW faces serious staffing shortages at the upper and middle
echelons. While the Director General and most regional directors are Ivorian,
the Government has been unable to fill all staff requirements with qualified
nationals. Consequently, the Directorate relies heavily on foreign experts,
who account for about 60% of the approximately 30 engineers and about 30% of
the 90 or so technicians within the DPW. Almost all of the expatriate en-
gineers are provided under a long-standing program for technical assistance
from France. Under the arrangement for this assistance, it is up to the
Government to decide where to employ the experts provided; the Government
has supplemented those assigned to the DPW by employing additional experts
on short-term contracts.  Even with their services, however, the Directorate,
particularly the central services remains understaffed.  Experts provided
under the project will help to alleviate this problem during project execu-
tion.
3.07      The Government recognizes that its long-term staff needs can only
be met through an extensive educational and training effort.  Since 1961,
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport has been operating a school in
Abidjan to train civil engineers and technicians under a 3 to 5 year program.
Because, however, of the shortage of candidates with adequate technical back-
ground, the school has graduated only about 4-5 engineers and 15 technicians
each year which has not been enough to meet the needs of the Ministry. In
order to increase enrollment, the Government decided to lower its criteria
for admission to the school, hoping to make up the educational. deficiencies
within the school program. Enrollment in 1971 quadrupled, and the Ministry
is having to enlarge its school facilities. Part of the required facilities,
particularly laboratories, will be available by the end of 1974 at the
National Technical Institute, which is an engineering college being established
with financing under Bank Loan 667-IVC. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that its civil engineering school would be extended in close
collaboration with the Institute in order to avoid any duplication in invest-
ment.



-7-
3.08      Despite the Government's training effort, the DPPW will have to
rely on the employment of foreign nationals dnring the next decade.  During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that, in addition to the experts pro-
vided under the project, it will continue to erploy foreign experts as neces-
sary to fill DPW positions for which qualified Ivorian staff are not available.
3.09      The DPW employs more thal&i 4,000 personnel, about 80% of whom are
skilled or unskilled laborers contracted on a short- or medium-term basis.
The DPW has been carrying out training programs for skilled personnel on a
regular basis for several years.  Maintenance foremen are trained at a train-
ing center in Bouake, and mechanics and equipment operators are trained by
the Equipment Division at the central workshop in Abidjan. Warehouse and
workshop supervisors have recentle beer. sent tc a vocational training cen-
ter in Lome (Togo).  For the most part r17ese programs are adequate to sat-
isfy the DPW's demand for skilled oersonnel.  The only constraint concerns
the Equipment Division's traininr  center which lacks a fuIl-time director
and is short of classroom space.  These deficiencies will be corrected under
the project.
D.  Highway Financing and Planning
3.10      Funds allocated for highways between 1966 and 1971 averaged CFAF
4.8 billion (ITS$18.9 million) per year consisting of CFAF 500 million (11S$2.0
million) for administration and overheads, CFAF 1.9 billion (US$7.3 million)
for maintenance and CFAF 2.4 billion (US$9.6 million) for new construction
(Table 2). About 75% of maintenance expenditures are met by allocations from
the road fund which is funded by taxes on fuel (para. 3.11) and lubricants;
allocations from the general budget account for the remainder. New con-
struction has been financed by the investment budget, by development loans
from the Bank (Loans 542-IVC and 761-IVC), France, Italy and the Federal
Repniblic of Germany, and by contractor financing.
3.11      Road users contribute to the Government' s revenues through annual
vehicle registration fees; through import duties and added value taxes on
vehicles, spare parts, fuel and lubricants; and through two particular taxes
on fuel, the "taxe specJale" and the "taxe specifique" (Table 3). Revenues
from these two taxes, the only ones that can be identified in the Govern-
ment's budget, amounted to about CFAF 8.3 billion (US$32.4 million) in 1970,
which was itself almost twice the total expenditure for highways, excluding
urban roads, in that year. A fixed portion of the "taxe speciale", amount-
ing to about one-fifth of the total revenues from these two taxes, is allo-
cated to the road fund; the remaining revenues are channelled to the general
budget, the investment budget, and public housing. While the total contri-
bution of road users to Government revenues is substantial, the relative pro-
portion of taxes levied on heavy vehicles may be too low. Part of the study
referred to in para. 2.10 will provide more accurate estimates of revenues
from road users and make recommendations on road user taxation policy.
3.12      Planning of investments in the highway sector is done by the
Ministry of Planning after review of the recommendations of the Ministry
of Public Worke and Transport. The Ministry of Public Works and Transport,



- 8 -
however, does not have an adequate planning unit and many past road invest-
ments were undertaken without economic analysie. The UNDP-financed Trans-
port Survey changed the situation significantly by demonstrating the ana-
lytical techniques of project planning and by identifying a large number
of economically attractive projects. The Ministry, of course, cannot rely
indefinitely on the findings of the Transport Survey since traffic flows
will naturally change with shifts and growth of economic activity. As the
first step to provide the Ministry with an adequate planning unit, the DPW's
Planning Division will be strengthened under the project (para. 4.08) and
sound techniques of data collection and evaluation will be introduced.
3.13      As there is an ample supply of economically attractive projects up
to the end of this decade, the availability of funds appears to be the deter-
mining factor in the size and composition of road investment programs. The
Government's planned expenditures for highway betterment, reconstruction and
expansion over the three years, 1972-1974, excluding urban roads, are in the
magnitude of US$100 million equivalent at current prices, a figure which is
more than twice the corresponding figure for the previous three years. Fi-
nancing from external sources is not likely to materialize as rapidly as ex-
pected, however, and local funds are scarce due to declining export revenues.
Several projects outlined in the program will therefore have to be postponed.
Most of the projects for which financing has been or is likely to be arranged
are expected to yield satisfactory economic returns; one project, however,
being carried out under contractor financing, is of low priority and was
undertaken in spite of the Bank's advice to postpone it and to use the funds
for more urgent projects.
E.   Highway Engineering and Construction
3.14      Engineering and supervision of major highway construction is
carried out by foreign consultants or by the semi-public firm BNETD (Bureau
National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpement). BNETD was created in
1964 to do engineering for government agencies. Its activities cover build-
ing design, urban planning and regional development and, to a lesser extent,
highway engineering.
3.15      Major construction works are carried out by contract.  A number
of large foreign contractors are active in the country and many have estab-
lished branches locally. There is only one contractor with Ivorian majority
ownership which is capable of undertaking major works. This firm, SONITRA,
is owned jointly by the Government and the Israeli contractor, Solel-Boneh,
but its management is entirely Israeli.
3.16      With a view to training Ivorian personnel in the management and
execution of contractual works, the Government recently established a semi-
autonomous New Works Division in the DPW with the intention that it would
carry out construction contracts for Government agencies or the private
sector. The Division will undertake minor works that are not attractive to
the existing contracting industry, which it made up almost exclusively of large
foreign firms.  The work of the Division will therefore fill an existing need
as well as permit the training of local staff and labor in contracting activ-
ities, a prerequisite for the development of a local contracting industry.



- 9-
F.   Equipment Repair and Maintenance
3.17      The Fquipment Division, a semi-autonomous agency under the control
of the DPW, is responsible for the maintenance, repair and renewal of the
Directorate's heavy enuipment. It operates a modern central workshop in
Abidjan and a pool of about 400 pieces of equipment which are rented to the
DPW regional divisions, to other Government agencies and to the private sec-
tor. Pental rates ensure coverage of repair costs, equipment renewal and
overheads. The Government is in the process of introducing a modern account-
ing procedure which will provide adequate costing analyses. On the whole,
the Equipment Division functions well and is able to maintain the equipment
fleet in good condition. However, the need to transport equipment to Abidjan
for repair results in its lengthly immobilization. This will be partially
corrected under the project by establishing light repair facilities in the
field to be run by the Eauipment Division.
3.18      The Equipment Division does not presently have responsibility for
,aintaining the DPW's vehicles (trucks, cars and vans).  This has been left
to the Regional Divisions which, having neither qualified personnel nor ade-
quate repair facilities, must sometimes relv on private garages that are
poorly equirped. As funds are not set aside in the budgetary allocations
for vebicle maintenance and rerewal, they are not always available when
needed for this purpose. The fleet has deteriorated and vebicles are not
always available for the transport of men and materials, inhibiting the work
of the divisions. Under the project, the responsibility for maintaining and
renewing the vehicle fleet will be turned over to the Equipment Division as
called for under the reorganization (para. 4.02).
G.   Uighway Maintenance
3.19      The DPW Regional Divisions are presently responsible for both
routine and periodic maintenance of the classified road network. Routine
maintenance consists of the clearing of shoulders, filling of potholes and
grading of "washboard" surfaces; periodic maintenance entails regravelling
of road surfaces every three to five years and, for paved roads, resealing
everv five to seven years. The DPW utilizes techniques for highway main-
tenance which are well-suited to local conditions, making use of either
lahor intensive methods or mechanization, whichever is appropriate to the
task. Resenling of paved roads is done by contract.
3.20      Maintenance funds, which are allocated to the Regional Divisions
on a per-kilometer basis, have increased by about 7% annually since 1966
(Table 2). Although substantial, this increase has not kept pace with price
escalation of 5-6% p.a. when coupled with the increased maintenance require-
ments due to the rapid traffic growth of 8% p.a. Therefore, despite the
best efforts of the Regional Divisions, as a result of the shortage of
funds, the condition of the network has gradually deteriorated over the
past five years and a backlog of deferred maintenance has developed. Field
activities have been reduced and the vehicle fleet has deteriorated, sub-
stantiallv affecting the efficiency of the maintenance crews. Furthermore,
the lack of adequate supervision of the crews and the poor programming of
works sometimes results in misuse of resources devoted to maintenance.



- 10 -
3.21      While the quality of routine maintenance has declined somewhat
as a result of these deficiencies, the DPW's perlodic maintenance pro,ram
has been even more affected by the lack of funds, proper programming and
supervision. Regravelling work is carried out by thirteen small units
scattered throughout the country, whose work is programmed at the regional
level depending upon the availability of funds. Because the units are so
small and spare parts are in short supply, work often stops corpletely when
one machine breaks down. When regravelling is undertaken, easily accessiblrh,
low quality materials are often used in order to reduce costs, with the re-
sult that the roads quickly revert to their former state. Drainape improve-
ment has been lilmited to emergency repairs. These deficiencies, as wel1 as
those in routine maintenance, will be corrected under the project.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proiect consists of the following:
(a) the implementation of a four-year highway maintenance and
betterment program (1973-1976), wbich is the first phase
of a seven-vear program;
(b)  the strengthening of about 110 km of paved roads, includins'
partial realignment and widening;
(c) the reconstruction of the bridge on the Boubo river; and
(d) the study of urban infrastructure developmient in Abidjan.
B.   Highwav Maintenance and Betterment Program
General
4.02      As a result of the highway maintenance study carried out under
Phase Il of the Transport Survey, SETEC has recommended a prograr to im-
prove routine and periodic maintenance operations and to upgrade earth and
gravel roads through betterment works. Implementation of the program re-
quires the purchase of additional equipment and vehicles, construction of
workshops, technical assistance, and increased recurrent expenditures for
road maintenance. The size of the labor force would remain at about the
existing level, but the number of supervisors for maintenance crews would
be slightly increased. SETFC's recommendations call for the concentration
of vehicle and equipment repairs under the Equipment Division, and the cen-
tralization of periodic maintenance and betterment works under a division
at DPW headquarters in Abidjan. SETEC also proposes that a seventh regional
division be established at San Pedro, that the boundaries of the existing
divisions be modified and that the number of subdivisions be increased (See
Chart), in order to conform to political districts adopted by the country in
1970.



- li -
4.03      The consultants have programmed implementation of their recommend-
ations over seven years, and the requirements in personnel, equipment, ma-
terials, repair facilities, and funds have been estimated accordinglv. The
program has been divided into two phases of which the first, covering a
four-vear period, will be carried out and funded under the project. This
first phase consists of a program to strengthen routine maintenance within
four regional divisions and a betterment progran which will make up a back-
log of periodic maintenance; betterment works and periodic maintenance will
be centralized under a new Periodic Maintenance Division, and the Equipment
Division will be put in charge of vehicle and eçuipment repairs. Under the
second phase, starting in 1977, the remaining three regional divisions will
be strengthened. During negotiations, the Covernment agreed that the TPW
will be reorganized as outlined above and that it will consult with the Bank
before completion of the project to define the second phase of the program.
Routine Maintenance
4.04      The maintenance program to be implemented under the project will
mainly henefit the four Regional Divisions in Abidjan, Bouake, Daloa, and
Korhogo, which comprise about 70% of the country's classified highway net-
work. During each year of the project period, routine maintenance operations
in one of these Divisions will be strengthened and raised to the standards
recommended by SETEC. New workshop facilities, additional equipment and
vehicles, and technical assistance are provided under the project to imple-
ment this program.
4.(5      Four regional. workshops will be established under the project for
maintenance and minor repairs of the heavy equipment which is presently sent
to Abidjan, and for repairs of the vehicles which are now serviced by small
and inefficient local repair shops. A workshop will be constructed in Bouake
in 1973, in Daloa in 1974, in Korhogo in 1975, and in Abengourou in 1976.
These new repair facilities will. be under the responsibility of the Equip-
ment Division. The central workshop at Abidjan will continue to carry out
heavy repairs of enuipment and will be utilized as the regional workshop of
the Abidjan Rerlonal Division. An additional classroom for the Equipirent
Division's traininp center in Abidjan will also be constructed under the
project to train personnel in the maintenance of new equipment. Three small
buildings to accommodate the offices of the new subdivisions created under the
project will also be constructed in Abidjan, Agboville and Korhogo.
Betterrment Wore1s
4.06      This program covers the betterment works on about 1,600 km of
roads selected from amiong the most important earth and gravel roads in the
country. The works wil3 consist of improving drainage through construction
of small culverts, execution of minor earthworks, and spreading a 15 cm gravel
surface. On]y in exceptional cases will work include reaiignment and widening
of the roadway. The works will be executed under the responsibility of a new
Periodic Maintenance Division by three betterment units to be create(l under
the project (para. 4.18). The equipment needs, culverts, fuel and spare parts
to operate the units will be provided under the project. After 1976, these



- 12 -
units will continue with road betterment including the carrying out of
periodic maintenance works. SETEC has tentatively selected a list of roads
to be included in the program on the basis of present traffic volumes and
road condition (Table 4), but the program may be modified somewhat during
project execution in the light of actual conditions at the time of implementa-
tion. To ensure that the roads included in the program are those of highest
priority, the Government and the Bank will review it annually. Furthermore,
to ensure that the necessary resources are allocated for betterment works
and are used efficiently, the Periodic Maintenance Division will be set up
as a semi-autonomous division, and wilJ  limit itself to the betterment pro-
gram except as otherwise agreed between the Government and the Bank. This
was confirmed during negotiations.
Equipment and Vehicles
4.07      The list of equipment and vehicles required for the highway main-
tenance and betterment program (Table 5) was prepared by SETEC after consid-
ering the most efficient method of executing the works. New purchases for
routine maintenance to be financed under the project consist mostly of graders
and trucks. The new equipment and vehicles will increase the existing fleet
by about 25%, the regular renewal of which will be financed by the Govern-
ment. Three-quarters of the equipment for the betterment units will be pro-
vided under the project, while the remainder will consist of DPW's salvage-
able equipment. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that equip-
ment and vehicles, as required to carry out the project (estimated in Table
S), will be made available to the DPW Regional Divisions and to the Periodic
Maintenance Division for the purpose of carrying out the maintenance and
betterment program.
Technical Assistance
4.08      A total of fourteen experts will be provided under the project to
strengthen existing staff (Table 6); three will be assigned to the Planning
Division of the DPW, eight to the Equipment Division and three to the Peri-
odic Maintenance Division. Two of the experts for the Planning Division will
advise the Director General on the implementation of the highway maintenance
and betterment program. They will prepare guidelines for maintenance activi-
ties, introduce adequate accounting procedures and supervise the collection
of traffic data to establish priorities for the works. They will also assist
in the preparation of highway investments, thus initiating the sound program-
ming of investments within the Ministry. The third expert, a surveyor, will
prepare the designs for the betterment works.
4.09      The eight experts provided for the Equipment Division will assist
in organizing the regional workshops and in training mechanical personnel.
Four master mechanics will program and supervise the operation of the four
workshops in Abidjan, Bouake, Daloa and Korhogo; the equipment inspector will
coordinate the work of the central and regional workshops, a mechanic with
expertise in diesel engine repair and an accounting/inventory expert will
spend a year in each of the regional workshops, after which they will be
replaced by Ivorian counterparts; a training expert will supervise the



- 13 -
Equipment Division's training center. As regards the Periodie Maintenance
Division, one expert will assist the Director in programming and supervising
works,- and two experts will be in charge of the operation of three betterment
units in the field. They will train Ivorian counterparts who will graduallv
take over the units. During negotiations, the Government agreed that counter-
parts will be assigned to the experts to be provided.
C.   Strengthening of Paved Roads (110 km)
4.10     lInder the project, three roads, totalling about 110 km, which are
part of the major trunk roads northwest from Abidjan will be strengthened
and partially realigned: Sikensi-Ndouci. (29.3 km), the first 40.3 km north
from Ndoucl toward Toumodi and the first 41.7 km west from Ndouci toward
Divo. The roads were constructed and paved twelve to eighteen years ago
to low engineering standards which were adequate for the light traffic
which prevailed at the time, but the pavement is deterlorating rapidly
under the present heavy traffic voltues. The standards. for strengthening
have been estallished by SETEC on the basis of detailed suXrveys. The con-
sultants have recommended extending, by about 10 years, the economic life
of the sections of these roads still in relatively good condition by pro-
viding a single bitumen overlay. On the worst sections, strengthening will
consist of reconstruction of the base and pavement surfacing providing
for a 20-year pavement life.  Some of these latter sections, with small
curves and inadequate passing distance, will also be realigned.
4.11      The Sikensi-Ndouci road will be realigned over nine short sections
totalling 11.3 Ikm, and the existing 7 m wide pavement will be heavily strength-
ened on the remaining 18 km. On the road from Ndouci toward Toumodi, four
sections totalling 5 km will be realigned; a third lane for slow moving
vehicles will be added on a steep hill one km long; 8 km wîll be treated
witl a single overlay and the pavement on about 24 km will be reconstructed.
The existing 6i m wide pavement, whose edges have been badly damaged by the
heavy vehicles, will be widened to 7 m.  Half of the 41.7 km from Ndouci
toward Divo will receive a sing]e overlay treatment; one short section
about 2 km long will be realigned; on the remaining 20 km the pavement
will be reconstructed.  The present pavement width of 6 m will be retained
on this road since the edges are not heavily damaged and the margina] cost
of wideninF would not be justified.
P.  Peconstruction of the Bouko Eridge
4.12      The Boubo bridge is located about 6 km west of Divo, on the paved
trun17 road to Lal,ota. The present bridge is a one-lane concrete structure
huilt in 1955. It has been closed to truck traffic of over 6.5 ton loading
capacity since 1970 due to somc structural and foundation failure and cannot
be reraircd.  Ulnder the project, a 90 m long, two-lane bridge and approaches
wil] bc constructed near the existing one.
E.   Ahidjan Urban Pevelopment Study
4.13      Abidjan, tie canital of the Ivory Coast, is its largest city and
main commercial center.  In 1971, the population of the city was estimated
at about 600,000 inhabitants, having grown at over 10% p.a. during the



- 14 -
preceding decade.  In order to direct the future development of this rapidly
growing city, tie Government established, in 1969, a Master Plan for metro-
politan Abidjan on the basis of studies carried out by the French consultants
SEMA (Societe d'Economie et de Mathematiques Appliquees) bectmeen 1962-1967.
The Master Plan defines specific residential, industrial, commercial and re-
creational areas to accommodate expected growth through 1980.
4.14      An area given high priority for development under the Plan is the
Banco Zone, directly west of Abidjan proper (Map 2). Its location on the
lagoon, close to both the city center and the port, offers advanta,-es over
other areas in terms of water supply, drainage, ventilation and land exno-
sure. The Government has recently initiated development in the Banco Zone,
and is presently constructing the urban infrastructure necessary to serve
some 670 ha of residential land. As part of the Banco development program,
public housing agencies have begun construction of 2,300 housing units to be
completed in early 1973, to be followed immediately thereafter by another
2,300 units. There is an urgent requirement to improve the connection be-
tween the Banco and the rest of the city. The study provided for in the
project includes feasibility studies and detailed engineering of an urban
arterial road system to provide the required link. It also includes the
study of the necessary infrastructure for further development of low-income
residential areas within the Banco Zone, primarily of local streets, water,
sanitation and power distribution. The study is expected to lead to Bank
Group financing of an urban highway project as part of or followed by an
urban development project.
F.   Project Execution
4.15      The DPW will be responsible for the execution of the project and
will be assisted by the fourteen experts to be provided under the project.
For the highway maintenance and betterment program, the Government wishes
to employ independent experts rather than experts from consulting firms.
This is acceptable for the organization expert, the surveyor, the four
master mechanics, and the two maintenance experts, who will all be providing
technical assistance to operational staff, provided that they are selected
in agreement witli the Bank and in good time to assure tinely execution of
the program. To coordinate the reorganization of the DPW, the other six
experts will be provided by one consulting firm having experience in main-
tenance organization. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
(a) consultants and other experts acceptable to the Bank will be emploved
for the maintenance and betterment program and recruited according to a
procedure agreed upon by the Bank, and (b) if it is unable to recruit
independently the eight experts mentioned ahove, the consulting firm pro-
viding the other experts for the highway maintenance and betterment program
will be asked to supply them. For supervision of the strengthening works
and bridge construction, the Government proposes to retain SETEC who carrie(1
out the detailed engineering of these works. This is satisfactory since its
appointment will allow a desirable continuity. Signature of the consultants'
contracts for the maintenance and betterment program. and for construction
supervision is a condition for loan effectiveness.



- 15 -
4.16      The regional workshops, the offices and the classroom will be construct-
ed by contractors under unit price contracts awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. Due to the timing of the workshop corstruction,
separate bids will be called for each of the buildings. Bidding for these
small contracts will be advertised only in Western Africa but will not be lim-
ited to regional contractors. Fuel and spare parts will be procured on the
basis of quotations from local suppliers. The culverts, the workshop equip-
ment, and the vehicles and maintenance equipment financed under the project
will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank procedures, through separate contracts for each type and each
group of similar tvpes of equipment. About 60% of the equipment and vehi-
c]es is exlectpd to be delivered in 1l73, 25% in 1974, and the remainder in
1975 and 1976. Fquipment suppliers will be required to provide an adequate
servicing organization as well as to guarantee time of delivery and prices
of spare parts. The bidding documents for the buildings and for the vehi-
cles and ecuipment will be prepared in mid-1972 by SETFC under its supervi-
sion contract. The Periodic Maintenance Division will prepare the bidding
documents for the culverts which will be either concrete culverts produced
locally or imported steel culverts. The above arrangements were confirmed
with the Government during negotiations.
4.17      Although a preferential treaty exists between the European Economic
Community and the Ivory Coast, the Government informed the Bank during nego-
tiations that it wishes to evaluate the bids for procurement of imported
equipment, vehicles and culverts on the basis of CIF prices. Two local as-
sermnllv plants for cars and light trucks are also expected to compete for
vehicle orders to be financed under the project, totalling about USS1.5 mil-
lion enuivalent. The value added locally by the assembly plants, which
arises from the production of seats and small accessories, and from the as-
sembling of imnorted components, is probably no more than 20%, although it
has not been possible to check this value.  During negotiations, the Bank
agreed that the normal 15% preference margin would be applied to locally
produced goods only if the Covernment can give satisfactory evidence prior
to calling for bids that the value added by the local plants is greater than
20%.
4.18      The betterment works will be carried out by the Periodic Maintenance
Division of the DPW which will prepare necessary engineering of the works prior
to execution. This method of execution has been selected as the most suitable
and efficient because it offers the required flexibility for the small works
involved, and because it will permit training of local staff and personnel.
Two of the betterment units will start operation in 1973, and the third one in
1974. Each unit is expected to complete about 145 km of roads per year at an
average cost of about US$5,600/km. A work schedule will be established on a
monthly basis and performance checked accordingly. The Division will receive
a specific allocation for betterment works in the budget; it will carry out
adequate accounting in the field to control the cost and the efficiency of
the units. The Government does not presently allow paid overtime of skilled
DPW personnel. As this would place an unreasonable constraint on betterment
operations, the Government agreed during negotiations that a reasonable



- 16 -
amount of paid overtime will be allowed in the execution of betterm,ent works
in order to allow the necessary flexibility of operations; it also confirmed
its agreement to the above measures concerning the scheduling and accourting
of the works.
4.19      Implementation of the highway maintenance and betterment program
will not increase employment; while some additional foremen, chief mechanics
and technicians will be trained or recruited, the total DPW lahor force wi]l
remain at about the same level.  Under the,project, laborers will be employed
more efficiently and will improve their qualification through training. Meth-
ods for executing the maintenance and betterment program were reviewed with
the Government, and the use of labor and equipment was found to be reason-
ably balanced.
4.20      The strengthening works and bridge construction will be carried
out by prequalified contractors under unit price contracts awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Separate contracts will be
awarded for the strengthening works and for the bridge construction which
is expected to minimize their cost. The works are expected to start in
mid-1973 and to be completed within two years. Adequate right-of-way will
be available to permit the work to start on schedule. During negotiations,
the above arrangements were confirmed with the Government.
4.21      The method for executing the strengthening works and bridge
construction will be decided by the contractors; it is expected that
capital intensive methods will be retained since this type of work can-
not be carried out to satisfactory standards without heavy equipment.
The works are expected to provide employment for about 400 skilled and
unskilled laborers during the construction period.
4.22      In agreement with the Bank, the Government has selected the French
consultants BCEOM from among five firms invited to submit proposals, to
carry out the Abidjan Urban Development Study. The study is expected to
start by the end of 1972 and to be completed vithin two yearo.



- 17 -
C.   Project Cont Esti.mates
4.23        The estimated capital cost of the project is summarized below,
and given in more detail in Tables 7 and 8.
- ----CFAF million -----    ---    US$'000-------       %
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
a) Routine Maintenance-
Buildings                   30.0      78.0    108.0       117     305     422      72%
Workshop equipment           8.0      4o.o      48.o      31      156     187      83%
Equipment and vehicles    152.5    447.0    599.5        596   1,748   2,344       75%
Technical assistance        7b.1     223.9    298.01/   290       876   1 1661/   75%
264.6 7Mr79  1 Ô T.    1,03    Y, >
b) Betterment Works
Equipment and vehicles    119.0      453.0    572.0      466   1,771   2,237       79%
Culverts                    27.5     132.0    159.5       108     516     624      83%
Fuel and spare Darts       312.7     h5o.1    762.8   1,223   1,760   2,983        59%
Local salaries           1,088.2       0    1,088.2   4,254         0   4,254       0
Technical assistance        43.2     130.0    173.21/   169       508     6771/   75%
1,590.6   1,165.1  2,755.7   6,220 1          î1775
c) Paved Road Strengthening 782.0   1,172.0  1,954.02/ 3,057   4,583   7,640/   60%
d) Bridge Construction         71.0     107.0    178.02/   278       418     696Y/   60%
e) Construction Supervision  42.5       127.5    170O.1/   166       499      6651/   75%
f) Abidjan Urban
Developieient Study         73.0     137.0    210.0_2/   285      536     8211/   65%
Total (a) through (f)  2,823.7   3,497.5  6,321.2  11,040  13,676  24,716
g) Contingencies
Physical:  10%             282.4     349.7    632.1   1,104   1,367   2,471
Price escalation:
-about 7% for (a) and (b)  117.3     154.7    272.0       459     605   1,064
-about 6% for (c), (d),
(e) and (r)               60.0       94.0    154.o      235      367     602
4 9.7     P'87 1 î,U"7T        M    2,339   4,137
Grand Total             3,283.I    1,o95.9  7,379.3  12,838  16,015  28,853
Rounded Total                                         13,000  16,000  29,000       55%
Of which Bank:                                     1,500  16,Q00   17,500
1/  of which the Bank will finance 90%.
O/ Of which the Bank will finance 67%.



- 18 -
4.24      The cost estimates for equipmnent, buildings and culverts arc
based on consultant estimates; they represent expected 1973 prices and are
reasonable. Cost estimates for the strengthening works and bridge con-
struction are based on detailed engineering. They have been compared with
actual bids received for recent Bank-financed projects in the Ivory Coast
and are adequate. Cost estimates for the technical assistance for the
highwav maintenance and betterment program and for construction supervision
are based on recent Bank-financed contracts in the Ivory Coast. The costs
have been estimated on the assumption that all of the experts will be
provided by a consulting firm, although the Government may be able to
recruit some of them at lower prices. The cost of the urban study is based
on a contract negotiated with BCEOM. Taxes and duties represent about 18%
of the project cost and account for about 40% of the local component.
The estimated capital cost of the project includes a contingency allowance
of about 10% for increases in physical quantities; the price escalation
allowance of about 6% is expected to cover increases in unit prices during
project inDlementatîon of about 7% p.a. on equipment, 6% p.a. .pn other goods
and consulting services, and 3Z p.a. on local salaries.
4.25      The foreign exchange components of the various project items
(see para. 4.23) are based on the consultants' detailed cost analyses and
are consistent with recent experience in the Ivory Coast. The foreign
component of the pavement strengthening and bridge construction, estimated
at 60%, is about 5% higher than for works under the second highwav project
because of the larger proportion of imported goods, mainly asphait. The
foreign cost of the urban study is somewhat lower than the cost of other
consultant services under the project since BCEOM plans to utilize the
services of BNETn for much of the field work.
H.   Financing and Disbursements
4.26      The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$29.0
million, of which US$16.0 million are foreign costs and US$13.0 million are
local expenditutes. The Bank will finance all of the foreign capital costs
of the project as well as US$1.5 million equivalent of the local costs
(see Table 7).  The Bsnk loan, amounting to IJS$17.5 million will thus cover
about 60% of the total capital cost, or 73% of the cost net cf taxes. The
Government will finance the remaining local costs, amounting to about
US$11.5 million. In addition, the Government will meet the recurrent costs
of routine and periodie maintenance, which are expected to total about
US$44.8 million over the period of the project (see Table 8).  During
negotiations, the Government agreed thât its budget allocation to the DPW
over the project period will be sufflcient to cover the costs outlined
above and that it will detail these expenses in the Government's annual
budget and in the DPW accounts.



- 19 -
4.28      Funds from the loan acccunt will be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a)  the CIF cost (Abidjan) of imported maintenance equipment and
vehicles, of workshop equipment and of culverts;
(b) 60% of expenditures for locally assembled vehicles, which
represents the estimated foreign component;
(c) 45% of expenditures for locally produced concrete culverts,
which represents the estimated foreign component;
(d) 72% of expenditures for the construction of buildings, which
represents the estimated foreign component;
(e)  677. of expenditures for strengthening and construction, which
represents 90% of the total cost net of taxes;
(f) 90% of the cost of consultants or other foreign experts for
technical assistance, construction supervision, and the urban
studv; and
(g)  the enuivalent of  JS$1,100/kTm of roads improved under the
hetterment program to the satisfaction of the Bank, which
represents the estimated foreign exchange costs of fuel
and spare parts required to carry out the works.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 9.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The purpose of the proposed project is to ensure that economwic
growth in the Ivorv Coast is supported by reliable and efficient transport
linl;s, not only by major paved roads which have been the foeus of past
Bank projects, but also by lower standard roads serving more renote rural
arcas. In determining the scope of works, both the country's implemnenta-
tion capacity and constraints on local cost financing have been considered.
The investments to he undertaken have been found to have a high priority
amonp the numerous hi.gh-yield investments available in the highway sector,
with the overall return for the project being about 50%. The timing is
considered appropriate since postponement of the investments by a number
of years does not increase their net present worth.



20 -
5.02       The immediate benefrts to be derivedc from the project are savings
in transport costs, 1/ and these are the main beneflits which hnve been uti-
lized in its economic evaluation.  In the longer run, these savings are ex-
pected to stimnulate both agriculture and forestry, whose products  nakle un
the buflk of freight carried on the project roads.
B.   Highwav Maintenance and Bett_erment Proram
Routine Maintenance
5.03       About 25,000 km of roads in four Regional Divisions are expected
to be affected hy the improvement of routine maintenance under the project.
Of these, only the 1,200 Ion of paved roads and 8,000 7-  of ali-weather
earth and gravel roads have been considered in the econonic analysis since
the costs and benefits of imnproved mnaintenance of the remaining earth tracks
are insignicanr.  The weiglhted average of the traffic in 1973 is estimated
at aDout 1,000 ivpd on the paved roads and about 50 vpd on the other all-
weatber roads.
5.04       Evaluatlon of iMproved maittenance, Involving incremnental expend-
itures foe  'tevrkshops and other buildingse equipment, technical assistance and
other resources, has been based on the assumition tlhat wîthout tlhe project, the
size and composition (irn real terms) of the DPW's 197' budget for routine main-
tenance would De continued between 1973 and 1i97,  The investment's main bene-
fits, zcns!stlng of savings in veiîcle operating costs, are expected to materia]-
lze during the saine period.  The unit savings, Tneasured in ternis of CFAF/veh-km
cannot D2 estimated with great accuracy due to limited informationl.  It can be
safely assz2aied, however, that they wiil be at least in the order of 5% and this
is the figure conservatively used ln the economirc analysis.  Corresponding ben-
efits are expested to grow at a year:y rate of 4% due to increases in traffic.
Additisna:L:Lnvestment returnr. are expected aftet 1977 from tne worksbons and
the vehThcLs and equipment financed under the project.  Construction of the
regionai. eorkshops wî-,il reducce the time that vehicles and equipment emploved
in rout-ne maintenance are tîiae up for repairs; this will allow an estimated
8% reduction in value terns of the fleet, while keep1ng the level of road
maintenance constant. The availability of the additional. eiuirment after
1977 W'l 17^efe- ew pur-hases bv a numtber of years.
5.05       Bazed on the above data and ass&tnpt-.ins. the oenefit-cost ratio,
at a discoi_nt rate cf 12%, is about 2.90:1, and the in_ernal economic rate
of returv. is over 50%). (Table 11).  Even if the unit savings in vehicle op-
eratngv costs are assumed to be as low as 2%, thie vield renlains very hiîh
at about 25,.î îndicating- that the proposed innrovernenz of routine mainte-
nance is econcimically well justified.
1/   Vehicle cperating costs without the project are detailed in Table 10.



- 21 -
Bettermnent Wort's
5.06      Rond betterrment worhs will be carried out on 1,600 km of the
econonically most imDortant earth and gravel roads serving the countrv.
The roads tentatively selected for this program (Table 4) are those on
whlch traffic is exrected to reach 65-200 vpd by 1973, with about 35% con-
sisting of trucks and trucl-trailers of 6.5 and more tons loading caracity;
159  medium-sized trucks and buses; and thle rest, vehicles seating un to
Pirkt passengors. The program will be made possible through the provision
of techi'rcal assistance, equipment, culverts, other materials and labor.
The investrent analvsis was made under an assumnition similar to that uti-
lized for routtine maintenance; that is, that without the project, the size
and composition (in real terms) of the DPW's 1971 budget'for regravelling
ancl hettrrment works would be continued over the 1973-1976 period.
5.07      It has been estimated that the works to be undertaken will produce
unit savings in vehicle operatinç- costs of ahout 20% for 3 to 5 years depend-
inz on traffic volures.  Benefits on the improved roads have been asstuned to
grow at 47 annua]lv duie to exnected traffie growth. Based on these estimates,
the benefit-cost ratio of the overall scheme, at a discount rate of 12%., is
abotit 1.65:1 and the internal economic rate of return is 50% (Table 11). The
maximuni project risks are considered to be a cost overrun of 20% and a sitn-
u1tancoiis decrease in benefits by the sarne percentage. Under even these
circurstances, however, the return remains acceptable at about 20%. In
order to test the economic viability of the individual roads included in
the prorranr, a similar analvsis has been carried out for the least trafficked
roads (65 vpd) tal,en alone. Based on the ahove assumptions, the benefit-cost
ratio for thr proposed investment on these roads is about 1.35:1 and the in-
terra) ecororic rate of return is about 25%. An analysis of the project
risks has indicated that there is a probability of about 95% that the rate
of retuirn for tl'e low trafficked roads would be 12% or more.  The road bct-
term"ent program is consldered to be a sourd investment, offering high return
for the countrv.
C.   Strer,n-etning of Paved Roads
5.(Io     The present deterioration of sections of the main trunk roacls
from   hl dinn to Boia!ec and Caproa ard their expected u]timate failure if
this deterioration is allowed to continue makes imperative one of two
Possible courses of action:  (a) progressively increasing annual riain-
tenancr, or (l) heav-v investîrents on the roads to strengthen the existinp
pavement.  The economic evaluation of the strengthening vas therefore set
ur as a cost corParison between tlhese two alternatives.  Eack of the three
sepnratelv ldentified road sections was analyzed individtuaily on the basis
of its traffic volure and degree of roadway deterioration.  In addition,
senarate evaluiations were made of the marginal investments into the major
renlipnment worl's on the Silcensi-Ndouci section and the road wideninF on
the Ndoîî-ti-Totirodi section.



- 22 -
5.09       The projected 1974 traffic on the three road sections ranges
fromi 1,400 to 2.900 vpd.  l'he main quantifiable beneffts of thie strenç'then-
ing and realignrient works comne froin reductlons in unit vnhicle. operat4ns,
costs of up to 12% over the econoniic liîfe of the investrnents.  T!he gro.7th.
of henefits due to increased traffic îs assuined to he 4% p.a. In addition
to savings in unit vehîcle oierating costs, the wîcle.ing of the Ndouci-Tounmodi
road is justified en the basis of the expected reduction of highwav accidents.
5.10       The învestments into the three road sectîons have benefit-cost
ratios, at a 12% dîscount rate, of between 1.35:1 anid 2.45:1, and rates
of return between 16% and 29% (Table 12).  Actual costs and benefits of
the schemne are expected to remain in the ± 15% range around their best
estimates.  This assures rates of return of at least 12%P on all three
road sections.
n.    ecinetrtction_ of the Dcubc Bridge
5.11       Because of structural fai,lure of the existing brid;e on the Boubeo
river, trucks of more than 6.D ton loading  'apaeity have to detour over
a 42 kr earth and gravel road as opposed to 28 kmi of paved road on the mrai.n
route between Divo and Gagneoa.  By 1974, approxiLately 100 vrd are expecte(l
to be affected by this diversion.  Construction of a new bridge to replace
the existing one wiil therefcre not only rtAduce unit vehicle onerating costs
but will also shorten the di-stance for heavy trucks h'i one-third.  The
proposed irivestn.ent is îustlf,ed with a beneFit-cost ratio of 6.60:1 at a
discount rate of 12%, and wîth a rate of return of otver 50%.  Actual. bene-
fits and costs are expected to fall. into the ± 15% range around their best
estimates, which impl4es a return of at least 45%.
6. AGIREEMICENC1TS LEACE1D ANI) REC0J5O2'LNATIT[CN
6.01       'he following are the major project matters on which agreement
was reached during negotiatia ns-
(a)  exDerts will be sfloyed as necessary ta fïl  DPW positions
ends tu the extent that qualified Ivorian staff are not
ava2.lable, foreign natîonals will be engaged (para. 3.08);
(b)  the DPW will be reorganized in agreew.ent with the Bank, and
prior to completior- of the project, the Government w1ll con-
sult with the Bank; to def4ne the second phase of the highway
maintenance and betterment program (para. 4.(03);
(c)  throughou. the project period, the lPeriodîc Maintenance
Division cf the DPTe will limit itseif te the works in-
cluded in the road betterment program except as otherwese
agreed between the GCvernment and the Bank (para. 4.06);



- 23 -
(d) the roads to be included in the betterment program will be
reviewed annually with the Bank (para. 4.06), and such works
will be scheduled monthly and adequate accounting will be
carried out (para. 4.18);
(e)  t)c yPP? .7i11 rake ail equipment and vwhicles required to
carry out the highwav maintenance and hetterment program
anvailab]e to its d'ivlsions exclusivelv for that purpose
(ppra. 4.C7);
(f)  counterprrts will be assignei to tlhe experts assistinî tlhn
Tlr,! in the execution of the highway maintenance and better-
Trent prograr (para. 4.nl9);
(g)  consu1 tants or other experts acceptable to the Ranl w{ll be
er2lnrveOI an(l recruitedi according to a procedure agroabinbl  to
tl'r Pan, and if the C-overnment is unahle to recruit expertr
inderendentlv, it wi.ll utIlize a consultant firn  (para. 4.15);
(h) the Bank's normal 15% preference margin will be applied to
locally produced goods only if the Government can give
satisfactory evidence prior to calling for bids that the
value added by the local plants is greater than 20%
(para. 4.17);
(i)  a reasonable amount of paid overtime will be allowed in the
execution of betterment works (para. 4.18); and
(j) the budget allocation to the DPW over the period of the proj-
ect will be sufficient to cover the project costs not covered
by the loan as well as the recurrent coste of routine and
periodic maintenance; these expenses will be detailed in the
Goveriument annual budget and in the DPW accounts (para. 4.26).
6.02      Signature of the contracts with the consultants for the highway
maintenance and betterment program and for construction supervision is a
condition for effectiveness of the loan (para. 4.15).
6.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$17.5
million equivalent to the Ivory Coast.  The loan will be made for a 22-year
term, including a five-year grace period, which represents the estimated
economic life of the strengthening works.
.lune 2, 1972






Table 1
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highwe Network
(km)
1948     1957     1961     1965     1969      1971
Paved roads               50      350       684      899    1,293    1,353
All-weather earth
and gravel roadsi/   3,600    8,400   10,000   13,070   13,000   13,000
Unimproved tracksl/    7,200    8,000   14,600   18,500   20,000   20,000
Total:     10,850   16,750   25,284   32,469   34,293   34,353
1/ Estimated
Source: SETEC - Phase I of the Transport Survey, September 1969.
Directorate General of Public Works, November 1971
June 2, 1972



Table 2
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIOMAI PROJECT
!Expenditures for Highwas
(CFAF million)                            Average
Annual
Growth
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1966-1971
Administration
and overheads            402     464     467      520     555      664      10.6%
Maintenance
financed from
- road fund           1.,100   1,198   1,314   1,467   1,790   1,550         7.1%
- general budget         433     460     515      533     276      585       6.2%
1,533   1,658   1,829   2,000   2,o66   2,135         6.9%
Construction            1.545   1,959   2,736   2,944   1,838   3,65hYY3/  18.8%
Total                  3,,480   4,081   5,032   5,464   4,459   6,453       13.1%
1/ Excluding urban roade.
T/ Including road construction associated with Kossou Dam and
San Pedro port projects.
3/ Budgetary allocation only; expenditures may be spread over several years.
Source: SETEC Highway Maintenance Study - December 1971
Directorate General of Public Works - November 1971.
June 2, 1972



Table 3
IVORI COAST
THIRD HIGIWAY PROJECT
Revenuea from Selected Taxes on Fuel
(CFAF million)
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    19711/
F"Taxe Speciale"
Amount channele4
to road fund 2             1,198   1,314   1,441   1,517   1,584   1,550
Amount channeled   3/
to general budget-           820      890   1,910   2,012   2,108   2,100
Subtotal                2,018   2,204   3,351   3,529   3,692   3,650
"Taxe  Specifique"W
Amount channeled
to investment budget       1,619   1,719   1,898   2,373   3,981 lh,loo
Amount channeled
to public housing              O        O       0      697     602      600
Subtotal                1,619   1,719   1,898   3,070   4,583   4,700
Total                   3,637   3,923   5,249   6,599   8,275   8,350
1/ Estimated on basis of ten months.
7/ CFAF 5/liter of gasoline and CFAF 4.5/liter of diesel oil.
3/ Increased in 1968 from CFAF 3.75/liter of gasoline and CFAF 2.5/liter
of diesel oil to CFAF 7/liter of gasoline and CFAF 5.5 liter of diesel oil
4/ Fluctuated over the period; since September 1971 has been OFAF 15/liter
of gasoline and CFAF 2/liter of diesel oil.
Source: Directorate of Transport
Customs
Mission estimates - November 1971
June 2. 1972



Table 4
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Tentatively Selected for Betterment
Eatimated
1973
Road Section                   Lnth       Traffic                           First Phase
-l- (vpd)         1973        1974    !    975         1976
A.  First Betterment Unit
Akoupe-Agboville                 61          190
Bouake-Botro                     41          200               >-4
Bouake-Sakasou                   35          100
Bouake-M'Bahiakro                87          165
Bocanda-Dimnbokro                62           95
Dimbokro-Bongouanou               4          150
Gagna-Sassandra                 129           65
Gagnoa-Issia                     20          65
Sassandra-Lakota                141           65
30-
B.   Second Betterment Unit
Toumodi-Gagnoa                  125         190
Divo-Oume                        74          150
Gagnoa-Bouafle                  108          140
Man-Biankouma-Touba              54           65
Man-Danane                       74          100
Danane-Toulepleu                 93          65
Toulepleu-Guiglo                 52           65
C.  Third Betterment Unit
Badikaha-Ferkes3edougou          48          125
Ferke'Jsedougou-Ouangolodougou   44         100                            -
Ouangolodougou-Mali              91           75
Ouangolodougou-Upper Volta       30           65
Ferkedsedougou-Korbogo           55         180
Korhogo-Boundiali                22           90
Abobo-Alepe                      62           65
Youbouli-Grand Lahou             62          115                                                   _ _
Agnibilekrou- Tanda              21          125
Total               1,595
Source: SETEC Highway Maintenance Study- December 1971
Mission estimates - March 1972
June 2, 1972



Table 5
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHiAY PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicle Requirements for Highway Maintenance and Betterment Program
A. Requirements for Routine Maintenance
on-To be Purchased under Projeet /------                    --------CFAF million-
Hand                                                         Unit          Total Cost
1973      1973    1974      1975      1976      Total        Price   Recurrent    Capital
Bulldozer (175 HP)              13         -          -  (1)  -   ( 8)  - (9)   -           15.60     140.40            -
Motorgrader (125 HP)            95        22   ( 7)  -  (10)  -   ( 4)  - (21)+ 22           8,50     178.50       187.00
Motorgrader (75 HP)             70         -   (18)  -  (10)  -   ( 6)  -  (34)   -          3.25     110.50            -
Loader(100 HP)                  10         -   ( 2)  -  ( 1)  -   (6)  - ( 9)   -            5.40       48.60
Compactor (15 t)                 4         -          -        -          -          -
Pneumatic tired roller (10 t)  1B          -          -        -          -          -
Triming equlpment               10         -          -        -          -          -
Tractor                         36         -          -        -          -          -
Patching unit                    0         2         2         2          2         8        2.80                   22.40
Vibration compactor             10                    -        -          -         -
Truck (3-5 t)                   86        65   (20)+49  (20)+34   (20)+27  (60)+175          2.21     132.60       386.75
Dump truck (6 m3)               28         -
Miscellaneous (tools)                                                                                    6.0        3.35
616.6o      599-50
B. Requirements for Bettermerlt Works
On      ------To be Parchased under Project --------        --------CFAF million--------
Hand                                                         Unit             Total
1973      1973    1974      1975      1976      Total        Price        Capital Cost
Motorscraper (10 m3)             O         1        -        -         -           1        15.00                   1.0
Bulldozer (175 HP)              12                  -        -                     -
Motorgrader (125 HP)             O         6       3         1         _          10         c.50                      .0?
Loader (100 HP)                 10         - ,
Compactor (15 t)                 6         -
Pneumatic tired
roller (10 t)                  3         -
Tractor                          3         -       -
Fuel tank trailer (6 m3)         0         6       3         1        1           il         1.80
Water tank trailer (6 mIi)       o         6        3        1         1          il         1.80                   ls.oG
Water pump                        0        6        3        1         -           10        0.40                     4.oo
Trailer (12-man)                 o        12       6         1        1           20         5.80                  116.oo
Trailer (4-man)                  0         4       2         1        -            7         7. 50 ,)4.
Trucks (3-5 t)                   0         4       2         -        -            6         2.21                   13.26
Durp truck (6 m3)                o        22      1l         5        3           41         4.04h
Water tanker (8 m3)               0        8        4        -         -          12         5.26                   k
Service truck                    o         2       1         -         -           3         5.20                   15
Soil laboratory truck            o         2       1         -        -            3         2.50
Car (50 HP)                      O         6       3         -        -            9         1.12                   10 o'
Miscellaneous (tools)                                                                                                  70
/ Figures in parentheses indicate renewal needs to be financed by the Government as a recurrent expenditure.
Source: SETEC Highway Maintenance Study - Deceeber 1971
Mission estimateo - March 1972
June 2, 1972



Table 6
IVORr COAST
TRIRD HIGlWY PROJEOT
Technical Assistance Requirenocts
(uan-month)
A. Routine Maintenance                            Proid,d
Planning Division                              el    1973  1974  1975  1976   Total
Project Coordinator (engineor/econodiat)         C       12    12    12    12        48
Organization Expert                             I         9    12      3     -       24
Surveyor                                        I        12    12    12      -       36
EquiDment Division
Muster mschanic, central (Abidjan)
vorkshop                                       r       12    12    12    12        48
Master uechanic, Bouake vorkahop                 I        -    12    12    12        36
Mauter mechanic, Daloa vorkshop                  I        -      -    12    12       24
Master mechanic, lorhogo workuhop                I        -      -     -    12       12
Inspector, central vorkahop                     C        12    12    12    12        48
?hchanic, regional vorkahopa                     C       12    12    12    12        48
Stores expert, regional vorkshops                C       12    12    12    12        48
Training expert                                  C       12    12    12    12        48
13. Betterment Works
Periodio Mhintenance Td4vinion
Advisor to Director (ongineer)                   5       12    12      -     -       24
Maintenance expert, betterment unit              I       12    12    12    12       148
Maintenance expert, bettermnt unit               I       12    12    12    12        48
Total                              129   144   135   132       540
of which Consultants                72    72    60    60       264
Independent               57    72    75    72       276
/ c - Consulting Firm
I - Independent Expert
Source: Directorate General of Public Works,aNovember 1971.
Mission, March 1972.
June 2, 1972



Table 7
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJ1CT
Financing of Capital Projeet Costs
(CFAF million
Governnent                                                       Bank
Financing               Bank Pinancing                Total   Financing
Local           Local     Foreign      Total
A.  Highway Maintenance and
-etterment Program
Routine Maintenance
Buildi.n,s:  workshops                         21.0              0         570-         57-.         7t-°     72%
classroome and offices                               O        21.0         21.0         30.0   '  20,
llorkshop equipment                              8.'             °         [40.0        40.0         0.0 3° 3°   %
Equipment and vehicles                        152.5              0        447.0        447.0        599.5     75%
Technical assistance                           29.8           44.3        223.9        268.2        298.0     90%
220.3  44. 3              -789          833.2      1,053.5      5
Betterment Works
Equipment and vehicles                        119.0              0        453.0        453.0       572.0      79%
Culverts                                       27.5              0        132.0        132.0       159.5      83%
Fuel and spare parts                          312.7              0        450.1        450.1        762.8     59%
Local salaries                              1,088.2              o            O            o     1,088.2       0
Technical assistance                           17.2           26.0        130.0        156.0        173.2     90%
7=,              2        1,165.1      1,191.1      2,755.7      43%
Subtotal                                  1,784.9           70.3     1,954.0      2,024.3      3,809.2      53%
?hysical contingencles (10C)                  178.5            7.0       195.4        202.4        380.9
Price Escalation                              111.0            6.3        154.7        161.0       272.0
Subtotal (A)                              2,074.4           83.6      2,304.1     2,387.7      4,462.1      33%
B.  Strengthening of Paved Roads
and Bridge Construction
Sikensi-Ndouci (29.3 km)                      247.3           52.7        450.0        502.7        750.0
Ndouci-Toumodi (40.3 km)                      260.8           56.2        474.0        530.2        791.0
Ndouci-Divo    (41.7 km)                      136.2           28.8        248.0        276.8        413.0
Subtotal                                    644.3          137.7      1,172.0     1,309.7      1,954.0    r`79
Boubo Bridge                                   58.7           12.3        107.0        119.3        178.c
Subtotal                                    703.0          150.0      1,279.0     1,429.0      2,132.0      £7t
Construction Supervision                       17.0           25.5        127.5        153.0       170.0      90-
Subtotal                                    720.0          175.5      1,406.5      1,582.0     2,302.0
Physical contingencies (10%)                    72,O          17.6        140.6       158.2        230.2
Price Escalation                               46,9            8.8         86.0         94.8        141.7
uabtotal (B)                                 838.9          201.9     1,633.1      1,835.0      2,67'.9    6?%
C. Abidjan Urban Development Study
Urban Study                                    21.0           52.0        117.0       9lE.0         210.0    19%
Physical contingencies (10%)                    2.1            5.2         13.7        18.9         21.0
Price Escalation                                1.2            3.1          b.0         11.1         12.3
Subtotal (C)                                    75 7                    150.7        219         2[43-3     '
GRAND TOTAL:                              2,937.6          345.8      4,o95.9      4,441.7     7,379.33D
US$ '000 Equivalent                      11,486          1,352       16,015       17,367      28,853
Rounded to:                              11,500          1,500       16,000       17,500      29,000
Source: Mission estimates - March 1972
June 2, 1972



IVORY COAST                            Table 8
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Eatimates for the Ni h      Nay ?intenanoe and Betterment ProRranm
(CTAF million)
I.  CAPITAL OOSTS                             1973        1974         1975         1976         Total
A. Bank Participation
(i)  Routine Yhintenance
Buildings                             19.5        19.5         19.5         19.5         78.0
Workshop equipnent                    10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0         40.0
New equipment and vehicles           271.0        76.9         54.7         44.4       447.0
Technical assistance                  67.1         0 4         68           62.4       268.2
Subtotal (i)            367.6       176.8l       152.5        136.3        833.2
(ii)  Betterment Works
New equipment and vehicles           255.o       145.0         38.0         15.0       453.0
Culverts                              24.0        36.0         36.0         36.0       132.0
Fuel and apare parts                  82.0       122.7        122.7       122.7        450.1
Technical assistance                  40.6        37.4         40.6         37.        156.0
Subtotal Cii)           4CW.6       341.1        237-3        211.1     1,191.1
(iii) Contingencies for (i) and (ii)
Physical (10%)                        76.9        51.8         39.0         34.7       202.4
Price escalation                       -           a86         51.5          0,        161.0
Subtotal (iii)           76.9 90.4 9                          105.6        363.4
Total Bank Participation                 846.1       608.3        480.3        453.0     2,387.7
B. Government Participation
Ci) Routine Maintenance
Buildings                              7.5         7.5          7.5          7.5        30.0
Workshop equipment                     2.0         2.0          2.0         2.0          8.0
New equipment and vehicles            67.9        37.7        26.0         20.9        152.5
Technical assistance                   77'5                                  7.2        29.8
Subtotal (i)                          5.1 43,                  37.     220.3
(ii)  Betterment Wbrks
New Equipment and vehicles            70.0        37.0          o.0         4.0        119.0
Culverts                               5.0        7.5          7.5          7.5         27.5
Fuel and spare parts                  56.8        85.3        55.3         o5.3        312.7
Local salaries                       196.6      297.2        297.2        297.2      1,308.2
Technical assistance                   4.3        4.3          4,3          4.3         17.2
Subtotal (ii)           332.7       431.3       402.3        398.3      1,564.6
(iii)  Contingencies for (i) and (ii)
Physical (10%)                        41.7       4c.7         44.5         43.6        178.5
Price escalation                        -         21.1        37.1         52.8        111.0
Subtotal (iii)           J17.7T      69.         81           96.4
Total Governmen. Participation           459.0       556.2        526.9        532.3     2,074.4
Total Capital Cost                     1,305.1    1,164.5      1,007.2        9b5.3      h,462.1
Il.  RECURRENT COSTS
A.  For Routine Maintenance
Equipment reneal                       -       175.0        183.s        257.8        616.6
Administration & cperating costs 2,279.5    2,300.8        2,349.2      2,397.5      9,327.0
Price escalation (4  p.a.)              -        S5.0        2U2.0        31ô.6        620.2
Subtotal              2,279.5    2            2,735.o          7       210,503.ô
B.  For Periodic Naintenance
Resealing of paved roads*            10D.0       200.0        300.0        300.0        900«.
Total Recurrent Highway Costs          2,379.5    2,774.,Y      3,035.6      3,273.9    11,463.Y
Total Government Expenditures          2,838.5    3,331.0       3,562.5      3,806.2    13,530.2
* Rough estimate
Source: SETEC Highiiay >kintenance Study - December 1971
D.ssion estimates - March 1972
June 2, 1972



Table 9
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estiwated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                   at End of Quarter
(US$ 1000)
1972/73
March 31, 1973                                              25
June 30, 1973                                              360
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                       1,400
December 31, 1973                                        3, 600
March 31, 1974                                           6,500
June 30, 1974                                            8,200
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                      9,400
December 31, 1974                                      10,200
March 31, 1975                                         11,200
June 30, 1975                                          12,300
197$/76
September 30, 1975                                     13,50C
December 31, 1975                                      14,>00
March 31, 1976                                         15,700
June 30, 1976                                          16" 00
1976/77
Septemiber 30, 1976                                    16,600
December 31, 1976                                      16,900
March 31, 1977                                         17,200
June 30, 1977                                          17,500
1/  The disbursement schedule is based on the following assumptions:
- tenders for equipment and vehicles wilî be called in July 1972;
- the Abidjan Urban Development Study will start in September 1972;
- technical assistance will start in January 1973; and
- strengthening works will begin in mid-1973.
Source: Mission estimates - March 1972.
June 2, 1972



Table 10
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs Without Implementation of Project
(CFAF/km)1/
Highway Maintenance and Betterment Program        Strengthening         Bridge
Costs on        Costs on         Costs on         of Paved Roads    Construction
paved roads     other all-       earth and        Costs on paved    Costs on
on which        weather          gravel           roads to be        earth and
Vehicle Type    routine           roads on        roads in-        strengthened,      gravel road
maintenance     which rou-       cluded in        widened or         detour around
to be           tine main-       betterment       partially          Boubo bridge
improved        tenance to       program          realigned
_be improved
Passenger car        11.73           15.97          17.12         114.3 - 12.40               -
Taxi                 19.89           24.32          26.00         19.50 - 20.67               -
Light truck/bus      24.33           32.13           34-39        23.79 - 25.43               -
Trucks/truck-trailer
6.5 tons          36.97          59.03           67.55         35.58 - 39.62
10 tons          47.81           81.06           93.70         45.74 - 51.94            81.06
18-20 tons        73.76         132.39          154.04         70.00 - 81.30           132.39
25-28 tons        81.06         148.9o          173.46         76.48 - 90.07           148.90
1/ Cost net-of-tax at 1968/69 prices.
Source:  SETEC Highway Maintenance and Pavement Strengthening Study, December 1971
Mission estimates, March 1972
June 2, 1972



Table 11
IVORY C1AST
MRD HUI(WUY PIOJECT
Hi.iwva  Maintenance ard Bettermet Pmgzrm:  Economie Costs and Benefits
(CFAF million)
Â. Routine Haintenance
Incremental Coets                                            Benefits
Buildings                        Savings in
Vehicles                   and                             Vehicle      Residual Value of
and     Technical   Workshop                          Operating      Buildings, Equipment       Total        Net
Year   &MiDMÊPR t  Assistanee  Eauipment Oerz   Total              Coats           and Vehicles           Benefits  BeÊLI,t
1973     137           74        32         45        288          155                   -                  155       - 133
4      90           78        32         60        260         483                    -                  483         223
5      76           76        32        100        284         838                    -                  838         554
6     132           70        32        139        373       1,217                    -                1,217         840
7      -            -         -         140        140       1,453                   250               1,703       1,563
Internal Economic Rate of Return: >50%
Benefit-cost ratio  at 12% discount rate: 2.90:1
B. Betterment Works
Incremental Costs                                             Benefits
Savings in
Vehieles                                                   Vehicle      Residual Value of
and      Technical                                      Operating   Equipment, Vehicles           Total        Net
jejU   Eamlint  Assistance  Culverta   Othore/  Total              Costs         and Culverts            Benefits    Benefits
1973     255           45         24        60        384            91                   -                    91      -'293
h     145           42        36        204        427          307                    -                  307       -120
5      38           45        36        204        323          528                    -                  528         235
6      15           41        36        204        296          534                    -                  504         -38
7      -            -         -          -          -           554                    90                 744         744
8      -            -          -         -          -           374                                       374         374
9      -                            - _             _            305                                      305         305
1980      -            -          -         -          -            120                                       120        120
Intemnal Economic Rate of Return;  50%
Benefit-cost ratio at 12% discount rate:  l.6'-:1
;/ AUl costs are net of taxes and duties, evaluated at projected 1973 prices.
/ Ineludes incremental costs of labor, fuel and spare parts for machinery and equipioent, and costs of other resources.
Source: SETEC - Highway Maintenance Study, December 1971
Mission estim.tes, March 1972
June 2, 1972



Table 12
IVORY COAST
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economie Returns on Strengthening Works and Bridge Construction
Average          Benefit-            Internal Economic
Daily        Cost Ratio!             Rate of Return
Traffie       Best      Lowest        Best    Lowest
(1974)      Estimate  Estimate2/   Estimate Estimate2/
A. Strengthening Works
Sikensi-Ndouci        2,900
Overall scheme                    2.00:1    1.50:1           22%      17%
Realignment                       2.45:1    1.85tl           29%      22%
Ndouci-Toumodi        1,600
Overall scheme                    1.40:1    1.05:1           17%      12%
W4.idening                        1.35:1    1.00:1           16%      12%
Ndouci-Divo           1,400
Overall scheme                    1.75:1    1.30:1           22%      16%
B.  Bridge Construction       1003/      6.60:1    4.90:1        > 5o%      45%
1/ Assuming a discount rate of 12%;figures are rounded.
:/ Assuming a cost-overrun of 15% combined with a benefit-reduction of 15%.
3/ Trucks of more than 6.5 t loading capacity.
Source: Mission estimate, March 1972.
June 2, 1972



IVORY COAST: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS                               New Works
AND TRANSPORT                                     Division
| Administration                    
f   Administration                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Periodic Mainitenance  Betterment
-|    Division                      Unit
DIRECTOR GENERAL
Legal                                                            OF
_   PUBLIC WORKS                                                             Planning
Planning                Road Engineering
Division__ _ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _
Accounting                                                                                                                           Hydraulic Engineering
EquimentCentral Workshop
Equipment                  ___________
Division        I
____Division______              Training Center
REGIONAL                                         D I V I S I1O N S
SOUTH                  MID-WEST                  CENTER                    NORTH                      EAST         I r        WEST                    SOUTH-WEST
ABIDJAN                   DALOA                   BOUAKE                   KORHOGO            î  ABENGOUROU    I I              MAN           fI 1     SANPEDRO   1
Subdivisions             Subdivisions             Subdivisions             Subdivisions        i    SubdiSubdivisIons          ubdivisions     I I      Subdivisions
Abidjan 1               Bouafle                   Bouake 1                 Boundiali         I      Abengourou    I j         Biankouma à   j î         Sassandra
Abidjan 2 A             Daloa                     Bouake 2                 Korhogo  A        i      Bondoukou       I i       Danane A         I        San Pedro
Aboisso                 Gagnoa                    Dimbokro                 Odienne                                  I l |     Guiglo
Adzope                  Seguela                   Yamoussoukro             Ferkessedougou   |                       I I       Man            i
Agboville A                                                                                                                    oua
Divo                                 _                                                                                                       IL
l   -----------I    ---l-------
Regional Workshop        Regional Workshop        Regional Workshop        Regional Workshop        Regional Workshop         Regional WNorkshop  | i Regional Workshop
LZ~                                                                                                                                      Y    -----j---r---
* To be constructed under the Project.
A Division and Subdivisions to be created under reorganization.
I  To be constructed or reorganized under the second phase of the highway maintenance and betterment program.                                                    Worid Bank--6490(3R)






MAP
iofRY   {{;>Pist         T of aP    ~M    A   L   I*t,m.   or Xrsltcstirpiti YPOJC
THIRD    HIGHWAY    PROI ECT                                                                                            v-^ .? t'E4 -4«S/J Ncrrr°rtrrpi Rtgt efrrkC.9
MAIGtN  iROADf NETWORK                                                                                                                           FIS a SEXs $ "", omor 
z   g    f     e      1  %        y   \            7    _t_   Irs~~~~~~~t rrtàto ai  bod           __    Otefded .ngtince.rqr
j                                    ,/                (         Ou:ngolod9 3   C< ~~~~~UppE?  VOLTA                .-          -i . 
GU I N E 
TOUBA        -                         /                      __                                                                                                    \
>   °%     {             XB~~~~~iANKOUMA                                                                      _                                      O             X  
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                 T. <r <A6rdr
A) f7    M,\( |'B.h`>KssuÙr                                                                               ^      j;:<        ooY-v                          /
jf>f;7 z F oussouRro T y f ~ABBCOPU
$es<  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Ik   -{u' i
j&x>~~~~~~~~k.                                                                                                                                                 G M A N A 
L        FRIC A           t                  G<tP4d ,
Iv   \   8t)   V   t   rono B#rAby         A   J  Z A  A/ J I C                O  C  F  A   N~~~~b.b.Alèp                              D-\
\   _-   _   t    t(itoboJ                                                                                           w    __ær     daçrsener ùb  Ttt~~~~~~Yllh"
AAC   197   R9RDC379






ExsigwolnrodLA    GOF    E R 1", 9, A   
Ca                                               e~~~~~~~~~~ 
URbAN DEVELOPMENT STUDYTHIRDHIGHWAYPROJECTDEOUFO
. *s**Highways for fso ibiliiy study                             ABIDJAN          MASTER   PLAN                                    oI  2  3  4  5                     0-  O@'
si          Zone to b. studied                                                                                                                     KILOMETERS                    N



