ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorid Frce of Povcrty  _
InfoShop                                                             24231
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/16/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GEORGIA                                Project ID: P044800
Project: Forests Development Project            Task Team Leader: Andrey V. Kushlin
Authorized to Appraise Date: June 5, 2001       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 13, 2002                    IDA Amount ($m): 15.67
Managing Unit: South Caucasus Country Unit      Sector: AT - Forestry
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Theme: ENVIRONMENT; RURAL
Sector Unit                                     DEVELOPMENT; PUBLIC SECTOR
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the project is to establish sound forest management systems that maximize the
contribution of Georgia's forests to economic development and rural poverty reduction on an
environmentally sustainable basis.
I.A.3. Project Description:
In line with the development objective, the project will contribute to general economic growth and
improve forest sector governance by putting in place appropriate legal and institutional frameworks,
fiscal incentives, and training for more effective and transparent public management of forest resources
and their more efficient, multipurpose utilization by a competitive private sector (which will reduce
corrupt and illegal activities and increase financial contribution of the forest sector). The project will
significantly increase environmental sustainability of Georgian forests by introducing
landscape-ecological methods of forest management planning (jointly with the GEF-funded Protected
Areas Development Project); by training and certifying forest users in better environmental standards of
forest utilization and road construction; by improving protection of forests from pests, fires and illegal
activities; by supporting reforestation and afforestation of critically degraded habitats; and by increasing
overall public awareness of the forest environmental issues and public involvement in forest planning
and monitoring. The project will promote rural development and poverty reduction in and near the
forested areas by generating rural employment through forest inventory and reforestation/afforestation
programs; and by launching community forest management schemes and fuelwood supply activities. The
policy reforms supported by the project would also increase overall employment in the domestic forest
sector industries.
Components:



2
ISDS
1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional
Reforms:
la. Improve Legal, Regulatory and Policy Framework
(including finalization of forest regulations to support implementation of the Forest Code,
development of total economic valuation and resource pricing mechanisms, testing of forest
auctions);
lb. Develop National Forest Program, Standards and Certification
(including participatory development of national standards in forest management and utilization
and procedures for forest monitoring, forest verification/certification and auditing of compliance
with these standards);
Ic. Strengthen Institutions and Human Resources for Improved Forest Management and Monitoring
(including development and implementation of the institutional rationalization plan, basic
rehabilitation and logistical support to forest management facilities of the State Forestry
Department, and the human resources development program);
Id. Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management
(including development and implementation of a comprehensive public awareness and
participation program).
2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area:
2a. Develop Improved Forest Inventory
(including development of Landscape-Ecological Composition plans and implementation of
improved forest inventories);
2b. Establish Forest Management Information System (FMIS) for Improved Forest Management
Planning and Monitoring;
2c. Demonstrate Environmental Forest Harvesting and Road Operations
(including training in improved forest harvesting technologies and improvement of forest roads
for better forest management in compliance with new environmental standards and forest
management plans);
2d. Develop and Implement Pilot Community Forestry Programs
(including testing a pilot community fuelwood program and a community forest management
program for wider replication across the country).
3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas:
3a. Strengthen Forest Protection and Inspection Services
(including establishment of a mobile inspectorate unit to audit forest operations at district level,
provision of logistical support and equipment to forest guards, and supporting integrated forest
hazard management, pest and fire monitoring);
3b. Develop Seed and Nursery Facilities
(including construction of, and provision of equipment for, seed processing and nursery facilities
at Sartichala nursery, and training in improving seed stands, certification of seed quality and in
modem systems and technologies quality seedlings production);
3c. Afforestation and Reforestation in Priority Areas
(including public works for afforestation and reforestation on about 8,700 ha of sloping and
degraded land in nine districts around Tbilisi, to demonstrate modem techniques for forest
establishment and develop mechanisms for public consultation and community participation).
4. Project Management and Monitoring:
(including administrating the delivery of goods, works, and consultant services to implement the



:3
ISDS
project, managing project accounts and finances, assisting SFD to prepare annual work programs
and monitoring project progress).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Georgia is a mountainous country with a population of 5.5 million people. Of the 7 million ha of its
lands, 2.8 million (40%) are forested, mainly located in the slopes of the Caucasus mountains, which
means that normal forest management is difficult and that a large proportion of the forests serve a
protective function for soil and water in these erosion-prone Much of these forest lands are located on the
slopes of the biodiversity-rich Caucasus mountains (included in WWlF's Global 200 priority ecosystems).
The forest sector is especially complex because of the broader importance forests play in the social,
cultural and economic (e.g. fuelwood and subsistence) life of Georgia. Many of the country's historical
and cultural sites are found in these forests. Because the project addresses forested lands on a land-use
planning at a landscape level, Georgia protected areas and cultural heritage sites are included in policy
and decision-making. The project is specifically designed to ensure that Georgian environmental and
cultural assets are adequately managed and protected.
The Central Caucasus ecoregion has been selected because of its importance and diversity as the pilot
area for joint landscape-level management planning activities of this project and the Protected Areas
Development Project. The ecoregion is located on the southern slopes of the Greater Caucasus
Mountains, bounded by the Nakra River to the west and Mamisoni Pass to the east. The 7,430 sq. km
region is within the administrative districts of Oni, Ambrolauri, Tsageri, Lentekhi and Mestia, and
represents three historical provinces of Racha, Lechkhumi and Svaneti. The region covers an elevational
range of 700-4,000 m, and possesses unique biological, landscape, and cultural diversity, a number of
endemic species of flora and fauna, and fragile forest and alpine habitats and ecosystems. To date, no
protected areas have yet been officially designated in Central Caucasus Mountain ecoregion, adding to
the urgency and priority of landscape-level integrated land management planning focusing on
conservation and multiple-purpose use.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments. An Environmental Assessment Category B was assigned to the project at its initial concept
review in June 1999. This was justified by the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) approach proposed at that
stage, considering that no major activities on the ground were to be implemented under the I st tranche of the
APL. Since then, the project concept has changed from APL to a regular sectoral investment project that
includes specific activities on the ground with potential minor environmental risks, such as demonstration of
improved forest harvesting and roading techniques, limited forest road rehabilitation and construction and
others. Therefore, further project preparation work and Environmental Assessment of the project have been
all carried out in accordance with Category A (which are very close to Category B for IDA countries
anyway). This included carrying out public consultations on the EA draft terms of reference (held in Tbilisi
on May 5, 2000). Public consultations on the final EA report have been carried out in Tbilisi and in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area in May-June 2001 and their record submitted to the InfoShop together with the
final EA report on July 11, 2001.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                  * Yes    No     TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                     *Yes     No     TBD



4
ISDS
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              *Yes     No     TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  Yes *No      TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    Yes *No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/13P 4.12)                       Yes * No      TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)               ^Yes *No                       TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                 Yes *No      TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            Yes  * No     TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          Yes * No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
As noted in the box above, the project triggers safeguard policies for Environmental Assessment, Natural
Habitats and Forestry. The project would have a positive environmental impact by supporting
sustainable forest management practices. The results of the EA are summarized below. The project
would not involve conversion of natural habitats; the landscape approach to forest management planning
being supported would improve conservation of fragile ecosystems compared with present techniques.
The project supports a sector-wide approach to improve forest management, institutions and policies and
is compliant with OP 4.36. The project supports forest protection through improved monitoring and
biological control of forest pests. It does not envisage purchase of pesticides. If a pest outbreak does
occur requiring use of pesticides, a Pest Management Plan including an authorized list of pesticides will
be prepared in accordance with OP 4.09 before pesticides are procured.
The EA concludes that the proposed project will improve overall environmental management of
Georgia's forests by: (a) introducing the right incentives for long term investment and sustainable use of
forest resources and reducing illegal felling and smuggling of timber; (b) developing technically sound
and participatory methods of forest management planning based on a technically up-to-date and reliable
information base, deploying Forest Management Information Systems and GIS technology; (c)
demonstrating advanced and environmentally less damaging equipment for harvesting, including skyline
cable lines designed for mountain terrain; (d) rehabilitating and constructing forest roads in a selected
zone of the Central Caucasus for maximizing economic benefits and reducing environmental damage
caused by long skidding distances, which create erosion channels; and (e) testing and promulgating
environmentally sound construction practices and technologies. Other environmental benefits of the
project would include reduced erosion and improved hydrological regimes of reforested areas and an
increase in atmospheric carbon sequestration resulting from afforestation activities of degraded slopes.
No serious negative impacts of the project were identified. Minor potential impacts might include
damage from misuse of harvesting and transportation equipment at demonstration and training sites.
This risk would be addressed by proper design and selection of sites for demonstration activities which
will be based on the completed forest management plans and subject to a site-specific environmental
review and permit. A similar minor risk is associated with erosion caused by misuse of equipment during
limited forest road rehabilitation and construction. This risk would be addressed by limiting road
activities only to appropriate areas delineated by the overall landscape-based forest management plan.
Additionally, road contractors would have to comply with improved road standards. Selection of road



5
ISDS
sites would also be subject to site-specific environmental review and permit.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Per above, no potential cumulative impacts were identified.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Per above, no potential long-term impacts were identified.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
provides for a phased screening and mitigation of the above-mentioned project risks. All project
activities were categorized according to expected environmental impact. Those activities that bear even
small potential risks (such as the ones listed above) will be subject to site-specific environmental impact
assessments (EIAs) with proper public consultations in accordance with the Bank's safeguards policies.
The Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural Resources (MEPNR) has confirmed and detailed
this proposed phased approach to site-specific EIAs in its letter dated May 21, 2001, which was
subsequently reflected in the PIP. The negotiated Credit Agreement stipulates that during project
execution site-specific EIAs, satisfactory to the Bank, will be prepared and environmental permits issued
in accordance with such EIAs. The environmental aspects of project implementation would be
monitored by the MEPNR in accordance with the Georgian environmental legislation and as stipulated in
the Credit Agreement. These activities are fully budgeted for in the detailed project cost tables that are
available in the PIP.
The EMP has incorporated sound safeguards regarding any project activities with potential
environmental risks. The best-practice guidelines will guide the planning and design of all new and
rehabilitated forest roads under the Project. All roads supported by the Project will only be planned in
accordance with detailed landscape forest management plans and will also be subject to an individual
EIA. The development of best practice guidelines through an open, participatory and consultative
process (considering environmental and social concems) and the requirement to have an EIA for each
new road is a significant change in forest road design and construction in Georgia, setting an important
precedent.
Risks to cultural property are not anticipated, since production forests are not generally located in or near
cultural heritage sites. If there any such sites are identified during the forest landscape planning process
(chance finds), they would be assessed and in accordance with OPN 11.03, appropriate measures would
be designed and implemented to ensure that there is no damage to cultural property.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The four main groups of stakeholders that will affect project design and implementation are: the general
population, whose degree of poverty largely determines the need to cut wood for heating and cooking
needs; the NGO community, dominated by environmental and advocacy organizations; national forest
management agencies; and forest management districts. The main conflicts among stakeholders will
center on enforcement of existing laws and the extent to which the Government supports business
interests over preservation.



6
ISDS
Stakeholders were consulted during the project's Social Assessment and Environmental Assessment.
Public review and discussion of the proposed project was carried out through dissemination of the draft
SA and EA reports and a series of public meetings in Tbilisi and in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (Oni,
Ambrolauri). The consulted groups included: Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural
Resources, Georgia Greens-Friends of Earth, Green Alternative, NACRES, Georgia Protected Areas
Programme, WWF-Georgia, Transparency International-Georgia, Anticorruption Bureau of Georgia,
Georgian Academy of Sciences, Georgian Agricultural Academy, Tbilisi State University, district
authorities and the local population in the Central Caucasus (Oni and Ambrolauri Districts).
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                             6/22/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                         5/18/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop                                          7/11/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED              2/8/2002
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop



7
ISDS
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Andrey V. Kushlin                            02/08/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Bernard Baratz                           02/21/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead                       03/09/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCN         FEEDBACK      SITE MAP       SHOWCA5E      l



