DQcunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 24156-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNr OF SDR 12.6 MILLION (US $15.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR A
FORESTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 17, 2002
South Caucasus Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
GEL I = US$0.4474
US$1 = GEL 2.2349
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           - Adaptable Program Loan
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CCPA          - Central Caucasus Pilot Area
CDM           - Clean Development Mechanism
CIDA          - Canadian International Developm,ent Agency
DPA           - State Department of Protected Areas, Reserves and Hunting
EA            - environmental assessment
ECA           - Europe and Central Asia Region of the World Bank
EIA           - environmental impact assessment
EMP           - environmental management plan
ERR           - economic rate of return
EU            - European Union
FAO           - Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FDP           - Forests Development Project
FIN             Forest Integrity Network
FMIS          - forest management information system
FMP           - forest management plan
FMR           - financial management report
FSDC          - Forest Sector Development Center
GEF           - Global Environment Facility
GEL           - Georgian Lari
GIS           - geographic information system
GDP           - Gross Domestic Product
IDA           - Intemational Development Association
IDF           - Institutional Development Fund
IMF           - International Monetary Fund
ICfW          - Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
LEC           - landscape-ecological composition (or 'carcass')
MEPNR         - Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural Resources
MoF           - Ministry of Finance
NFP           - National Forest Program
NGO           - non-govenmmental orgaiization
NWFP          - non-wood forest products
OECD          - Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
OED           - Operations Evaluation Departnent of the World Bank
PADP          - Protected Areas Development Project



PPF           - Project Preparation Facility
QAG           - Quality Assurance Group
PREGP         - Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth Paper
SA            - social assessnent
SFD           - State Forestry Department
SIDA          - Swedish Intemational Development Cooperation Agency
SIL           - Specific Investment Loan
SOE           - Statement of Expenditures
TACIS         - Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States
TEV           - total economic valuation
TOR           - terns of reference
UNFCCC        - United Natioas Framework Convention on Climate Change
UNFF          - United Nations Forum on Forests
USAID         - United States, Agency for Intemational Development
VAT           - value added tax
WWF           - World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director   Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:   Maijory-Anne Bromhead
Task Team Leader    Andrey V. Kushlin






GEORGIA
FORESTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and (Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                6
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project                   11
3. Benefits and target popiulation                                                  11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        1 3
2. Major related projects fmnanced by the Bank and other development agencies       13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      15
E. Summay Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         1 6
2. Financial                                                                        1 7
3. Technical                                                                        17
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Environmental                                                                    19
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  23



2. Critical risks                                                                   24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   24
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         25
2. Other                                                                            25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      49
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                                50
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            68
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    69
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   87
Annex 8: Documnents in the Project File                                                88
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         91
Annex I 1: Summary Social Assessment and Public Participation Plan                     93
Annex 12: Summary Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan          102
Annex 13: Letter of Forest Sector Development Policy                                  110
MAP(S)
IBRD 31495: Georgia Forests Development Project - Project Areas
IBRD 31468: Georgia Forests Development Project - Main Forest Types and Project Activities



GEORGIA
Forests Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
South Caucasus Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Date: May 17,2002                               Team Leader: Andrey V. Kushlin
Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor              Sector Director: Laura Tuck
Project ID: P044800                              Sector(s): AT - Forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Rural Development; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     (1X Credit   C I Grant   [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15.7
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Crediit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     5.66           0.01          5.67
IDA                                                          10.68          4.99         15.67
Total:                                                       16.34          5.00         21.34
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: STATE FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
Georgian State Department of Forest Management
Address: 9, Mindeli Street, Tbilisi, Georgia
Contact Person: Mr. Merab Dvaii, Deputy Chairman
Tel: (+995-32) 53-72-36         Fax: (+995-32) 53-72-37          Email: kmetreveli(gol.ge
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2003       2004      2005      2006       2007      2008       2009
Annual     0.47       2.(1      3.05      3.46       2.58      2.37       1.18      0.55
Cumulative     0.47      2.48      5.53       8.99     11.57      13.94     15.12     15.67
Project implementation period: FYO2-09 (including PPF)
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2009
eS PAD F.- P.  M0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to establish sound forest management systems that maximize the contribution
of Georgia's forests to economic development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally
sustainable basis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Achievement of these objectives will be measured by:
*   Increase in public forest revenues per unit of area, from improved forest monitoring, fee collection
mechanisms, and more efficient resource use in project areas;
*   Increase in area covered by forest inventory carried out in accordance with the improved methodology
and management plans and managed by properly trained and equipped forest management units;
*   Decrease in area of degraded lands through priority afforestation, reforestation and protection
programs for shelterbelts, eroded areas and coppice forests;
*   Improved affordability of fuelwood for local population and increase of their revenues through
improved forest management programs; and
*   Increase in public support for sustainable forest management, and participation of civil society in forest
management and monitoring.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/21/97 (Next CAS proposed for Board Discussion
December 2002)
The draft CAS has two primary objectives: (i) strengthen and broaden growth, including the removal of
policy, institutional and infrastructure obstacles to private sector development; and (ii) develop and
strengthen Georgia's human capital. The project would contribute to the first objective by improving public
sector management and governance and strengthening the framework for sustainable management and
investment in the forest sector. It would contribute to the second objective by strengthening the forest
management institutions, and by empowering local communities to participate in and benefit from improved
forest management. The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper was discussed at the Board on January
11, 2001 (Document number IDA/SecM-0697). The Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth Paper
(PREGP), supported by the Bank and the IMF, recognizes the linkages between poverty reduction and
environmental sustainability. The CAS recognizes these linkages through support to the Forests
Development Project and other initiatives. Direct poverty reduction impacts are expected to be realized
through increased revenues from timber and non-wood forest products, and better access to fuelwood and
grazing resources. Further, the rural population in the priority afforestation areas would benefit from
reduced erosion of slopes and higher productivity of agricultural lands.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Georgia is a mountainous coumtry covering 70,000 kmn with a population of 5.5 million people, 40% of
whom are rural dwellers. The economy deteriorated after independence from the Soviet Union, and
although the reform agenda is quite advanced and the economy is growing, per capita GDP (US$970) is
still well below 1990 levels.
Georgia's climate and topography are varied, with annual rainfall between 600 and 4000 mm and elevations
rising to 5000 m. Forests cover 40% of the country (2.75 million hectares), largely in the Greater
Caucasus Mountains (Georgia.'s northern border), the Lesser Caucasus (its southem border), and in
intervening lowlands and footh.ills. An additional 24% is classified as pasture land, 11% as arable land and
5% horticulture and tree crops. Over 80% of the forest land (or 2.2 million hectares) is managed by the
state. Of this amount, only 20 to 30% is further classified as production forest, with the rest being
conservation and recreation forests. Standing wood is estimnated at 434 million m, or more than 80 m per
person, three times the European average. Although the total forest area has not decreased after
independence, unchecked logging of higher quality trees has contributed to a notable degradation of
composition and quality of Georgian forests.
Georgian forests have a rich and varied ecology; they are the habitat for over 4000 vascular plant species
and 573 vertebrates. Much of the forest land is located on the slopes of the Caucasus Mountains (included
in World Wide Fund for Nature's (WWF) Global 200 priority ecoregions) and help prevent soil and water
erosion in these erosion-prone areas. Deciduous forest species predominate, including beech (Fagus
orientalis), which comprises nearly half of the forest area, oak (mostly Quercus iberica), hornbeam
(Carpinus caucasica), alder (,41nus glutinosa) and chestnut (Castanea sativa). Conifers include spruce
(Picea orientalis), fir (Abies nordmanniana) and pine (Pinus sosnowskyi).
Main Sector Issues
Weak Lezal, Institutional and Financial Framework for Sustainable Forest Management
The State Forestry Department (SFD) is responsible for forest policy and the management of state forests.
It is not involved in commercial forest harvesting. SFD is composed of a central office in Tbilisi, 48
district offices, one park, and one nursery. It has a total staff of 2,637 people - most of whom work in the
district offices. In addition, there are three specialized forest entities that are responsible for seed selection,
seed testing, and forest inventory and management planning. They have full managerial autonomy from
SFD, but work as in-house contractors, and are therefore dependent on SFD for much of their financing.
Since independence, the SFD has suffered from declining budgets and real salaries for forest management
and protection, severely undermining its capacity to properly enforce forest laws and regulations. The
present financing system, unde,r which revenues ('stumpage' royalties) from forest harvesting are allocated
through the Treasury system t) local authorities rather than back to the SFD, does not provide adequate
incentives for the "public good" aspects of forest management. Forest operators - most of whom are
private - do not have a long-term forest tenure or planning horizon, and are only interested in short-term
monetary gains, rather than in medium-term sustainability of their forest operations (the system of forest
taxes and sales is cumbersome and non-transparent, favoring short-term behavior). Commitment of local
administrations to supporting sustainable forestry is also insufficient (community participation in forest
management is not operationalized, and there are no extension services to support it). Without adequate
- 3 -



central funding, proper private sector incentives, and sufficient local 'ownership', efforts for monitoring and
control of forest harvesting alone are inadequate, creating significant opportunities for further violation of
the forest laws. In addition, the alignment of the present 48 forest districts needs to be rationalized, and the
reorganized (enlarged) districts need to be staffed by adequately trained professionals who are properly
equipped to ensure the required management, extension and monitoring functions. Forest management
(including forest assessment, inventory, protection, multiple-purpose use planning, and extension) must be
financed adequately if the Government wishes to maximize the value of forests to Georgia's people and
economy.
Lack of Comprehensive Forest Management Planning
Partly because most Georgian forests were managed primarily for protection, the protected area network is
presently insufficient. Protected areas, which are managed by the State Department of Protected Areas,
Reserves and Hunting (DPA), comprise only 2.7% of the land area, and have been managed primarily for
research purposes, rather than to assure sustainable conservation management. Although there is general
collaboration between DPA and SFD, the division between protection and production functions hinders the
adoption of modem multiple-use forest planning, management and conservation.
According to forest regulations, forest inventories and management plans are supposed to be prepared
according to a 10-year rolling program, but currently, only 0.5 million ha (17%) of the forest estate have
updated forest management plans. Consequently, SFD lacks sufficient up-to-date information on forest
resources, preventing it from making informed decisions and pricing resources adequately. Forest
management plans urgently need to be updated. In addition, management planning needs to be more
cost-effective and explicitly incorporate landscape and ecosystem values, with detailed inventory
undertaken only in areas which are managed for production forestry (about 20-30% of the forested area).
Areas that are identified for their high biodiversity, recreational or aesthetic values should be managed for
conservation.
Degradation of Forest Lands Due to Illegal and Unsustainable Forest Utilization
During the Soviet era, Georgia obtained low cost timber and wood products imported from remote areas of
Russia (up to 3.5 million m annually), allowing its forests to be managed for protection (72%) and
recreation (24%). Since independence, the loss of cheap wood imports has led timber processors to harvest
Georgian forests. There is also a visible trade in illegally harvested timber in the form of trucks with
unrecorded high-quality beech logs crossing the Turkish border, but it accounts for only 6% of total
estimated harvested volume. The most immediate threat to Georgian forests is the harvesting of fuelwood.
Declining GDP, rising poverty, and the decline in energy subsidies for fossil fuels has led to greatly
increased use of fuelwood. At present, nearly 60% of the annual forest harvest (or about 720,000 mi) is
unrecorded fuelwood.
Another factor leading to the degradation of Georgian forests is outdated harvesting methods. Private
harvesters often utilize rudimentary and inefficient equipment, are wasteful of the resource, seldom follow
principles of biologically sustainable management and regeneration, discourage development of competitive
processing industries, and contribute nothing to public revenues. With more adequate forest management
systems in place and better enforcement of improved forest utilization standards and codes of practice, the
level of unregulated harvest would decrease substantially, providing more fuelwood to the population at
affordable prices and generating much higher value-added from commercial-grade timber.
- 4 -



Government Strategy
The Govermment is now confrortted with the following pressing challenges related to forests: (i) profound
stagnation and de-monetization of rural economies and livelihoods with increased dependence on forest
products for subsistence; (ii) serious degradation of public sector capacity for adequate forest rnanagement;
(iii) acute need to realize econornic potential of a rapidly developing private sector, (iv) increased public
awareness of forest environmenetal issues; and (v) politically heated drive against corruption in general and
illegal activities in forestry in particular.
In 1996-1999, the Government, in consultation with the relevant stakeholders, prepared a draft Forest
Strategy and a Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, which emphasized the need to manage the change
from a forest management reginme oriented towards conservation to one which balances conservation and
sustainable use. The Government also prepared a National Environmental Action Plan that includes
improved forest management as a priority. The Global Environment Facility (GEF) Protected Area
Development Project (PADP), approved by the Board on May 24, 2001, will support multiple-purpose
land use planning, combined with strengthening of the country's protected area system.
To enable proper contribution of the forest sector to the national economy, Georgia has begun to move
towards a market-driven forest economy. At the same time, the need to maintain environmental and social
functions of forests continue to increase. The Georgian authorities have, in collaboration with a range of
stakeholders, prepared and adopted a new Forest Code (1999). Its major innovations include: (1) defining
the principles of protection, suslainable development, and management of the forests of Georgia on the
basis of the 1992 Rio Declaration (i.e. proclaiming focus on multiple use of forests and its environmental,
economic, social, and cultural dimensions); and (2) allowing for multiple forms of forest ownership (state,
municipal/community, church, and priyate). The Code also allows for long-term lease of forests and
privatization of forest managerrment activities. Delineation of regulatory and oversight responsibilities
between the State Forestry Department and the Ministry of Environment has been improved. However,
further work is needed to make the Code operational and transparent. Many of its important regulatory
provisions are not yet effectively applied (due to lack of subsidiary regulations and the public finance
crisis). The Government has periodically beeni under pressure to reintroduce temporary bans on
commercial forest harvesting and on log exports (lifted with enactment of the Forest Code in 1999) to
protect the forests or local industries.
In 2000, Georgia borrowed an advance of US$0.99 million under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility
(PPF), in order to accelerate development of the regulations to permit implementation of the Forest Code,
and develop concrete plans for forest sector institutional reorganization and financial reforms. The PPF
has also financed elaboration ol improved forest inventory methodologies, promotion of public awareness
in forest management, as well Es project preparation.
Last year, the Government of Georgia developed proposals for furthering the forest sector reform agenda,
which include adoption of effective control of the origin of timber, a move to market-based forest resource
pricing, introduction of competitive forms of resource sales (auctions and tenders), reinvestment of part of
forest revenues into improved forest management (see details in the Letter of Forest Sector Development
Policy in Annex 13). In 2001, important initial steps were already taken to elaborate this expanded reform
agenda, and begin addressing the root causes of illegal and corrupt activities in the sector. A system of
better wood origin control was instituted and cooperation between the SFD and the Customs Department
improved; refereAce prices for limber were increased; a package of legal amendments to the Forest, Tax
and Budget Laws (developed by the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade jointly with SFD) was
approved by Government and submitted for parliamentary approval, to allow re-flows of part of forest
-5-



revenues back into forest sector. A comprehensive audit of the SFD and its field operations was
undertaken by the Chamber of Control. The project as a whole, and Component I in particular, will
provide targeted support to these Government efforts in 'fine-tuning' and implementing the reform program
nationwide over a 4-5 year period.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The current situation in Georgia presents a rare window of opportunity to address these sector-wide issues
in a systemic, coherent manner. The project would help the Governnent, comnunities and civil society to
jointly implement the proposed forest sector reforms. Particular project focus would be on addressing the
above main issues.
Targeted project efforts would be aimed at strengthening forest sector governance and accountability
through the legal, institutional andfinancial reforms for sustainable forest management. In this area,
key project emphasis will be on: (i) finalizing, publicly discussing and harmonizing forest, tax and budget
laws and implementing regulations, including improvements in forest financing; (ii) participatory
development of a long-term National Forest Program, including national forest policy, strategy and
standards; and (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity (human resources and basic office
infrastructure) to plan, implement, monitor and regulate forest operations at field level, while creating a
more favorable environment for private sector utilization, within a clear regulatory framework for resource
pricing and sales. Another key dimension of improved sector governance is the increased civil society
participation in forest management and independent monitoring.
Secondly, the project would assist to develop capacity and implement comprehensive forest management
planning. This would include: (i) improving the accuracy, cost-effectiveness, multiple-purpose and
stakeholder orientation of forest inventory and management planning systems; (ii) strengthening forest
operators' skills in compliance with improved forest management plans, through demonstration of and
training in relevant utilization techniques; and (iii) establishing viable community forest management
schemes for increased supply of affordable fuelwood and fodder.
Lastly, Georgia needs timely support in arrestingforest degradation. Critical project interventions are
required in: (i) strengthening the capacity of government, local communities and civil society for
independent forest inspection and monitoring, and in joint protection from illegal forest activities; (ii)
establishing a viable system of controling natural forest hazards (pests, diseases and fires); and (iii)
supporting the transition to a self-sustaining system of afforestation and reforestation works that would be
financed by the public sector, supervised by professional civil servants, and implemented by local
contractors and communities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would support implementation of national regulatory, financial and institutional reforms in the
forest sector (see also Annex 13); strengthening of public institutions involved in forest management and
monitoring; development of sustainable forest planning and management techniques in demonstration areas
that would serve for replication; and improvements in forest protection and reforestation in selected priority
areas.
-6 -



Indicative               Bank-       % of
Component                      Sector         Costs       % of     financing    Bank-
_ _ _ _ __ (US$M)  Total  (US$M)  financing
1. Improve forest sector governance  Natural Resources       3.87       18.1       2.94        18.8
through national regulatory, financial  Management
and institutional reforms
2. Improve forest planning and       Forestry                5.54       26.0        4.43       28.3
management in Central Caucasus pilot
area
3. Forest protection and reforestation  Forestry             8.84       41.4        6.46       41.2
in selected priority areas
4. Project management and            Envirorunental          2.10        9.8        0.85        5.4
monitoring*                          Institutions
5. Project preparation facility$"'   Environmental           0.99        4.6        0.99        6.3
Institutions
Total Project Costs                      21.34       100.0      15.67      100.0
Total Financing .Required                       21.34       100.0      15.67      100.0
* Includes US $0.89 million in Govenment contribution for taxes on employment of international consultants project-wide.
** The PPF was planned for financing of preparatory activities to develop new forest regulations and management planning
techniques, and for project management capacity building. Although some of the planned activities were completed, it was
decided that the full amount of the P]'F (US$990,000) would be incorporated into project implementation costs. The totals
shown for Components 1, 2 and 4 bel ow are the ful cost for implementation of those components (compared to the table above,
from which some amounts have been removed from these components, to account for the PPF). The cost for Component 3 is
the same in the table above as in the text below.
1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory. Financial and Institutional
Reforms (US$4.11 million). The project would complete the institutional and regulatory reforms initiated
with PPF financing to:
(a) Improve Legal, Regulator), and Policy Framework This would include: (i) finalizing subsidiary laws
and implementing regulations under the 1999 Forest Code, comprising preparation of a draft law on
privatization of state forests and development of regulations on local (community) forests, independently
verifiable forest sector monitoring (including wood flow control and forest audits), and harmonizing forest
legal acts with other branches of law, such as environmental, land, tax, budget laws and regulations; (ii)
implementing changes in the financial and economic regulations related to the forest sector, especially with
regard to market-based mecharisms for proper valuation, pricing and sales of forest resources and
guaranteed refinancing of public forest management costs; (iii) developing a methodology for total
economic valuation (TEM9 of forest resources; and (iv) developing a new system offorest auctions,
featuring market-based pricing above the minimum cost of forest resource management ("floor price") and
separation of timber sales requirements from those for forest harvesting by duly certified operators. Since
the sustainability of project investments will depend on long-term availability of public financing for forest
management, it was agreed that before the start of project funding for the largest pubic investment
subcomponent (reforestation in priority areas), a package of official documents describing and
regulating mechanisms for sustainable provision of funding for public forest management for
- 7 -



afforestation and reforestation would have been endorsed or approved by the Borrower or its
relevant agencies (see Section C.2). This is reflected in the credit agreement as a disbursement condition
for forest works.
(b) Develop National Forest Program, Standards and Certification. The new National Forest Program
(NFP) will be a high-level political document that will set up the country's medium- and long-term goals
regarding its forests. Development of the NFP will comply with the latest recommendations of the United
Nations Forun on Forests (UNFF) and follow a broad participatory process engaging key stakeholders.
As a key tool in implementation of the NFP, the project will support participatory development of national
standards in forest management and utilization, as well as procedures for monitoring,
verification/certification and auditing of compliance with these standards. The work on the national forest
standards and forest verification/certification procedures is consistent with one of the target priorities of the
World Bank-WWF Global Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use and, as such, will receive
support from the Alliance and be carried out in close cooperation with the WWF (through its Georgian
office) and other interested organizations.
(c) Strengthen Institutions and Human Resources for Improved Forest Management and Monitoring.
The project will support development and implementation of a detailed program to strengthen the financial
and institutional capacity of the Georgian forest sector. Intemational and local technical assistance will be
provided to develop specific recommendations regarding realignment of functional responsibilities within
the SFD and identification of corresponding human resource requirements in its central and field offices;
streamlining coordination between SFD and other govenmment agencies and private companies dealing with
forest sector; establishing systems of independently verifiable forest sector monitoring; rationalization of
SFD territorial network of field offices; and overall improvement of cost-effectiveness and efficiency of
public forest management operations. Subsequent to completion of this institutional rationalization plan,
the project will support implementation of its key elements, including a comprehensive program of human
resources development. This program will address immediate needs of professional development and
retraining of existing forest management staff in SFD and other governmental agencies, as identified by the
rationalization plan mentioned above. It will also redesign and launch an improved system of graduate
forest education to facilitate influx of younger, well-educated personnel into forest management and
utilization. The project will also support basic rehabilitation of, and logistical support to, forest
management facilities in the SFD central office and in the reorganized forest districts, to ensure their
minimum adequate operational and monitoring capacity.
(d) Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management The project will develop and implement a
strategic action plan to increase public support for sustainable forest management. This will include
strengthening the capacity of forest managers at the center and in the field offices in working effectively
with local communities, schools, nongovernmental organizations and the media to promote knowledge of
sustainable forest management. Efforts will be targeted at the local level, through school programs and
activities with community "friends of forest" associations, to build civil society involvement in sustainable
forest management and will include establishing public information rooms in the districts and 'hotlines'
(mailboxes etc.) for facilitating feedback from rural areas. These activities will be coordinated with other
donor-supported partnerships, such as the Forest Integrity Network, that aim to promote independent forest
monitoring capacity within the Georgian civil society.
- 8 -



2. Imurove Forest Planning and ManaEement in Central Caucasus Pilot Area (US$6.05 million). The
main objective of this component is to develop an integrated framework of new, economically sound and
environmentally sustainable approaches to forest management and operations and test its implementation in
the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, which comprises 16% of the country's forests. The project will:
(a) Develop Ecosystems-Based Landscape Planning and Forest Inventory using sustainable forest
management principles. Activities would be undertaken jointly with the GEF-financed Protected Areas
Development Project and woulc include development of: (i) Landscape-Ecological Composition (LEC)
plans, which are based on analyzing layers of geological, geodynamic, biodiversity, and forestiy
information in a GIS system; an.d (ii) ecosystem-based inventory involving multiple stakeholders.
(b) Develop a Forest Management Information System (FMIS) to improve forest management planning
and monitoring. The FMIS will be crucial in providing decision-makers and SFD staff a tool for making
effective use of the information gathered during the forest resources inventory and will help managers
formulate management plans and follow-up operations. It will also form a critical basis for monitoring and
independent auditing of compli;mce of forest operators with forest management plans and national forest
standards. The project will also fiud intemational and local technical assistance to develop and launch
forest management planning guidelines and assist in management planning. Special emphasis will be given
to incorporating non-wood forest products (NWFP), hunting and sustainable tourism into management
planning. Funding is available to ensure public participation in the planning process.
(c) Demonstrate Environmental Forest Harvesting and Road Operations. An improved planning process
will not have a strong impact if forest operations are not improved simultaneously. Consequently, the
project will support establishment of demonstration units for low impact harvesting and transport systems;
these units will be operated by the SFD to train public and private forest operators in application of
improved harvesting techniques. The project will also invest in a limited scope of restoration and
construction of main forest roads and light roads for fuelwood access. The extent of the road program, to
be competitively contracted to qualified private operators, will depend on the outcome of the FMIS
planning in each district, but funding for a minimum requirement (100 km of rehabilitation and 75 km of
construction of main forest roads; 20 km of rehabilitation and 40 lan of construction of light roads) has
been reserved in the project budget (about $1.98 million). This would facilitate compliance of forest
operators and contractors with new national standards, which will be developed under the project (see
Component 1). A site-specific Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be carried out for each
sub-project.
(d) Develop and Implement Pilot Community Forestry Programs. In conjunction with technical
assistance to draft the regulationls on community forestry (finded under Component 1), the project will
support piloting practical arrangements for community-based forest activities for their further replication
across the country. A community fuelwood supply program will be tested in 2004-2005 in two districts
(Oni and Ambrolauri). Furthermore, a broader community forest management program will assist
self-selected communes in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area in preparation and implementation of
participatory communal forest/range/NWFP management plans, whose primary objective will be to ensure
sustainable and affordable supply of fuelwood, fodder and other products to the local population. This
program will be coordinated with other donor-financed projects (e.g. KfW project in Kharagauli) and build
on their lessons. In addition, the project will support development of necessary extension services and
training in local forest, range and NWFP management.
-9.



3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas (US$8.84 million). This component
will strengthen forest inspection and monitoring programs, forest protection, seed improvement and nursery
systems, and establish afforestation and reforestation demonstration sites based on economic, social and
environmentally sustainable principles.
(a) Strengthen Forest Protection and Inspection services. Project activities under this sub-component
include: (i) establishing a mobile inspectorate unit to audit forest operations at district level; (ii)
strengthening enforcement in the Central Caucasus and other selected priority areas through logistical
support and equipment for forest guards; and (iii) supporting integrated forest hazard management,
including providing grants for applied research in forest protection, refurbishing the forest protection
laboratory, undertaking pest and fire monitoring, and providing forest hazard protection equipment. These
activities will be complemented and strengthened by independent monitoring efforts by various
nongovernmental organizations (see Annex 2).
(b) Development of Seed and Nursery Facilities. Activities under this sub-component will strengthen seed
collection, processing, certification and storage capacity to respond to sustainable national seed
requirements, protect valuable genetic resources and restore market confidence in seed quality and supply.
Furthermore, this sub-component aims to increase the seedling production capacity of Sartichala nursery to
meet future afforestation and reforestation needs, create a center of excellence for seedling production; and
demonstrate best practice for forest nurseries and seed processing throughout Georgia. This will be
achieved through: (i) construction of a new seed processing, nursery and administrative buildings at
Sartichala nursery; (ii) introduction of seed processing, collection and stand improvement equipment; (iii)
provision of an irrigation system, nursery equipment and machinery; (iv) restoration of existing natural
windbreaks, fencing and frost protection facilities in Sartichala and use of containerized seedlings; and (v)
training of SFD staff in improving seed stands, certification of seed quality, and in modem systems and
technologies for quality seedlings production.
(c) Afforestation and Reforestation in Priority Areas. This sub-component targets an area of
approximately 8,700 ha of sloping and degraded land in nine districts around Tbilisi. Illegal fuelwood
cutting, over-grazing, and lack of maintenance has resulted in partial and complete deforestation in these
areas, together with decreased agricultural production, erosion, and sedimentation of waterways and
reservoirs, and decreases in biodiversity. In addition, social and recreational benefits have been reduced
significantly in areas adjacent to community and urban areas. The project will finance up to 3,100 ha of
afforestation and 5,600 ha of reforestation on state-owned and eligible private and community-owned lands
in the Priority Areas, based on screening against identified criteria, and where it can be shown that the
benefits clearly outweigh the investment costs. Criteria for eligibility of afforestation projects for carbon
credits will be considered. In addition, the sites will demonstrate modem techniques for forest
establishment and the important role of public consultation and community participation. After project
completion, with the adoption of the new forest management financing scheme (see Component 1 a), the
Government shall be able to finance priority afforestation/reforestation works throughout the country.
4. Proiect Mananement and Monitorinn (US$2.34 million) The Forest Sector Development Center
(FSDC) has been established by the Presidential Decree as the project management unit. It reports to SFD
on technical matters and is housed within this department to ensure project ownership by the implementing
agency. However, on financial management and disbursement matters, FSDC is reporting directly to the
Ministry of Finance, which monitors fiduciary aspects of the project implementation. FSDC is already
administering the PPF and will be responsible for day-to-day project management and monitoring.
Specifically, this will include contracting the delivery of goods, works, and consultant services to
- 10 -



implement the project, managing project accounts and finances, assisting SFD to prepare annual work
programs, and monitoring project progress against agreed deliverables. FSDC works under the direction of
an interagency Supervisory Board and includes a project director, technical manager, accountant, financial
manager, procurement officer, sicretary/interpreter and operational assistant. The project will provide
staff, office refurbishment and eq4uipment, training, technical assistance in procurement, and operating
expenses for the FSDC. The co!;t of this component also includes the Govemment contribution for taxes
(estimated at US $0.89 million) that FSDC will have to pay to the Treasury in connection with all
international consulting services contracts under the project.
2. Key policy and institutional[ reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reform is a major focus of the project, which includes restructuring of SFD to adapt to its
changing mandate, with a greater focus on forest management, sustainable use and working with local
communities.
The project would directly assist the Government in implementing key policy reformns. Component I would
specifically support: (i) revision of the method for financing SFD to guarantee for it a sustainable source of
revenue to carry out forest management and protection functions; (ii) revision of forest resource pricing
principles and methodologies, including stumpage regulations in order to differentiate by quality and
provide stronger incentives for resource conservation; and (iii) implementation of administrative regulations
in order to allow for better tracking of timber harvesting and exports and improved coordination with the
customs administration. It is stipulated in the credit agreement that before the start of project funding for
the largest subcomponent (reforestation), a package of official documents describing and regulating
mechanisms for sustainable provision of funding for public forest management for afforestation
and reforestation would have been endorsed or approved by the Borrower or its relevant agencies
(see Section G).
The Govemment's proposed forest sector reforms (see Section B.2 and Annex 13) clearly discard
commercial logging bans and timber export restrictions as inappropriate instruments that are unable to curb
corruption and improve the situation in the forest sector. However, the debate on this issue is highly
politicized. In the short-term (next 6 months), funding from the Dutch Trust Fund managed by the Bank's
Environment Departnent (up to US $50,000) would be used to help set up in-country dialogue on forest
conruption and illegal logging, as well as support neutral fact-finding using available satellite imaging
technologies. In the medium-team (12-18 months), the project would address the issue by supporting,
together with WWF and possibly other donors, a public education and awareness campaign in this area.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would have environmental benefits, including development of multipurpose, landscape
approaches to sustainable forest management and reduced damages from erosion; economic benefits,
including increased benefits from timber and non-wood forest products and employment in forests and
tourism;financial benefits to the Treasury from increased revenues from forests; and social benefits from
community participation in forest management and increased public awareness. Direct beneficiaries would
include the population in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (70,000 people), which would benefit from
increased revenues from timber and non-wood forest products and better access to fuelwood and grazing
resources; and the rural population in the priority afforestation areas, which would benefit from reduced
erosion of slopes and higher prcductivity of agricultural lands. The Georgian people have a deep
appreciation of forests, and the Imowledge that they are better managed is likely to have a "non-tangible"
value for them.



4. Instltutional and implementation arrangements:
The project's implementation arrangements have been approved by Presidential Decree, dated October 29,
2000. The project's main implementing agency is the State Forestry Department. Its staff at central and
district levels are responsible for the overall implementation of the Project and coordination and monitoring
of its technical aspects. The Ministry of Finance (MoF) is responsible for monitoring of the financial
aspects of the Credit. The Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural Resources (MEPNR) is
responsible for the monitoring of the environmental aspects of the Project in accordance with the Georgian
environmental legislation. The project is supervised by an inter-agency Supervisory Board, which is
chaired by a memnber of Parliament and comprised of representatives from key ministries/departments
(Economy, Finance, Environment, Agriculture, Forestry, Land Management, Protected Areas), the
presidential administration, academia and the NGO community. The Supervisory Board meets at least
every 3 months to ensure strategic oversight, interagency coordination and transparency of the Project. It
also approves the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Operational Manual and any changes thereto.
In order to assure coordination with the Protected Areas Development Project (PADP), its membership is
substantially the same as that of the PADP Project Steering Committee.
The project management unit is the Forest Sector Development Center of Georgia (FSDC) - founded by
Presidential Decree as a 'legal body of civil law' with overall responsibility for managing implementation of
project components, procurement, financial management, administration, reporting and monitoring. FSDC
reports to SFD on technical matters and to MoF on financial matters. FSDC has a core staff of seven,
including a project director, technical manager, financial manager, accountant, procurement specialist,
operational assistant, and secretary-interpreter. Additional consultants support SFD managers and FSDC
to organize and plan project activities under specific sub-components. FSDC is currently administering
implementation of on-going activities under the PPF.
FSDC would monitor project progress and outputs through simple project reports produced every 6
months. FSDC would also be responsible for preparing annual progress reports, which would provide
more detail on the technical details of project implementation and guide preparation of the next year's
annual work plan. The annual progress reports would highlight both implementation problems and
emerging design problems and permit adjustment of project elements as required. Funds would be provided
for independent review of particular activities if required. The format of both the semi-annual and annual
reports would be agreed upon during negotiations. Annual progress reports would be reviewed and agreed
upon annually by the World Bank. In addition, the World Bank would carry out a mid-term review at the
end of year 3, to review project progress and allow for adjustment in project design, if necessary.
Project Financial Management
Implementing Entity. FSDC will be responsible for financial management of the project, including
managing the project's Special Account, maintaining all financial documentation and producing financial
information. Financial management arrangements in FSDC are described in detail in Annex 6.
Flow of Funds. See chart in Annex 6.
AuditArrangements. Annual audits will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Association and procured by the FSDC through the Least-Cost Selection process. Audited project
financial statements will be provided to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year and
also at the closing of the project. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the credit. See
- 12-



also Annex 6 for additional details.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main project alternatives ccnsidered were whether or not to combine the Forests Development Project
(FDP) with the recently approved Protected Areas Development Project (PADP). Both share the same
objectives of sustainable use and protection of natural resources. The decision was made to implement the
two projects separately because: (i) there are different institutional responsibilities in the Government for
protected areas and for forest management; and (ii) a single project designed to achieve the objectives of
both projects would be complex and difficult to implement (QAG reviews have generally indicated that
simple projects do better in achieving their development objectives than complex projects). There is,
however, close coordination between the two projects at working level and at the field level, and both share
the same supervisory committee.
A second alternative considered was to use an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to finance the project. The
rationale behind this was that in 1998, major institutional, policy and regulatory changes, as well as
consensus-building, were perceived to be necessary. However, the Georgian Authorities decided to move
ahead with the policy and regulatory reforms and prepare the basis for institutional and management
reforms with a PPF, for which the government borrowed US$0.99 million against the credit in July 2000.
This approach has facilitated a rapid start to practical implementation of improved forest management in
the pilot regions, and better coordination in timing of implementation between the forestry project and the
protected areas project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed proJects only)
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
GEF                              Protected Areas Development     N/A           N/A
Project
IDA and GEF                      Integrated Coastal Zone          U             S
Management Project
IDF                              National Forestry Strategy        S           N/A
(completed)
GEF                              National Biodiversity             S           N/A
Strategy/Action Plan
(completed)
IDF                              National Enviromnental Action     S           N/A
Plan (completed)
IDA                              Agricultural Development          S            S
Project
IDA                              Structural Adjustment Credit 3    S            S
IDA and GEF                      Agriculture Research,            S             S
Extension and Training
- 13 -



IDA                              Irrigation and Drainage
Community Development
Project (under preparation)
Other development agencies
EU TACIS                         Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Agency Support
Technical Assistance at
Industry and Consumer level
(Component 3 - Wood Fuel
Management and Distribution
to Efficiently Supply Rural
Areas with Energy)
USAID                            Rural Energy Security Program
USAID                            Land Cadastre Project
USAID                            National Park Planning
KfW (Germany)                    Borjomi-Kharagauli National
Park Support Zone
Development Project
KfW                              Land Cadastre Project
KfW                              Communal Forest Pilot Project
(under preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience with project implementation in Georgia has indicated that strong ownership of key stakeholders,
at a political, technical and community level, is key to project success. Adequate donor coordination is also
important. Project preparation has included an extended period of consensus building at political, technical
and local level to improve approaches to forest management. There have been, and will continue to be,
extensive consultations with the donor and NGO community, with which relations in the forest sector are
good.
Implementation issues have included difficulties with counterpart funding and lack of clarity regarding
procedures for payment of VAT, social charges and taxes, and difficulties with financial management.
These issues are now being addressed at a country level with additional support and oversight being
provided from the World Bank Tbilisi Office. The project management unit, in developing its operational
manual, has taken account of the lessons learned.
Project implementation in the region more generally has also illustrated the importance of involving all
stakeholders in the planning of policy and institutional changes. When this is done well, the overall
environment, at the community, political and technical level, is generally very positive towards improved
forest management. Forestry in ECA has also benefited from an OED review of ECA forest operations
completed in 2000 in the context of a review of the 1991 Forest Strategy. The review emphasizes the
importance of stakeholder participation, but also recommends expanded support for "stand-alone" forest
projects as they can best tackle forest policy and management issues, and greater integration of forestry
issues into the country assistance dialogue.
- 14 -



4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership:
Government commitment to improved forest management is strong. The Government understands that
forest management needs to be improved for the benefit of the Georgian economy and society, and a
commitment to policy, institutional, technical and financial management changes in the sector to achieve
this objective. There has been broad govermment participation in a series of workshops undertaken in the
context of project preparation. T he Government has also demonstrated its commitment to policy change
through adoption of the new Forest Code in 1999. The President of Georgia assigned the State Minister
(Prime Minister) to oversee policy and institutional changes in the forest sector.
The Government, with the ratification of the Parliament in July 2000, has also borrowed US$0.99 million
through the PPF to pennit imple rmentation of key provisions of the Forest Code, including preparation of
regulations, detailed planning of required institutional and organizational changes, and detailed project
preparation. The project implementation structure was approved by the Presidential decree in October
2000, and key project management appointments were made in the winter of 2001.
In April 2002, the Foreign Investment Advisory Council and the Anticorruption Council (both chaired by
the President of Georgia) endorsed the Project. In May 2002, the Government adopted the "Main
Principles of Government Policy for Georgia's Forest Sector Development in 2002-2010" (see Annex 13).
This fundamental document, signed by the State Minister, outlines the reform agenda and plan for
improving govemance and curbing corruption and illegal activities in the forest sector and is acceptable to
the Bank.
In addition, Georgia has also collaborated with FAO and a range of bilateral organizations and NGOs to
discuss and review forest management alternatives. Working with WWF, the SFD has undertaken steps to
increase public awareness of the principles of sustainable forest management (including options for forest
certification). With the Georgian Greens and other national NGOs, they are developing joint activities for
independent monitoring of forest operations in selected, most troublesome districts. With the German KIfW
and French GEF, they have prepared a pilot project to test community-based approaches to forest
management in areas near densely populated rural settlements. Aware of the broad social and
environmental values of forests, the Georgian authorities have also participated in a preliminary "total
economic valuation" (TEV) of Georgia's forests supported by the Bank to estimate the broad range of
"use" and "non-use" values of the forests, with the ultimate objective of applying this technique to forest
multiple-purpose planning and value-based resource pricing.
Georgia has recently joined the Forest Integrity Network (FIN), a partnership of international and national
advocacy organizations, with the aim of promoting independent forest monitoring capacity within the
Georgian civil society. The Anticorruption Bureau of Georgia participated in the FIN meeting in
November 2001 in Washington, DC, and agreed to coordinate these initiatives at the national level and
work closely with the Government agencies, NGOs and the World Bank. An independent study will be
carried out with donor support in 2002-2003 to help establish a baseline for such monitoring.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government of Georgia has sought Bank assistance and advice in the forest policy debate since 1996.
In addition, the Bank has provided assistance through IlDF and GEF for preparation of the Forest Strategy,
the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and National Environmental Action Plan. The GEF-financed
Coastal Zone Management Project includes support for improved management of fragile lowland forests,
and the GEF-financed Protected Areas Development Project will address conservation of forest ecosystems.
The Bank has been able to encourage and convene forest policy debates at both the technical and political
- 15 -



level. Forestry issues related to trade have been part of the ongoing debate of economic reform. The Bank
has also facilitated improved coordination between the environmental and the forest management interests
in Georgia, balancing conservation and sustainable development. It has been able to bring its experience
with forest reform in other transition economies (e.g. Croatia, Poland, Bosnia, Romania, Russia, Albania)
to assist with the debate in Georgia. The Bank-wide forest-policy review and a number of new initiatives in
forestry (e.g. the WWF/World Bank Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use, the Prototype
Carbon Fund) is also facilitating a transfer of experiences from other countries. The World Bank is also in
a unique position in its ability to relate forest sector issues to IMF discussions with the Government, the
overall economic reform agenda, and other inter-sectoral issues (e.g. energy, environment). Such
integration is already taking place through preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(I-PRSP) and the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Issues of forest exports have been a visible
item on the IMF agenda in Georgia.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$4.82 million; ERR = 18.71 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Estimating the economic retums of a project of this kind, with a policy, institutional and management focus
rather than a direct focus on increased production, and with many benefits which are difficult to quantify,
always poses challenges. While the benefits have been estimated for each component, the project also needs
to be seen "as a whole", demonstrating improved management methods which could then be applied on a
sector-wide basis, and strengthening forest management and protection functions. While the harvested area
in Georgia, with sound management, could potentially be doubled, the economic analysis assumes no direct
increase in harvest.
The economic benefits are derived as follows: improved inventory, management systems and harvesting
methods would result in improved harvesting plans, reduced waste and higher value per unit area harvested;
improved roads would reduce transport costs, erosion and risk of landslides; and reductions in illegal
harvesting and better control and monitoring would result in less wasteful, lower-cost, harvesting and
transport; and improved pest management would reduce losses of harvestable timber. Assumptions are
described in more detail in Annex 4. Benefits have been calculated for the project as a whole, and for the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area (CCPA) and the remainder of the country separately. Because the
afforestation and shelter belt component would result in higher crop yields of neighboring agricultural land
from reduced erosion, the rates of return have been calculated separately for this component. Better
managed forests also have higher ecological values in terms of watershed protection and flood mitigation,
as well as biodiversity and non-wood forest products values. An attempt has been made to quantify these,
as well as increased recreational values (quantifiable benefits are small related to the benefits from timber).
The "most likely" scenario assumes a 40% decrease in illegal harvest in CCPA (20% in the rest of the
country), a 5% increase in timber market prices, a decrease in transportation costs in CCPA by one third, a
5% increase in harvest efficiency in CCPA (3% elsewhere), and a 30% reduction in pest damaged area in
CCPA (15% elsewhere). With cost and benefit streams estimated over a 20-year period and benefits
increasing over 8 years starting with year 3 of implementation, the "base-case" ERR is estimated at
18.71%. Because there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding some of the underlying assumptions, a
sensitivity analysis was carried out. The analysis shows that the sensitivity of the ERR to variations in
individual assumptions is limited - "no change" will not lead to a lower than 12% ERR in any of the
- 16 -



assumptions. The overall project ERR is also quite robust to variations in overall cost and benefit
estimations. The ERR drops below 12%, if all costs increase by more than 58.80% or if all benefits fall by
more than 37.00%.
(Note: 12% is the Bank-wide aqpplied threshold for an ERR, under which, a project is considered not
justified economically).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Increased revenues to the Georgian Treasury are expected from a number of sources. These include
increased tax revenues from: (a) the increased per unit values and volume of timber harvested; (b)
improved monitoring and governance, and reduction in illegal logging (and therefore collection of taxes
from these operations); and (c) better, more transparent auctions for harvests leading to higher timber
prices. Fiscal revenues include stumpage, fees from auctions, income, profits, social security and
value-added taxes. Fiscal reveaues increase dramatically under the assumptions of the analysis, notably
through increases in legal timber harvest volume and quality, auction premiums and tax collection rates.
Fiscal revenues from forests will increase from US$2.9 million to at least US$5.0 million annually by the
end of the project period. It should be emphasized that realizing these and potentially higher gains depends
on govenment fulfilling its cornm,itment to provide adequate financing to the State Forest Department to
carry out its management and protection responsibilities adequately. SFD's budget is currently
approximately US$1 million anmually. Studies during the first year will confirm what a reasonable budget
would be for forest management activities to be adequately carried out, with organizational and efficiency
gains.
3. Technical:
The proposed forest inventory system is based on a combination of landscape-ecological level inventory for
all territories and more detailed (stand-level) inventory and forest management planning for targeted areas.
This approach has been applied in France, Sweden and other countries and is being carried out in Latvia,
Albania and selected areas of I'ussia. The approach to institutional restructuring and training, while
adapted to the Georgian context, draws upon experience in other European countries. The proposed
improvements in road maintenamce and rehabilitation would use technologies adapted from Austria, France
and Switzerland that minimize erosion damage compared with more traditional approaches. Improved
approaches to harvesting would include better tree selection methods, improved tree removal methods and
improved skidding. Reforestation would utilize closed root system planting and maintenance methods,
local techniques and species of acacia, ash, maple and pine that are well-adapted to the local conditions.
4. Institutional:
Forest sector issues are handled by a number of governmuental institutions in Georgia. The State Forestry
Department (SFD), reporting directly to the President of Georgia, is the main technical line agency. With
its input, the Ministry of Econcimy, Industry and Trade sets up reference prices of timber, and the Ministry
of Environment until 1998 was issuing timber harvest licenses (SFD issues the permits now). The State
Department of Land Management is involved in delineation of forest lands. The Ministry of Agriculture is
involved in regulation of agricultural (former kolkhoz) forests. The State Department of Protected Areas,
Natural Reserves and Hunting manages forests legally designated under protection regimes. The Mountain
Forest Research Institute of the Georgian Academy of Sciences is a key contributor to program
development and policy setting in the sector. Streamlining of functions of these various agencies acting in
the forest sector is one of the Government priorities and will be supported by the project.
- 17 -



The SFD, with a total staff of 2,637, including 1,01 7 professional staff and 512 technicians (one for every
830 ha of forests), continues to have strong technical experience in managing forests for recreation and
watershed protection, as well as in pest management and afforestation/reforestation. This expertise has
been outdated lately because of lack of reinvestment in human capital in the sector over the last 1 0 years.
SFD has significantly less experience in market-based economic management of forests, in
landscape-ecological approach to forest planning, and in public relations and extension services for
communities. This would be provided through training programs financed by the project. Additional
training will be provided by complementary technical assistance programs financed by WWF and possibly
SIDA and others. Forestry staff in the district offices are competent. However, staff morale is very low,
because salaries have not been paid for many months and no funding is available for basic forestry
operations and facilities. The project would support rationalization of the district office network and
strengthen the operating capacity of the realigned forest districts.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The State Forestry Department (SFD), with 48 district offices across the country and a staff of 50 in the
central office in Tbilisi, is the principal executing agency responsible for overall Project implementation
and coordination and monitoring of its technical aspects. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for
monitoring of the financial aspects of the Credit. The Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural
Resources (MEPNR) is responsible for the monitoring of the Projecfs environmental aspects. All three
agencies participate in the work of the inter-agency Supervisory Board established by the President's decree
for the Project's strategic oversight and interagency coordination.
4.2 Project management:
The project management unit (Forest Sector Development Center, or FSDC) has been established by
Presidential decree and reports to SFD and the Ministry of Finance. FSDC is now fully staffed, and its
key staff have practical experience in project management, which was strengthened during project
preparation with technical assistance and training provided by EU/Tacis. FSDC is currently administering
the US $0.99 million PPF advance. The project will provide further training to FSDC staff in project
management skills.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement management capacity of FSDC is currently low, and an action plan has been developed by
Bank procurement staff to gradually build this capacity to the required level. The project procurement plan
addresses this issue by establishing conservative prior-review thresholds and frequent (every 6 months)
procurement supervision missions (see Annex 6 for details).
4.4 Financial management issues:
A review of financial management arrangements in the FSDC handling the Project has been undertaken to:
(a) assess the Project's capacity and readiness for implementation; (b) review the presence of the necessary
elements for sound Project financial management system such as intemal controls, Project accounting,
Project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the
financial management system.
The review demonstrated that the Financial Management System including accounting, controls, auditing
and reporting is adequate and satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
Action Plan that has been now completed (see Annex 6) was aimed at further strengthening the financial
management system, rather than at ensuring the compliance with the minimum FM requirements.
- 18-



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and ETP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project's enviromnental assessment (EA) and management plan (EMP) were commissioned in the form
of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment, as the project is designed to have a sectoral impact. The main
findings and recommendations of the EA were taken into consideration during project design and are
reflected in the project components. The results of the EA and EMP are summarized below and in Annex
12. The full EA report is available in the project files.
The EA concludes that the proposed project will improve overall environmental management of Georgia's
forests by: (a) introducing the right incentives for long term investment and sustainable use of forest
resources and reducing illegal felling and smuggling of timber; (b) developing technically sound and
participatory methods of forest management planning based on a technically up-to-date and reliable
information base, deploying Forest Management Information Systems and GIS technology; (c)
demonstrating advanced and environmentally less damaging equipment for harvesting, including skyline
cable lines designed for mountai]i terrain; (d) rehabilitating and constructing forest roads in a selected zone
of the Central Caucasus for maximizing economic benefits and reducing environmental damage caused by
long skidding distances, which create erosion channels; and (e) testing and promulgating environmentally
sound construction practices and technologies. Other environmental benefits of the project would include
reduced erosion and improved hydrological regimes of reforested areas and an increase in atmospheric
carbon sequestration resulting from afforestation activities of degraded slopes.
No serious negative impacts of the project were identified. Minor potential impacts might include damage
from misuse of harvesting and transportation equipment at demonstration and training sites. This risk
would be addressed by proper design and selection of sites for demonstration activities which will be based
on the completed forest managernent plans and subject to a site-specific environmental review and permit.
A similar minor risk is associated with erosion caused by misuse of equipment during limited forest road
rehabilitation and construction. This risk would be addressed by limiting road activities only to appropriate
areas delineated by the overall landscape-based forest management plan. Additionally, road contractors
would have to comply with improved road standards. Selection of road sites would also be subject to
site-specific environmental review and permit.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP that is included in the Project Imnplementation Plan (PIP) provides for a phased screening and
mitigation of the above-mentioned project risks. All project activities were categorized according to
expected environmental impact. Those activities that bear even small potential risks (such as the ones
listed above) will be subject to site-specific environmental impact assessments (EIAs) with proper public
consultations in accordance with the Bank's safeguards policies. The MEPNR has confirmed and detailed
this proposed phased approach to site-specific ELAs in its letter dated May 21, 2001, which was
subsequently reflected in the PIP. The negotiated Credit Agreement (Schedule 4) stipulates that during
project execution site-specific ElAs, satisfactory to the Bank, will be prepared and environmental perrmits
issued in accordance with such EIAs. Guidelines have been prepared for the different project activities
(details are provided in Annex 12). Environmental aspects of project implementation would be monitored
by the MEPNR in accordance with the Georgian environmental legislation and as stipulated in the Credit
Agreement. Risks to cultural property are not anticipated, since production forests are not generally
located in or near cultural heritage sites. If there any such sites are identified during the forest landscape
planning process (chance finds), they would be assessed and in accordance with OPN 11.03, appropriate
measures would be designed and implemented to ensure that there is no damage to cultural property.
- 19 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 27, 2001
The final EA report was submitted by the Borrower to the Bank upon completion of public consultations in
the project areas in the Central Caucasus and in Tbilisi (May-June 2001). The EA was released in Georgia
on May 18, 2001, in both Georgian and English. Written comments subsequently received from the public
are attached to the final report, which was submitted to the InfoShop on July 11, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmnent mnanagement plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders were consulted at the screening and draft TOR phase (a public meeting was held in Tbilisi on
May 5, 2000). Public review and discussion of the final draft report was carried out through dissemination
of the report and a series of public meetings in Tbilisi and in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (Oni,
Ambrolauri). The consulted groups included: Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural
Resources, Georgia Greens-Friends of Earth, Green Altemative, NACRES, Georgia Protected Areas
Programme, WWF-Georgia, Transparency Intemational-Georgia, Anticorruption Bureau of Georgia,
Georgian Academy of Sciences, Georgian Agricultural Academy, Tbilisi State University, district
authorities and the local population in the Central Caucasus (Oni and Amnbrolauri Districts).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Guidelines have been prepared for the different project activities. Implementation would be monitored by
district staff of the Ministry of Environment.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A local social research firm carried out a full Social Assessment (SA) under the direction of a World Bank
senior social scientist. Annex 11 provides a summary of the SA methodology, main findings, and
implications for project design and implementation. The following summarizes the main social issues and
expected social development outcomes.
Socioeconomic Conditions. The three distinct groups in the project region are: the poorest households
(those who cannot afford to purchase either food or clothing (25% of households that spend 9-55
lari/month); the "middle poor" who can afford to buy food but not clothing (25% that spend 55-145
lari/month); and the "least poor" who can afford with difficulty to buy both food and clothes (50 % that
spend 145-235 lari/month). Almost all residents produce their own vegetables, fruits and meat from their
own or government-owned land. Although the forest is not an important source of cash income to
households in Oni, Ambrolauri, Tsageri, or Lentekhi, two thirds of the population cut wood for heating and
cooking.
Stakeholders and Conflicts. The four main groups of stakeholders that will affect project design and
implementation are: the general population, whose degree of poverty largely determines the need to cut
wood for heating and cooking needs; the NGO community, dominated by environmental organizations;
national forest management agencies; and forest management districts. The main conflicts among
stakeholders will center on enforcement of existing laws and the extent to which the Govemment supports
business interests over preservation.
- 20 -



Main Social Development Issues. The design of the project takes into account the following issues: (a)
poverty, which is the root cause of forest degradation - by generating local employinent in forest works and
providing sustainable supply of affordable fuelwood and forage through community forest programs; (b)
weak government organization and inaction - by strengthening reorganized forest management entities and
putting in place a new performance based incentive system; (c) inadequate public participation in
government policy making - by supporting participatory techniques of policy and standards development
and involvement of conmuunities in forest management planning; (d) deficient communication with the
public and lack of awareness of forest-related laws, which contribute to illegal wood cutting - by developing
and implementing a targeted public awareness program; and (e) deficiencies in civil society which isolate the
population from the Government and forest management activities - by establishing joint govemment/NGO
work and training in independent forest monitoring and by supporting local initiatives and feedback
('hotline') through the public awareness program.
Component I supports the government by implementing a forestry institutional and financial reorganization
plan and holding public discussions on a National Forest Policy, all of which will strengthen policy
implementation. It also supports public discussions of draft regulations to help ensure that the new law is
enforceable and build public ownership and commitment to the law. Component 1 also includes a public
awareness program to inform the public at the national and local levels about the importance and values of
forests and sustainable forest management through a variety of media, including TV spots, booklets and
annual workshops. NGOs will play an active role in this effort. Component 2 supports public awareness of
the need for sustainable forest management and participatory planning for the management of local and
community forests and demonstrates more sustainable harvesting systems. Component 3 supports improved
soil fertility and flood protection through afforestation and shelterbelts.
Social Outcomes. The social outcomes that can be expected from the project include: increased access to
fuelwood through improved foresit management, greater public awareness of the need to protect lorest
resources, increased public participation in sustainable forest management, and better compliance with
forestry laws and regulations. Proposed monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 11. During the
project implementation, these indicators can be monitored through social surveys, community consultations
and periodic SAs.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation activities involved all key stakeholders: national, regional and local level government
authorities; NGOs; scientists and academics; research institutes; local communities to discuss forestry
management; and households in affected communities. Project-related workshops were carried out to
solicit stakeholder support and input.
The SA involved the participation of key stakeholders through a household survey, in-depth interviews, and
focus group discussions (Annex II presents a list of stakeholders that were consulted or asked to
participate in either the SA or project workshops during project preparation). The quantitative household
survey was administered to 600 households in Racha, Svaneti and Lechkhumi. In-depth semi-structured
interviews were conducted with 75 individuals with interests and/or responsibilities related to Georgian
forests, including: representatives of the State Forestry Department and other relevant government
agencies, academic institutions, environmental NGOs, scientific community, commercial and industrial
interests, as well as foresters and forest protectors. The interviews were designed to gain insight into forest
conditions and the reality of working with Georgian forests as well as to identify and examine what these
stakeholders view as significant issues and problems. The SA Team also carried out 10 focus group
discussions in Oni and Tsageri in September 1999, with two focus groups composed entirely of women,
two of men, and four - both of mmn and women of various ages and professions.
- 21 -



The SA was published in both Georgian and English, and discussed at a public workshop in Tbilisi in July
2000. The final project design incorporates the findings of the SA and the active participation and
feedback of local communities, local farmers, households, NGOs, and local businesses as well as
government institutions at all levels with forest management responsibilities and interests.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project's Supervisory Board is chaired by a member of the Parliament of Georgia and is comprised of
officials of key interested ministries and presidential administration, with participation of the academic and
NGO community. During project preparation, representatives of six NGOs were consulted: Friends of the
Earth, Green Movement of Georgia (two interviews), NACRES, Center for Conservation of Species (two
interviews), and WWF-Georgia (two interviews). These NGOs also have been included in all national and
local level workshops held during project preparation. During implementation, these and other civil society
organizations will play an active role in the preparation and public discussions on the National Forest
Policy and Strategy, the draft law "On Privatization of State Forests in Georgia", and new regulations to
support the implementation of the 1999 Forest Code. They also will have a role in informing the public
about the importance and values of forests and sustainable forest management as well as in project
monitoring.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project includes support for the forestry officials to establish training, educational and public
awareness programs in integrated forest management for households. Through the project, local forestry
departments as well as NGOs and local groups will provide guidance to villages and communities for
establishing public forest management clubs or organizations, the purpose of which is to provide incentives
to members for helping forestry department officials and NGOs manage forest resources. These groups will
help ensure that local residents and other relevant stakeholders convene for the purpose of consultation on
proposed forestry legislation and other forestry management issues. In addition, national forestry
departments and local village leaders will establish a hotline for citizens to anonymously and conveniently
report forest code violations and instances of official corruption.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project firances social surveys and periodic social assessments to monitor social development
outcomes identified during project preparation. Annex 11 presents a list of social development outcomes
and indicators as well as a plan for social monitoring and evaluation. These indicators will be monitored
through social surveys, in-depth interviews with representatives of mnain stakeholder groups, and
community consultations.
- 22 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, IHP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resefflement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project would have a positive environmental impact by supporting sustainable forest management
practices. The results of the EA are summarized above.
The project would not involve conversion of natural habitats; the landscape approach to forest management
planning being supported would improve conservation of fragile ecosystems compared with present
techniques.
The project supports a sector-wide approach to improve forest management, institutions and policies and is
compliant with OP 4.36.
The project supports forest protection through improved monitoring and biological control of forest pests.
It does not envisage purchase of pesticides. If a pest outbreak does occur requiring use of pesticides, a Pest
Management Plan including an authorized list of pesticides will be prepared in accordance with OP 4.09
before pesticides are procured.
F. Sustalnability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project does not involve significantly increased recurrent cost financing and does not involve new staff
recruitment. Incremental recumrnt costs are estimated at US$0.62 million over the project period (or on
average about US$103,000 per annum). These compare with the present annual budget allocation to SFD
of US$I million per annum. As indicated above the project should generate substantially increased
revenues for the Treasury by improving tax collection from forest management activities. The project
would be implemented by existing institutions with management support from FSDC. Capacity building of
SFD during implementation would ensure that project activities will continue after Bank support ends.
Forest district offices would also be strengthened with the assistance of project activities. Social
sustainability should be assured by the involvement of a range of stakeholders and local communities in
project implementation.
- 23 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1.    Difficulty in implementing           S         Project includes a broad measure of political
improved forest management financing                 support; there would be inter-ministerial
regime does not lead to increased forest             participation in supervision
revenues for the Treasury.
2.    Illegal logging levels do not         S        Project includes improved regulations and
decline.                                             enforcement mechanisms as well as public
awareness and community-based forest
management to reduce incentive for illegal
logging.
3.    Inter-agency cooperation             S         Project includes comrnon inter-agency
especially between Forest and                        supervisory committee.
Environment is difficult.
From Components to Outputs
1. Delays in counterpart fumding.          H         Counterpart funding requirements for all
projects are prepared annually and closely
monitored by the Bank's Tbilisi office.
2. Delays in agreement at local level on   M         The project includes measures to involve local
improved forest management plans.                    stakeholders in the planning process.
3. Delays in procurement.                  M         FSDC staff include trained procurement
specialists.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main controversial aspect is that the revised approach to forest management in Georgia
institutionalizes a forest management regime in which some commercial harvesting is the normal practice.
Before 1960, forests were extensively managed for harvesting. Since then, harvesting in principle focused
on sanitary cuts which have in recent decade become a loophole for poorly regulated commercial cut. The
revised sustainable management approach has been broadly accepted by the NGO community, the
Georgian public and technocrats as the appropriate management regime for Georgian forests to contribute
to economic growth as well as environmental protection. Forest management combining conservation with
sustainable use is the norm in most European "forest-rich" countries. Nevertheless the new approach has
to be managed very carefully, both at a technical level to ensure that sustainable forest management is
respected, and at a "perception" level. The project addresses this "perception risk" through supporting a
landscape-ecological approach to forest management planning, and a high degree of transparency in the
planning and utilization process, together with improved regulations. The process will be carefully
monitored through implementation.
- 24 -



G. Main Credit Conditioins
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower will have opened the Project Account in Lari and deposited into said Account an initial
amount equivalent to $50,000 (Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Board Presentation (all completed):
(i) the Policy Letter outlining the reform agenda and plan for improving govemance and curbing
corruption and illegal actividies in the forest sector, satisfactory to IDA, has been signed by the State
Minister of the Borrower and a signed copy provided to IDA on May 16, 2002 (see Annex 13);
(ii) the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, has advised IDA of its approval of the negotiated
documents on May 15, 2002;
(iii) the Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), satisfactory to IDA, have
been approved by the FSDC' Supervisory Board on May 15, 2002 and communicated to IDA on May
16, 2002;
(iv) the outstanding steps o:F the Action Plan regarding the Project's operational financial management
system, satisfactory to IDA, have been completed and their status communicated to IDA on May 16,
2002 (see Annex 6).
Condition of Disbursement:
No withdrawals shall be made il respect of the program of reforestation and afforestation in the Priority
Areas (expenditure category 1(b) - "Works for Part C.2 of the Project"), until the Borrower has approved
mechanisms for sustainable provision of funding for public forest management for afforestation and
reforestation (paragraph 3(a) of ;Schedule I to the Credit Agreement; see also PAD Section C.2).
H. Readiness for Implernentation
0I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[]4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
II 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Andrey V. Kushlin                 Laura Tuck                        Judy M. O'Connor
Team Leader                       Sector Director                   Country Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives    _      Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sound strategies and      For forest areas: FMIS and  Sustainable natural resource
management plans and public statistics from the SFD.  management contributes to
To achieve sustainable natural investment programs in place                     poverty reduction
resource management        for sectors managing natural  For biodiversity: biodiversity
resources                 information and monitoring  Continued Govemment
system                    support for market-based
reform
To diversify and deepen   Increased GDP              National country reports and  Government provides
sources of growth (including                         economic statistics.       enabling environment for
private sector development  Increased private sector                            increased private sector
inves tment                                          investment
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To establish sound forest  - Increase in public forest  State budget documents and  Government commitment to
management systems which   revenues per unit of area from  economic statistics  sustainable forest
would maximize the        improved forest monitoring,                           management
contribution of Georgia's  fee collection mechanisms  Annual reports of SFD     Private forest operators able to
forests to economic        and niore efficient resource                         comply with new forest
development and rural poverty use in! project areas;  Surveys of rural population in standards
reduction on an environ-                             project areas
mentally sustainable basis.
- Increase in area covered by  Public awareness surveys  Increase in rural incomes
forest inventory carried out in                      reduces dependency on
accor(lance with improved                            illegally harvested wood
methodology and management
plans and managed by properly                        Adequate funding for forest
trained and equipped forest                          management
management units;
- Decrease in area of degraded
lands t:hrough priority
affore.station, reforestation and
protection programs for the
shelteibelts, eroded areas and
coppice forests;
- Improved affordability of
fuelwood for local population
and increase of their revenues
through improved forest
management programs; and
- Increase in public support for
sustairtable forest management
and participation of civil
society in forest management
and monitoring.
-27 -



Key PerforTance       T Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Legal, institutional and  1.1 Draft laws on        Official gazette           Parliarnent will approve draft
regulatory mechanisms      privatization of forests and                          laws and strategies
strengthened to pennit     community forest regulations  Staff Assessment and
implementation of the Forest  prepared                Training Plan              Vested interests do not
Code and support sustainable                                                    interfere with the reform
forest management.         1.2 Increase in percentage of Text books, curriculum  process
forest resource allocated for
use through auctions and   Public surveys and interviews Lack of public funding of SFD
competitive sales                                     has been resolved
1.3 Common measuring                                  Collaboration between SFD
system for timber export used                         and Academy of Sciences
by customs and foresters.                             (responsible for research) has
been improved
1.4 National forest standards
and monitoring / certification                        Increased public support
procedures established                                results in more sustainable
forest utilization
1.5 New/improved National
Forestry Policy and Strategy
officially approved
1.6 SFD has clear mandates
of its normative, regulatory
and forest management
responsibilities
1.7 Recommendations for
financing mechanisms for
sustainable support to SFD
and other institutions passed
in Parliament
1.8 SFD staff trained in
improved forest management
and participatory techniques
1.9 University forestry
students trained in improved
forest management
1.10 Public awareness
(particularly of decision
makers) about the economic
and envirorunental
importance of the forests has
increased.
2. Forest planning and     2.1 Implementation of      Forest inventory, land-use and Improved forest inventory and
- 28 -



management improved in    improved forest management forest management plans   management planning results
Pilot Area                plans using landscape                                in improved forestry practices.
planning approaches on    FIMS
250,000 ha (9% of Georgia's                          Activities c.m be replicated
forested area);           Project progress reports  outside of lab zone.
2.2 FMIS established and                            Modem forestry operation
used to develop new forest                          techniques are affordable for
management plans                                    private sector and are adopted
2.3 100 km of forest road                            Support for non-timber forest
rehabilitated and 75 km of                          products benefits local
road constructed in                                 communities
accordance with new
standards and forest                                Communities managing
management plans.                                    forests gain benefits from
forests
2.4 Increase in number of
forest and road workers
certified in environmental
techniques and standards of
forest utilization.
2.5. Pilot programs in
fuelwooi supply and
community forest
management established and
carried out in project area.
3. Forest protection and  3.1 Inciease in forest area  SFD annual statistics   Mobile inspectorate will deter
inspection services       covered by effective systems                         illegal harvesting activities
strengthened and forest cover, of forest protection from pests, Forest management plans
especially in degraded areas,  fires and illegal activities.                   Reforestation program will be
improved and increased.                                                        supported by local
3.2 Seed center and nursery                         communities
rehabilitated and providing
seedlings for afforestation
program
3.3 Afforestation of 3,100 ha
and reforestation of 5,700 ha
3.4 Increase in number of
rural resiidents employed
through local contracts
- 29 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy 1
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
Improve forest sector     US$3.87 million           Progress reports;        Adequate and timely
govemance through national                          Disbursement reports;    Govemment counterpart
regulatory, financial and                           Supervision reports; Site  financing
institutional reforms                               visits; PMRs;
Commitment of Government
Improve forest planning and  US$5.54 million                                 and non-govemmental actors
management in Central                                                        to cross sectoral planning
Caucasus pilot area
Forest protection and     US$8.84 million
reforestation in selected
priority areas
Project management and    US$2.10 million
monitoring
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Objective
1.     Following ten years since Independence, the present situation in the forest sector of Georgia is
characterized by: (i) profound stagnation and demonetization of rural economies and livelihoods with
increased dependence on forest products for subsistence; (ii) serious degradation of public sector capacity
for adequate forest management; (iii) acute need to realize econornic potential of a rapidly developing
private sector; (iv) increased public awareness of forest environmental issues; and (v) politically heated
drive against corruption in genteral and illegal activities in forestry in particular. In response to these
challenges, the Govenunent oi Georgia has requested World Bank assistance for a Forests Development
Project to establish soundforest management systems that maximize the contribution of Georgia 'sforests
to economic development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis.
2.     The project will achieve these objectives in the following ways. It will contribute to general
economic growth and improve forest sector governance by putting in place appropriate legal and
institutional frameworks, fiscal incentives, and training for more effective and transparent public
management of forest resources and their more efficient, multipurpose utilization by a competitive private
sector (which will reduce comipt and illegal activities and increase financial contribution of the forest
sector). The project will significantly increase environmental sustainability of Georgian forests by
introducing landscape-ecological methods of forest management planning (jointly with the GEF-funded
Protected Areas Development Project); by training and certifying forest users in better environmental
standards of forest utilization and road construction; by improving protection of forests from pests, fires
and illegal activities; by supporting reforestation and afforestation of critically degraded habitats; and by
increasing overall public awareness of the forest environmental issues and public involvement in forest
planning and monitoring. The project will promote rural development and poverty reduction in and near
the forested areas by generating rural employment through forest inventory and reforestation/afforestation
programs; and by launching ccmmunity forest management schemes and fuelwood supply activities. The
policy reforms supported by the project would also increase overall employment in the domestic forest
sector industries.
3.    Impact indicators of project success include: (a) improved governance and accountability of the
forest sector evidenced by an increase in unit forest revenues from improved forest monitoring, market rent
collection mechanisms and more efficient resource use in project areas; (b) significant strengthening of the
country's forest conservation aild management system; and (c) increase in the income of rural populations
from forest sector activities in project areas. Indicators of project outputs are listed in the project logframe
(see Annex 1).
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.11 million
Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory. Financial and Institutional
Reforms
4.     Background. To enable proper contribution of the forest sector to the national economy, Georgia
has begun to move towards a market-driven forest economy. At the same time, the need to maintain
environmental and social functions of forests continue to increase. The Georgian authorities have, in
collaboration with a range of stakeholders, prepared and adopted a new Forest Code (1999). Its major
- 31 -



innovations include: (1) defining the principles of protection, sustainable development, and management of
the forests of Georgia on the basis of the 1992 Rio Declaration (i.e. proclaiming focus on multiple use of
forests and its environmental, economic, social, and cultural dimensions); and (2) allowing for multiple
forns of forest ownership (state, municipal/community, church, and private). The Code also allows for
long-term lease of forests and privatization of forest management activities. Delineation of regulatory and
oversight responsibilities between the State Forestry Department and the Ministry of Environment has been
improved. However, further work is needed to make the Code operational and transparent. Many of its
important regulatory provisions are not yet effectively applied (due to lack of implementing regulations and
the public finance crisis).
5.     Furthermore, critical issues of forest sector development - such as improved sector governance and
accountability for sustainable revenue generation and resource management, institutional rationalization,
private sector participation - remain to be addressed. Forest management (including forest assessment,
inventory, protection, and multiple-purpose use planning) must be financed adequately if the Govemment
wishes to maximize the value of forests to Georgia's people and economy. The present financing system,
under which the majority of revenues from timber harvesting and transport are allocated through the
Treasury system to local authorities, does not provide an adequate budget for the "public good" aspects of
forest management. Monitoring and control of timber harvests is inadequate, because of inadequate
funding. Additionally, the number of forest districts (presently 48) needs to be rationalized. The
Government has periodically been under pressure to reintroduce temporary bans on commercial forest
harvesting and on log exports (lifted with enactment of the Forest Code in 1999) to protect the forests or
local industries.
6.    In May 2002, the Government of Georgia has approved the "Main Principles of Government
Policy for Georgia's Forest Sector Development in 2002-2010", which include adoption of effective control
of the origin of timber, move to market-based forest resource pricing, introduction of competitive forms of
resource sales (auctions and tenders), reinvestrnent of part of forest revenues into improved forest
management (see Annex 13). In 2001, important initial steps were already taken to elaborate this expanded
reform agenda and start addressing the root causes of illegal and corrupt activities in the sector. A system
of better wood origin control was instituted and cooperation between the SFD and the Customs Department
improved; reference prices for timber were increased; a package of legal amendments to the Forest, Tax
and Budget Laws (developed by the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade jointly with SFD) was
approved by Government and submitted for parliamentary approval to allow refinancing of part of forest
revenues back into forest sector. A comprehensive audit of the SFD and its field operations was
undertaken by the Chamber of Control. The project as a whole, and Component I in particular, will
provide targeted support to these Government efforts in 'fine-tuning' and implementing the reform program
nationwide over a 4-5 year period.
7.     Obiective and expected results. The main objective of this component is to improve governance
and increase economic and financial contribution of the forest sector to Georgian society by putting in place
an improved legal, financial and institutional framework, with adequate human resources and facilities for
more effective public management of forest resources and their more efficient, multipurpose utilization.
The component will have nationwide coverage. Its activities will be carried out primarily in the first three
years of the project, during which there will be a critical need to support finalization and implementation of
the Govemment's forest sector reform agenda. The component's expected results are:
* a completed legal, regulatory and policy framework for long-term forest sector development;
* a developed National Forest Program that includes a forest policy and strategy and standards for
- 32 -



forest activities;
* a rationalized financial and institutional framework for forest management;
*   a strengthened system of institutions and their human resources for forest management and
monitoring;
*   an increased public participation in sustainable forest management and monitoring.
These expected results are addiessed in more detail in the following subsections.
Improve Legal, Regulatory and Policy Framework (US$0.61 million)
8.     The project will finance international and local technical assistance to discuss, finalize and
disseminate subsidiary laws and implementing regulations under the 1999 Forest Code. This work was
started during project preparation and will be completed in the first year. International expertise will be
provided to support preparation of the draft law on privatization of state forests (as required by Article
116-a of the Forest Code). This will be carried out starting from the second year, after thorough
stakeholder consultations and consideration of all environmental, socio-cultural and economic factors.
Assistance will also be providel to develop regulations on local (community) forests. This work will be
done in close collaboration witfl the Communal Forestry Pilot Project supported by the German and French
development agencies. In the 2nd year, international legal assistance will be provided to prepare
regulations for independently verifiable forest sector monitoring (including wood flow control and forest
audits) and to ensure proper harmonization of forest laws and policies with other sectoral laws, such as
environmental, land, tax and budget laws. The project will also support stakeholder discussions of new
regulations, their publication in the official gazette, translation, printing and dissemination.
9.     The project will also help implement changes in the financial and economic regulations related to
the forest sector, especially with regard to market-based mechanisms for proper valuation, pricing and sales
of forest resources and guaranteed refinancing of public forest management costs. The development of a
methodology for total economic valuation (TEV) of forest resources was started with Bank support during
project preparation. In the I st yrear of the project, international assistance will be provided to complete this
TEV methodology and use it to develop new techniques for forest resource pricing in Georgia. The results
of this work will be discussed with stakeholders, disseminated and incorporated into the new forest
management planning tools to be supported by Component 2.
10.   In support of the Government reform agenda, the project will finance international technical
assistance to develop and test a new system offorest auctions, featuring market-based pricing above the
minimum cost of forest resource management ("floor price") and separation of timber sales from forest
harvesting for duly certified operators. A firm with international experience in forest marketing, sales and
audits will be hired to develop and operate the system on behalf of the Government, during a one-year test
period. Specialized legal assistance will be provided to draft interim auction regulations for the
experimental phase and, upon completion of the experiment, revise and adjust these regulations for further
use. The Govenmment will then make a decision on the specifics of further development of forest auctions,
including whether they should be conducted by a government agency or an eligible private company.
11.    The early start of these TEV and auction development activities will provide necessary empirical
data that should help the Goveniment make a final decision on the most appropriate financial mechanism
for guaranteed reinvestment of forest revenues into forest management. The credit agreement will stipulate
a date - 12 months after credit effectiveness - by which the decision will have to be made, because the
sustainability of a major part of project investments in reforestation and afforestation (supported under
- 33 -



Component 3) will depend on long-term availability of public financing for these purposes. The legal
agreement will include a condition of disbursement for reforestation and afforestation activities.
Develop National Forest Program, Standards and Certification (US$0.30 million)
12.    The new National Forest Program (NFP) will be a high-level political document that will lay out
the country's medium- and long-term goals regarding its forests and serve as a foundation for sustainable
growth of the forest sector. Its development will comply with the latest recommendations of the United
Nations Fornm on Forests (UNFF) and follow a broad participatory process engaging key stakeholders.
The project will finance: (a) benchmarking against best international practice, (b) design and
implementation of a participatory process to elaborate and agree on a national forest policy and strategy,
(c) establishment of national working groups, (d) study tours to selected ECAIOECD countries to facilitate
development of the NFP, and (e) publication of the NFP.
13.    As a key tool in implementation of the NFP, the project will support development of national
standards inforest management and utilization. This work will be carried out by multi-stakeholder
national working groups at an early phase of the project (2001-2002). Early availability of these new,
environmentally sound standards is required for successful implementation of the new forest auctioning
system (see above), because harvesting operators will have to be certified for compliance with the new
national forest standards. Project activities on the ground - including forest planning and demonstration
systems in Component 2 and forest protection and reforestation in Component 3 - will help test and
improve these new standards and methods of their compliance monitoring.
14.    The project will finance international technical assistance to develop and facilitate a participatory
process for drafting national standards. This process will include: (a) elaboration and summary of best
forest practice (including environmnentally safe forest harvesting and forest road improvement/maintenance
standards); (b) assistance to working groups to draft national standards and procedures for monitoring,
verification/certification and auditing of compliance with these standards; and (c) public review,
finalization and publication of the standards and procedures. The work on the national forest standards and
forest verification/certification procedures is consistent with one of the target priorities of the World
Bank-WWF Global Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use and, as such, will receive
support from the Alliance and be carried out in close cooperation with the WWF (through its Georgian
office) and other interested organizations.
Strengthen Institutions and Human Resourcesfor Improved Forest Management and Monitoring
(US$2.79 million)
15.    The project will support development and implementation of a detailed program to strengthen the
financial and institutional capacity of the Georgian forest sector. International and local technical
assistance will be provided to develop specific recommendations regarding realignment of finctional
responsibilities within the SFD and identification of corresponding human resource requirements in its
central and field offices; streamlining coordination between SFD and other govenmment agencies and
private companies dealing with forest sector; establishing systems of independently verifiable forest sector
monitoring (wood origin control, forest land-use surveillance, spot audits of compliance with national
standards and forest management plans); rationalization of SFD territorial network of field offices; and
overall improvement of cost-effectiveness and efficiency of public forest management operations. This
work will be carried out in the 1st year of the project, in close coordination with legal and regulatory work
described above.
- 34 -



16.    Further to completion of the institutional rationalization plan in the I st year, the project will
support key elements of its implementation in the 2nd through 5th years. This will include urgent provision
of basic rehabilitation and logistical support to forest management facilities in the SFD central office and
in the reorganized forest districts to ensure their minimum adequate operational and monitoring capacity.
In parallel, a comprehensiveforest sector human resources development program will be developed in the
I st and 2nd years and implemented in the 3rd through 5th years. This program will address immediate
needs of professional development and retraining of existing forest management staff in the SFD and other
governmental agencies, as identified by the rationalization plan mentioned above. It will also redesign and
launch an improved system of graduate forest education to facilitate influx of younger, well educated
personnel into forest management and utilization. The program will be carried out on the basis of existing
and improved facilities of the G.-orgian Agrarian and Technological Universities and their field branches
across the country. The project will support rehabilitation and equipment for these facilities, including
possibilities for distance learning. Students participating in this program will undertake practical training
at the demonstration and reforestation sites supported by the project.
17.    The project will finance: (a) international and national technical assistance to design and help
implement an institutional rationalization plan and human resources development program; (b) civil works
and office and computer equipment for rehabilitation and strengthening of reorganized forest management
facilities; and (c) training of SFI) and other relevant staff in economics, management and public
administration. In relation to university training, the project will specifically finance: (i) revision and
development of university curricula to align with identified needs including sustainable forest management
and changing operating enviromnents, (ii) design and delivery of field based practical training programs,
(iii) development of training capacity through a program for trainers, (iv) equipment for improved training
capacity, and (v) preparation and publication of training material.
Build Public Support for Sustainable Forest Management (US$0.41 million)
18.    The component will be complemented with development and implementation of a comp:rehensive
public awareness and participation program. The project will finance technical assistance and training to
develop a national public awareness strategy and action plan that identifies the main issues and target
audiences for increasing public support for sustainable forest management, and implementation of the
action plan, including provision of equipment; TV, newspaper and other mass media campaigns;
workshops and dissemination. A program of mass publications will be financed to improve public
knowledge and understanding oi forestry and related laws and regulations. Training will be provided to
SFD staff to strengthen the capacity of forest managers at the center and in the field offices in working
effectively with local communities, schools, nongovernmental organizations, and the media to promote
knowledge of sustainable forest management. Efforts will be targeted at the local level, through school
programs and activities with con2munity "friends of forest" associations, to build civil society capacity for
involvement in sustainable foresi: management and will include establishing public information rooms in the
districts and 'hotlines' (mailboxes etc.) for facilitating feedback from rural areas. Field work will be
specifically piloted in the geogrphic areas of project activities (Central Caucasus and Priority
Reforestation Areas near Tbilisi).
19.    These activities will be (arried out in close collaboration with other donors and nongovernmental
partnerships, such as the Forest ][ntegrity Network (FIN) supported by Transparency International and
Global Forest Watch, that aim to promote independent forest monitoring capacity within the Georgian civil
society. The Anticorruption Bureau of Georgia has participated in the FIN planning meeting in November
2001 in Washington DC and agreed to coordinate these initiatives at the national level and work closely
with the Government agencies, NGOs and the World Bank. An independent study will be carried out with
- 35 -



donor support in the first half of 2002 to help establish a baseline for such monitoring.
Project Component 2 - US$6.05 million
ImRrove Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot Area
20.'   Background. Current forest inventories and management plans suffer from a number of
weaknesses:
*  There is a backlog of 1.5 million ha of forest without updated management plans. Under current
forest policy, inventory and forest management plans are to be updated every 10 years, which will
indicate an annual program of about 300,000 ha. However, due to chronic under funding during
the past decade, only about 150,000 ha have been updated each year, leaving half of Georgia's
forests without current management plans.
*  Current techniques for forest inventory and management planning are not based on comprehensive
multiple-use concepts which integrate assessment of forests, local communities and other natural
resources - soil, water, recreational values, etc. This lack of a "multiple use" approach to forest
management planning leads to resource use conflicts between government agencies, and between
these agencies and local residents;
*  Inventory and management planning staff are poorly motivated and generally weak in the skills
needed to ensure that environment, social and economic considerations are reflected in forest
management planning;
*  Field survey instruments and equipment for data compilation, mapping and management plan
preparation are out-of-date and inadequate for the purpose.
21.        The result of not having current, comprehensive forest management plans to guide forest
activities - road development, protection, harvesting, reforestation, etc. - is that ad hoc forest exploitation
activities are common (particularly on accessible forest areas), leading to degradation, and eventual loss, of
forest resources over large areas of the country. Furthermore harvesting techniques are very inefficient and
environmentally damaging, using outdated and uneconomical equipment. Close to 70% of the standing
volume of the country is found on slopes of less than 25 degrees, which requires low impact harvesting
systems, but no such systems are presently available.
22.    To overcome the above deficiencies, the project will focus development efforts on the Central
Caucasus region (defined to include the provinces of Ambrolauri, Lentekhi, Oni, Tsageri, and Mestia),
which is extremely rich in unique forest ecosystems and biodiversity. The project intends to create and
demonstrate best practices in this pilot area, which can later be replicated in other parts of the country. By
applying a multiple-use approach to planning in this region, the project will establish a better knowledge
about the region's rich biodiversity and the functions of its delicate ecosystems. There are already threats
to some of these systems by various claims for industrial utilization of minerals, waters and to a certain
extent the forests. A healthy balance between the two aspects of land use planning, conservation and
production could ensure the maintenance of unique ecosystems as well as a much needed base for economic
development.
23.    Objective and expected outputs. The main objective of the component is to develop an integrated
framework of new, economically sound and environmentally sustainable approaches to forest management
and operations and test its implementation on a pilot basis in one geographical area (the Central Caucasus
- 36 -



Pilot Area comprising 16% of the country's forests). This component will be a 'testing ground' for the
newly developed national forest policies, regulations and standards, and practical lessons learnt from these
pilot activities will be then used for replication of new methods to other parts of the country. The expected
outputs are to:
*  improve concepts and methodology for natural resource inventories for national monitoring as well
as forest management purposes;
*  develop a forest management information systems (FviS) which will enable a sustainable and
economically efficient use of selected forest resources, as well as delegating inimediate
management decisions to district managers;
*  demonstrate, and train forest operators in, harvesting and transport systems which will minimize
environmental damage; and
*  develop community management plans that assist local farmers to obtain maximum benefits of
former kolkhoz forests on a sustainable basis.
Improved Forest Inventory (IJS$1.26 million)
24.    Activities under this sub-component aim to gather relevant information about the natural resources
in a province to improve management of those resources. Activities include:
(a)    Developing Ltndscape-Ecological Composition (LEC) plans (also known as the
"landscape-ecological carcass" in technical literature), which are based on analyzing layers of
geological, geodynamic, biodiversity and forestry information in a GIS system with the purpose to
form homogeneous blocks of landscape. Such blocks are then used to divide the territory of the
Forest Estate into areas where further detailed planning will be carried out with different primary
objectives, including protected area and wildlife management, commercial and community
(fuelwood and grazing) forest management, management for non-wood forest products, etc. The
LEC mapping and planming technique has already been tested during project preparation in the Oni
district (95,000 ha). In 2001, the results of Oni work will be followed up by formal delineation of
planning zones in that district with participation of appropriate central and local authorities. The
planning technique itself will be further refined in 2001-early 2002, jointly with the C;EF Protected
Areas Development Project (PADP) team, in the neighboring Ambrolauri district (72,000 ha) and,
additionally, tested in Sagarejo district (43,000 ha) for the purposes of the Priority Reforestation
Area. The final design of the procedures will be decided after the subsequent inventories have been
carried out in these districts. After completion of design and testing phase, this LEC
mapping/zoning procedure will be applied to larger tenitories, with significant use of remote
sensing and GIS tools, as the necessary first step in the forest inventory task cycle (usually done in
the year preceding the inventory year).
(b)    Implementing Improved Forest Inventories. The project will support inventories
simultaneously at two levels of detail. All forest estate, regardless of planning zone determrined by
LEC, will be covered by low-density sampling plots of "Level 1 " inventory, while, at the samne
time; areas designated largely for commercial and community forest management will be also
covered by "Level 2" inventory aimed at preparation of detailed FMPs. The main differences of
objectives and processes is summarized below:
- 37 -



*   "Level I " Inventory - Establishing National Forest Resource Inventory Database. This work
will consist of collecting information on the forest cover, biodiversity, geology, geodynamnics,
etc. in relatively few permanent measurement plots (2 to 5 plots per 1,000 ha). These field
plots will be distributed according to a LEC-based statistical sampling design, which will
enable estimated parameters to be expressed with a determined precision. The location of these
"Level 1" permanent plots and all collected information will be accumulated in a nation-wide
database, which will be used for monitoring the sustainability of different practices as well as a
base for more detailed planning and research. Where necessary, additional data will be
collected from "Level I" plots to record and analyze information on availability of non-wood
forest products (NWFP). This product will be used to estimate sustainable levels of usage of
NWFP and where they can be found.
* "Level 2" Inventory - Establishing a Forest Management Inventory System. This system will
cover areas which have been identified as being suitable for sustainable forest utilization. The
inventory will consist of dividing the blocks, identified in the LEC, into stands which are
homogeneous as to forest type, age of the forest and the productivity of the land. Within each
stand, parameters (standing volume, species composition, age, stand density, etc.) which are
essential for the management of the forest are estimated, either by taking "Level 2"
(nonpermanent) plots or by ocular estimates. The information gathered in the field is
transferred to Stand Maps, which is the basic map for forest planning, and a Stand Register
describing the parameters for each stand. The information will be stored in a GIS system will
enable the integration of the thematic and geographical information and facilitate map
production.
25.    The information gathered in this sub-component forms the base for further more detailed forest
management planning and land-use surveillance (monitoring) exercises. Planning for forest management
and NWFP will be covered under this project. Other planning products, including protected area
management plans, will be developed under the GEF-financed Protected Areas Development project. For
the sake of efficiency, all information required for "Level 1" and "Level 2" inventories in a given area will
be collected during one field work session.
26.    An important principle in the new inventory procedures is transparency and full participation and
support by the local Government, representatives for local NGO's and the wood based industry. The most
important points of consultation include: (a) agreeing on areas with principal conservation objectives, as
opposed to forest utilization objectives, at the end of the LEC process; and (b) approving the annual harvest
plan of the district, as part of the FMIS (explained below). In order to ensure local participation in the
planning cycle, the project will fund workshops for local stakeholders and identify other opportunities for
local input into the planning cycle.
27.    Inventory activities will be tested first in Oni district and subsequently analyzed. The inventory
methodology will be amended and adjusted accordingly, before the inventory is undertaken in Ambrolauri
district. The methodology will continue to be refined through implementation of inventory activities in
Lentekhi district, after which the system should be considered fully operational and can be replicated on a
nationwide scale. Replication will begin with training of inventory specialists in the new methodology.
The project will finance (during the fifth year) LECs and inventory field work for another five districts
outside the Pilot Area as a part of the dissemination process.
28.    During the first year, Lesoproject, which is presently the only entity capable of carrying out field
- 38 -



inventory work in the region, will be directly contracted to carry out the inventory in Oni district. After this
period, it is estimated that sufficient experience in the new approach will have been formed so that small
private companies can compete for this service. Field and production activities from Year 2 onwards will
therefore be carried out by local companies, which are contracted on a competitive basis for each task.
Forest Management Informatioin System for Improved Forest Management Planning and Monitoring
(US$1.11 million)
29.    The project will finance the development and installation of a nation-wide Forest Management
Information System (FMIS) and training for system operators. The FMIS will be crucial in proividing
decision makers and responsible staff of the SFD a tool for making effective use of the information
gathered during the forest resources inventory. This system will help the managers formulate management
plans and follow-up operations, which will guarantee sustainable behaviors and an efficient use of forest
resources.
30.    The use of the FMIS will be an important change to current practices, in which district managers
must operate according to outdated forest management plans. The consequence is often that district
managers are obliged to use "sanitary cuts" to justify harvesting outside the recommendations of the
management plans. Such "sanitary cuts" are often abused, resulting in a gradual degeneration of the forest
resources. The FMIS will enable district managers to take timely operational decisions, thereby motivating
them to increase productivity and profitability at district level, which is essential for generating incomes in
rural areas. It will also form a critical basis for monitoring and independent auditing of compliance of
forest operators with forest management plans and national forest standards.
31.    The development, installation and training for the FMIS will be financed by the project and
contracted to a company with experience in system design and programming, or a consortium of such
companies. The terms of reference for the system will be developed with the assistance of an expert with
international experience in the design and operation of forest management systems. This expert will also
supervise development of the BUIS, to ensure that all requirements by the system are being considered
during the development phase.
32.    Training abroad, with the aim to make selected SFD staff acquainted with similar systems in other
countries, will also be financed by the project. These persons will later be responsible for liaison between
the SFD staff and the development company, to assure that the system will be developed with proper regard
to the needs of SFD. Financing is also provided for workshops, which will ensure that the users and other
employees of SFD will be fully aware of the capabilities and possibilities of the system.
33.    The project will also fund international and local technical assistance to develop and launch forest
management planning guidelines and assist in management planning. Special emphasis will be given to
incorporating non-wood forest piroducts into management planning and considering the role of SFD in
hunting and sustainable tourism. Funding is available for local workshops, to ensure public participation
in the planning process.
Demonstrate Environmental Forest Harvesdng and Road Operations (US$3.05 million)
34.    An improved planning process will not have a strong impact if forest operations are not improved
simultaneously. Consequently, the project will finance demonstration units for low impact harvesting and
transport systems, to follow up rAew harvesting plans with state of the art harvesting techniques. The
demonstration equipment will lirnit damage to soils and remaining trees, and at the same time be
- 39 -



economically efficient. The demonstration equipment will be financed by the project, and demonstration
activities carried out by SFD. The demonstration unit will include equipment for low impact harvesting in
steep terrain. This unit will have equipment for harvesting and off-road transport with little damage to soils
in gradients of the range 15-35, which encompasses 70% of the volume of Georgia's forests. The
equipment will include: large and medium sized chainsaws with protective gear; a skyline cable system
with 4 ton carrying capacity; a loader to be used at the landing site; a truck with 15-20 ton capacity; and a
service vehicle.
35.    This unit will be used to set up a demonstration area in a part of the Pilot Area which has been
planned according to the new principles of the FMS where harvesting sites and the corresponding road
requirements are planned in a proper manner, expected to be completed by Year 3. Experts with
international experiences will assist SFD in detailed planning of the demonstration areas. The procurement
contracts for the machinery will include training of SFD operators and maintenance personnel. The
operators will be selected to have the capacity to later be able to serve as instructors for training of new
batches of operators from harvesting contractors, which show interest in the system. These instructors will
be responsible for the respective machines during the duration of the project. After an initial period of 2-3
years of demonstration/training, the machines will be leased or sold to interested contractors.
36.    The selected equipment is very much dependent on proper maintenance and availability of spare
parts. For this purpose, the estimated demand for spare parts during a period of three years will be
supplied with the machines at purchase. Each unit will have its own service vehicle, which should be
equipped with the necessary equipment and tools, recommended by the machine suppliers, to cope with
most mechanical problems on site. Mechanics who will operate the service vehicles, will be trained by the
equipment suppliers (included in the purchase contract).
37.   In order to prepare for contractors to purchase new machinery and apply the new methods, the
project will also invest in an initial, limited scope of restoration and construction of main forest roads and
light forest roads, for fuelwood access, to demonstrate compliance with the new forest management plans.
The extent of the road program, to be competitively contracted to qualified private operators, will depend
on the outcome of the FMIS planning in each district, but funding for a minimum requirement (100 km of
rehabilitation and 75 km of construction of main forest roads; 20 km of rehabilitation and 40 km of
construction of light roads) has been reserved in the project budget (about $1.98 million). The roads will
also be designed in accordance with the new national standards. The road design will be contracted
separately, and an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be carried out for each sub-project. In the
long run, responsibilities for contracting forest road rehabilitation and construction across the country will
be bome by the SFD where short-term forest auctions with highest revenue prevail, and by the private
sector where appropriate long-term forest lease arrangements are in place.
Develop and Implement Pilot Community Forestry Programs (US$0.62 million)
38.    This subcomponent will support testing new practical arrangements for community-based forest
activities in the Pilot Area for their further replication across the country. A pilot communityfuelwood
program will be implemented in 2002-2003 in two districts (Oni and Ambrolauri). Several fuelwood
collection contracts will be carried out in these districts by community brigades that would operate under
the supervision of the SFD district offices. The pilot program will be supported by an improved network of
light roads for local access to fuelwood (see previous paragraph). The project would also finance local
technical assistance for the design of this pilot program, population surveys and information dissemination.
Once tested and proved successful, this fuelwood program is expected to be financially sustainable (the
cost of fuelwood access, collection and distribution to population would be fully recovered from
-40 -



incremental revenues from sale; of associated commercial wood) and could be recommended lor replication
in other forest rich districts of the country.
39.   In parallel with technical assistance to draft the regulations on community forestry (funded under
Component 1), the project will provide technical assistance for an expert, with international experience in
community forestry programs, ito develop a pilot community forest management program for Georgia.
The expert will review the early experience of the German (KfW) and French (FFEM) financed conmmunal
forest pilot project, which is expected to be piloted in 2002-2004 over 15,000 ha of forest in ten communes
(sakrebulo) in the support zone of the Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park, and relevant activities in the
region (including the Bank-funded Eastem Anatolia Watershed Project in Turkey).
40.    Following design of the pilot program in the 3rd year, the project will provide assistance to a
limited number of self-selected communes in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area to prepare and implement
participatory communal forest/range/NWFP management plans, whose primary objective will be to ensure
sustainable and affordable supply of fuelwood, fodder and other products to local population. In addition,
the project will support development of necessary extension services and training in local forest, range and
NWFP management. The program should also build on experience under Component 3 to involve local
communities in afforestation arid reforestation activities. Since such communal forestry programs generate
additional local employment and income, self-selection of communes for participation in this activity will
be based mainly on agreements of local administrations to reinvest part of forest revenues collected from
forests to financing the basic running costs of communal forestry activities.
Project Component 3 - USS 8.84' million
Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas
41.    Background. Forest piotection, reforestation and afforestation in Georgia has halted due to a lack
of investment and sustainable financial support. It is characterized today by an environment of:
*  Inadequate regulatory and supervisory framework;
*  Lack of knowledge and training;
*  Uneconomic practices;
*  Poor infrastructure;
*  Outdated systems, practices and technologies;
*  Poor planning and coo01dination;
*  Absence of standards; and
*  Low morale.
42.    Objective and exIectecl results. This component will strengthen, restore and develop nationally,
forest inspection and monitoring, forest protection, seed improvement and nursery systems and practices;
and the establishment of afforestation and reforestation demonstration sites based on economic, social and
environmentally sustainable principles within the 'Priority Zone'. This will be achieved through:
*  strengthening forest protection and inspection services,
* improving seed production and processing,
*  development of nursery facilities and
*  an afforestation and rehabilitation program.
Strengthen Forest Protection and Inspection Services (US$0.84 million)
- 41 -



43.    Forest Inspection. The majority of the supervisory and regulatory functions of the SFD have
eroded significantly since the early 1990s, mainly due to insufficient financing of SFD by the Govenmment.
Since 1990 many of the regulations and legislation adopted by the Govermment for management of state
forests (law "On arranging Forest Use on the Territory of Georgia" dated June 25, 1998) were updated
and/or replaced to reflect new orientations and best practice. The Forest Code of June 22, 1999 provides
the legal basis for the sustainable utilization and management of Georgian forests. However, the
implementation of the Forest Code and supplementary normative acts within the Code yet to be ratified and
adopted are impaired due to the inability of an appropriate dissemination and monitoring system to ensure
their adoption in practice. Existing systems for inspection and monitoring are outdated and inadequate to
ensure full enforcement of the Forest Code and forest practice in general. The public is concemed with
illegal cutting and enforcement of the Forest Code and the capacity of the SFD to supervise and monitor
forest activities.
44.    The project will support activities of the SFD's mobile inspectorate unit to audit and control forest
operations at district level and strengthen enforcement of forest regulations. These activities will be
complemented and strengthened by independent monitoring efforts by various nongovemmental
organizations. The SFD and a number of Georgian NGOs have agreed to coordinate geographically the
initial phase of these activities (9 to 12 months), to maximize mutual learning of various monitoring and
enforcement techniques for controlling illegal forest activities, including public audits of various forest
operations. Two forest districts with particularly difficult situation in this area - Tsageri district in Westem
Georgia (Central Caucasus Pilot Area) and Tianeti district in Eastern Georgia (adjacent to the Priority
Reforestation Area north of Tbilisi) - will be the objects of this joint activity of SFD and the NGOs. A
proposal for grant funding of this activity (outside the scope of the credit) is being prepared by a working
group of Georgian NGOs facilitated by the Green Altemative (with assistance of Global Forest Watch and
Transparency Intemational); after its discussion with the SFD, it will be submitted to the World
Bank-Netherlands Partnership Trust Fund.
45.    Forest Protection. The SFD Forest Protection Division and the Mountain Forest Research
Institute are the principle institutions responsible for insect and pest monitoring and control measures.
Since 1990 they and the SFD have operated in isolation of developments in research techniques and
systems for the control of forest pest and diseases. The physical infrastructure - equipment, control agents
and laboratory facilities -are outdated and in almost all instances no longer functioning.
46.    Annual national forest pest and disease surveys were reduced significantly since 1996 and have
currently almost completely ceased due to a lack of funding. Remaining pest and fire research, monitoring
and protection activities are haphazard, because there is insufficient capacity to respond to the current
pressing needs and future amelioration of these threats. The most recent survey in 1998 identified 30,000
ha as needing urgent treatment of which only 10,000 ha were subsequently treated. The absence of
treatment since then has resulted in a significant increase in the area requiring immediate intervention.
47.    Georgian forests are susceptible to forest degradation resulting from illegal cutting, fire, wind,
insects and disease. The SFD estimate that in excess of GEL 3 million are lost annually due to these factors
of which pests account for 84% and forest fires 3%. New diseases and pests in pine, oak, sweet chestnut
and other species have been identified within the last five years. Little is known about their origin and/or
control. The rate of increase, while visible, is unknown and requires urgent assessment together with
environmentally friendly control measures to reduce the threat to these valuable tree species.
48.     Project activities under this sub component are aimed at restoring and improving systems of
- 42 -



inspection of forest operations and the re-introduction of integrated forest hazard management planning
through:
(a)    Establishing a mobile inspectorate unit to audit forest operations at district level. The unit
will be based in Tbilisi and function at the national level, independently of local field operatives. It
will liaise with local communities, NGO's, customs points and follow up on reports of illegal
activities. The unit will inspect and monitor compliance with national standards and regulations
and ensure the accountability and transparency of all forest activities including afforestation,
reforestation, road planning and development, inventory, forest management planning, cutting
licenses and certificates, harvesting and financial activities. Where irregularities are identified, the
unit will be responsible for ensuring that corrective measures are implemented. The project will
finance vehicles, office and telecommunication equipment for the unit in the second year. Support
financed under other components and additional donor-supported independent NGO monitoring
work (see paragraph 44) will also assist the unit. This includes the establishment of a public
'hotline' for reports of irregular and illegal activities, dissemination of legal and regulatory norms
and standards, training and the introduction of best practices. The unit will provide key input to
the status of current praclices and the development of activities planned under the project through
the provision of baseline information at the district level.
(b)    Strengthening enforcement in the Central Caucasus and other selected priority areas
through logistical support and equipment for forest guards. Without the physical and technical
infrastructure to monitor forest hazards and illegal activities, negative public perception will
remain, illegal activities will continue and the incidence of forest hazard will increase. The project
will finance the reconstruction and establishment of observation points, forest guard huts, regulated
access points, hazard alert equipment and uniforms for SFD staff in fourteen districts within the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area and Priority Reforestation Areas. The mountainous and hilly terrain
in these areas make it difficult to monitor forest hazard and illegal activity and establish an
effective communication system. Consequently observation points will be strategically located at
high-elevation points and manned during the fire season, periods of forest activity and when reports
of illegal activities have received. The observation points will be manned by forest guards and will
communicate through the: use of flare guns. Regulated access points will be established at key
forest road junctions. These will be manned by forest managers during periods of forest activities,
e.g. issuing harvesting licenses/certificates, road rehabilitation and construction, monitoring and
ensuring compliance with forest harvesting operations and controlling illegal logging.
(c)    Supporting integrated forest hazard manag'ement including grants for applied research in
forest protection, refurbishment of forest protection laboratory, pest and fire monitoring and
provision of forest hazardl protection equipment. The testing and certification of improved pest
control methods will be according to criteria approved by Georgian law and the Bank's operational
policy on use of pesticides. The extent of pest and disease infestation is unknown. The last survey
undertaken in 1998 represented a snapshot of forest pest and disease threat and was unable to
determine accurately the rate of increase, real level of degradation and appropriate mitigation
measures. Without a detailed forest hazard survey and management plan the rate of degradation
and financial loss will increase significantly. The project will finance the development of
integrated forest hazard lmanagement plans for each district. In addition, the project will support
research on the spread of Ips typographus, wilt and die back in Castanea, Quercus and coniferous
species, environmentally benign control systems and the rate of increase in defoliators in East
Georgia.
-43 -



(d)    In parallel with development of forest hazard management planning and research activities
the project will strengthen the technical capacity of the Institute of Mountain Forestry through the
refurbishment and equipping of its forest protection laboratory.
Development of Seed and Nursery Facilities (US$1.13 million)
49.    Seeds. The Georgia Seed Collection Company (GSS) is responsible for the collection and
processing of forest tree seed for the SFD's afforestation and reforestation programs. The Seed Research
Division of the SFD is responsible for seed testing and the certification and maintenance of national seed
stands. The Ministry of Environment regulates the quantity of seed harvested. Up to 1998 ten seed
companies operated in Georgia and had an annual export of 20 tons per annum. As a result of inconsistent
seed quality, inability to process and certify, foreign buyer's confidence in Georgia forest tree seed declined.
Seed collection, testing, certification and processing has ceased almost completely in the last three years
due to an absence of afforestation and reforestation programs, equipment to collect, process and test seed
and inability to provide quality certified seed. Many of the established seed stands especially in Racha and
Tbilisi regions require immediate restoration and improvement
50.    Activities under the seed subcomponent will strengthen seed collection, processing, certification
and storage capacity to respond to sustainable national seed requirements, protect valuable genetic
resources and restore market confidence in seed quality and supply. This will be achieved through:
(a)    Creation of modern seed processing facilities. The project will finance the construction of
a new seed processing building at Sartichala nursery. A number of alternative locations were
considered but deemed unsuitable due to location, infrastructure and logistics.
(b)    Introduction of seed processing (de-winging, de-coning, propagators for seed germination)
and laboratory equipment for seed testing. To meet future seed requirements, the project will
finance seed processing and laboratory equipment. The equipment will be installed at the new seed
center in Sartichala and a seed-testing laboratory to be located in the SFD headquarters in Tbilisi.
The equipment will provide for annual seed production capacity in excess of 20 tons. The
processing equipment will be capable of processing seed from coniferous, deciduous, shrub and
fruit bearing species in accordance with international best practice. Laboratory equipment will
ensure the necessary testing and certification of seed to meet domestic and international quality
standards.
(c)    Seed collection and seed stand improvement equipment. Restoration of seed stands and
seed collection capacity will be necessary to sustain the newly equipped seed processing facilities.
The project will finance sets of seed collection and seed stand restoration equipment including
climbing harnesses, ladders, tools for cleaning undergrowth, small storage shelters and all terrain
vehicles to transport seed.
(d)    Training of SFD staff Training will encompass the full spectrum of activities from
improving seed stands to certification of seed quality. Training will be provided through distance
learning, collaboration with European seed centers, study tours, in-country training, training of
trainers and practical tuition provided by leading experts in specialist fields.
51.    Nurseries. Up to 1997, ten million seedlings were produced annually for afforestation,
reforestation, urban greening and social forestry activities through a network of over 230 forest seedling
production units throughout Georgia. Of these, 130 are permanent nurseries of average size less than 0.5
- 44 -



ha. Only two nurseries - Sarlichala and Sagarejo - are greater than 50 ha. Seedling production in the past
was based on quantity and not quality. There was little synergy between production and
afforestation/reforestation aclivities resulting in poor economic practice and poor establishment. Seedling
production has declined rapicly since 1997, and less than 1 million seedlings are currently produced. These
seedlings are used mainly fot urban greening and social forestry activities. Almost all of thc nurseries
ceased activities in 2000 due to inadequate financial support obsolete equipment and absence of
afforestation and reforestation programs. Remaining seedling production systems and practices are based
on the 1 970s technology. There has been little or no investment in the intervening 30 years. All of the
buildings and equipment are no longer functional. The typical nurseries and the larger nurseries have no
electricity supply, irrigation, frost or wind protection and limited technical capacity to grow seedlings.
Seedlings are urgently requinrd for afforestation and reforestation to mitigate serious econornic and
environmental impacts causel by erosion in the Priority Areas (including nine districts arowud the capital
city of Tbilisi).
52.     Activities under the nursery subcomponent aim to (i) increase the seedling production capacity of
Sartichala nursery to meet future afforestation and reforestation needs. Sartichala nursery represents the
most suitable location for seedling production needs based on size, proximity to the Priority Reforestation
Area, elevation, soil quality, water supply, labor availability, access and general infrastructure. This
sub-component will also (ii) create a center of excellence for seedling production and (iii) demonstrate best
practice for forest nurseries and seed processing throughout Georgia. Seedling production activities will
commence in year I of the project to facilitate afforestation and reforestation by autumn 2003. Production
will be phased gradually to allow for institutional and technical capacity development. The project will
support:
(a)    Construction of nursera and administrative buildinas. Combining the activities for seed
processing, seedling production and research and seedling supply will allow for a focused approach
to meet future planned afforestation and reforestation needs. The project will finance the
construction and rehabilitation of administrative, operational and storage facilities including a fully
functional office, seed processing building, equipment repair and storage buildings and staff
accommodation. In addition, seedling production areas will be rehabilitated and a greenhouse for
containerized seedlin,g production will be developed.
(b)    Provision of an irrigation system. nursery equipment and machinery. Existing seedling
production capacity, quality and technology is insufficient to meet future needs. Thc: project will
finance the restoration of the primary irrigation lines and the incorporation of foliar and ground
watering equipment and systems. The project will finance the purchase of modem nursery
equipment to cater for multiple species production including deciduous, coniferous, shrub and fruit
bearing trees. This will include multi functional tractors including a reduction or crawler speed
tractor, tractor attachments - harrow, plough, rotary cultivator, bed former, seed sower, root
pruner and cutter, sprayer and seedling transplanter. Two multipurpose minibuses, to be used for
transporting nursery workers in nearby villages to Sartichala and providing transport to assist
activities under the aiforestation and reforestation program will be financed by the project. Two
3-4 ton trucks will be financed and used for transportation of seedlings to locations in the Priority
Reforestation Area.
(c)    Support for tursery activities. To reduce the impact of damaging wind and frost and
animal trespass, the project will finance the restoration of existing natural windbreaks, fencing and
frost protection facilities in Sartichala. The project will also finance containerized seedlings.
Although containerizAd seedlings are more expensive, they provide an opportunity to restore
-45 -



severely damaged and eroded areas where bare root seedlings have a high mortality and are
difficult to establish. Containerized production facilities allows for the micro propagation of
species where seed germiination is poor and seedling production costs are high. Within the scope of
planned activities in the nursery, the project will finance equipment for containerized seedling
research and production including soil mixers, heat system (ground and air), humidity and pH
regulation, containers, slow release fertilizer and micro propagation units.
(d)    Training of SFD nurserv staff. Present skills and previous nursery practice in Georgia are
inadequate to respond to modem systems and technologies used in the production of quality
seedlings. In addressing this technical shortfall, the project will finance an integrated training
program involving study tours, advanced training, exchange programs, training of trainers and
development of seedling production guidelines.
Afforestation and Reforestation in Priority Areas (US$637 million)
53.    Activities under this subcornponent aim to support the environmental, social and economic
sustainability of afforestation and reforestation of demonstration areas in the Priority Reforestation Area
encompassing the SFD districts of Bolnisi, Dusheti, Dmanisi, Kaspi, Mameuli, Mtskheta, Sagarejo,
Samgori and Tbilisi. Illegal fuel wood cutting, over-grazing and lack of maintenance has resulted in the
partial and complete deforestation in these areas together with decreased agricultural production, erosion
and sedimentation of waterways and reservoirs and decrease in biodiversity. In addition, social and
recreational benefits have been reduced significantly in areas adjacent to community and urban areas. The
afforestation and reforestation activities will contribute to: the increase of agricultural productivity;
enhanced biodiversity protection/existence value; landscape/aesthetic benefit; recreation and tourism
benefit; increase of non-wood forest products; decreased damage to civil infrastructure; carbon
sequestration; local employment generation; and timber production.
54.    Past afforestation and reforestation programs were large-scale, centrally planned operations on
state land. Emphasis was on achievement of physical targets, with little consideration for economic or
social impact of the program. Afforestation and reforestation procedures and techniques were inefficient
and there was no consultation or involvement with local conmmunities and other stakeholders. To address
these deficiencies, the project will only support afforestation and reforestation on sites selected on the basis
of economic, social and environmental considerations and cost benefit analysis. The project will implement
procedures and techniques demonstrative of best practice, ensure community participation and apply sound
economic principles within the Priority Reforestation Area.
55.    Within the Priority Reforestation Area, 31,000 ha of afforestation and 50,000 ha of reforestation
have been identified by the SFD. Demonstration areas will be established on 8,700 ha of SFD and eligible
private and community owned lands in the Priority Reforestation Area, based on screening against
identified criteria and where it can be shown that the benefits clearly outweigh the investment costs. In
addition, the sites will demonstrate modem techniques for forest establishment and the important role of
public consultation and participation. This will be achieved through:
(a)    Preparation of an afforestation and reforestation program. Afforestation and
reforestation planning and management are governed by a number of Government endorsed
instructions and directions. While they provide a sound technical basis, their practical
implementation and consideration of economic and social aspects is inadequate or nonexistent. To
redress these shortfalls, the project will strengthen the institutional capacity of the SFD
Afforestation/Reforestation Division in planning and programming through the provision of
-46 -



international technical assistance, training and the involvement of a national coordinator.
The detailed technical, ieconomic, environment and social parameters for the
afforestation/reforestation program will be completed during the I st year and tested during the 2nd
year on a limited area af pre-identified reforestation sites (100 ha). In the 3rd through 6th years,
when sufficient number of seedlings becomes available through project supported nurseries,
individuals, communities and other legal entities will be invited to submit applications, according to
these new parameters, lor afforestation and reforestation contracts fnanced by the project in the
Priority Area. The applications received in the 3rd and 4th year will be evaluated in conjunction
with the plans for the forest fund areas. A master plan for afforestation and reforestation of
demonstration and other areas in the Priority Area will be developed.
Under this subcomponent the following tentative procedures have been agreed for selecting the
highest priority sites and planning for the afforestation and reforestation programs:
*   SFD district ofices in the priority zone will survey and identify potential afforestation and
reforestation arzas in conjunction with local communities, private land owners and land
owners adjacent to forest fund properties identified for planting;
* Areas of privatuly or community owned land will be included (up to 10% of the
demonstration afforestation area only) provided the landowner is willing to change land
use conditions, participate in the planning and implementation activities and most
importantly accept responsibility for maintenance and long term protection;
*   Benefits will be quantified by percent of area eroded, depth of erosion, distance to
population centers, distance arable / production land, increase in crop yields, carbon
sequestered, non timber forest products, potential timber yield, decreased damage to civil
infrastructure, local employment generation and recreational/tourism benefit;
* All plans will be subject to public consultation and written endorsement of local
authorities presiding in the area;
* Species: Broadleaf and fruit-bearing species will be encouraged for use in all afforestation
and reforestation activities. On average the afforestation and reforestation program in the
demonstration areas will incorporate 50% coniferous and 50% deciduous species;
* Stocking density per ha for afforestation will not exceed 3,500 seedlings;
* Stocking density per ha for reforestation will not exceed 2,000 seedlings;
*   Only individual plots larger than 2 ha and less than 100 ha will be considered;
* 75% of the affarestation/reforestation will take place on sites with slopes less than 200 or
where mechanical soil preparation is achievable. 25% of the afforestation will take place
on slopes greatbr than 200 and will require a cost benefit analysis;
*   The project wiltl only finance site preparation works including fencing and private labor
costs for planting and maintenance up to four years;
* The total costs lper ha for afforestation/reforestation shall be justified through a
cost-benefit analysis (see Annex 4);
*   Afforestation and reforestation will be undertaken by private contract under the Bank's
- 47 -



competitive tendering procedures; and
SFD will be responsible for the design and supervision of all afforestation and
reforestation activities under the project.
These procedures will be revised in the 2nd year during the test reforestation activities.
Adjustments will also be made to reflect requirements for eligibility of afforestation/reforestation
activities in Georgia for carbon credits under the UNFCCC Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM). An analysis for such requirements for Georgia has been carried out in late 2001-early
2002 with support of the Canadian Intemational Development Agency (CIDA).
(b)    Implement afforestation and reforestation program. The project will finance up to 3,100
ha of afforestation and 5,700 ha of reforestation in the Priority Reforestation Area, according to
the principles outlined in item (a) above. These forest works will be undertaken by private
contracts awarded under the World Bank's competitive tendering procedures. The SFD will be
responsible for the design and supervision of all project planned afforestation. Provisions will be
made in these contracts to encourage and maximize gainful employment of local villagers. The
project will also explore opportunities for local communities to carry out forest works directly.
With the adoption of the forest management financing scheme, the Government shall be able to
finance out of its general budget, after the project completion, a targeted annual allocation for
priority afforestation/reforestation and other public forestry works throughout the country.
Project Component 4 - US$2.34 million
Pro*ect Management and Monitoring
56.    The Forest Sector Development Center (FSDC) has been established by the Presidential Decree as
the project management unit. It reports to SFD on technical matters and is housed within this department
to ensure project ownership by the implementing agency. However, on financial management and
disbursement matters, FSDC is reporting directly to the Ministry of Finance which oversees fiduciary
aspects of the project implementation. FSDC is already administering the PPF and will be responsible for
day-to-day project management and monitoring. Specifically, this will include contracting the delivery of
goods, works, and consultant services to implement the project, managing project accounts and finances,
assisting SFD to prepare annual work programs and monitoring project progress against agreed
deliverables. FSDC works under the direction of an interagency Supervisory Board and includes a project
director, technical manager, accountant, financial manager, procurement officer, secretary/interpreter and
operational assistant. The project will provide staff, office refurbishment and equipment, training, technical
assistance in procurement, and operating expenses for the FSDC. The cost of this component also includes
the Government contribution for taxes (estimated at US$0.89 million) that FSDC will have to pay to the
Treasury in connection with all intemational consulting services contracts under the project.
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project-Cost' By Component               US $million   US $million  US $million
1. Strengthen the National Regulatory, Financial and      2.10          1.60         3.70
Institututional Framework
2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central       3.36         1.84         5.20
Caucasus Pilot Area
3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas  6.30  0.92        7.22
4. Project Managemnent and Monitoring                      1.90         0.30         2.20
Total Baseline Cost                                       13.66         4.66         18.32
Physical Contingencies                                    0.95         0.14          1.09
Price Contingencies                                       1.73         0.20          1.93
Total Project Costs'             16.34          5.00        21.34
Total Financing Required              16.34          5.00        21.34
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cosit By Category               US $million  US $million   US $million
1. Works                                                   11.17          0.12         11.29
2. Goods                                                    0.76          2.14          2.90
3. Consulting Services, Training, Workshops and Audit       3.32          2.72          6.04
4. Incremental Operating Costs                              0.47          0.02          0.49
5. Recurrent Costs                                          0.62          0.00          0.62
Total Project Costs      16.34          5.00        21.34
Total Financing Required      16.34          5.00        21.34
Note: The individual component totals shown here in Annex Table 3 will not match the Indicative financing
for each component in the Component Table in the Description section of the main text of the PAD. This
table requires that the cost of contingencies be separated from the components, and then shown as line
items in aggregate. By contrast, the Component Table in the Description section of the PAD shows totals
for each component which include that comnponent's portion of physical and price contingencies.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 3.86 (USSm) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 17.48 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 89.64% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
-49 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Georgia's forests are a major national asset. They occupy 40% of the country's territory and constitute a
crucial element of Georgian natural environment, rural livelihood, cultural tradition, and national economy.
They are also of critical international importance as a habitat to unique biological and landscape diversity,
and as a factor of regional climatic and water regime. However, over the last decade, Georgia's forests has
been put under a serious threat of losing most of these values. The economic hardships led to increased
pressures on forests for fuelwood, grazing areas and hunting. The budgetary crisis caused a virtual
collapse of state forest management and discontinuation of effective enforcement of forest regulations,
leading to uncontrolled and illegal harvesting. The project aims to help reform the management of
Georgian forests in such a way that their contribution to the welfare of the Georgian society is maximized,
while environmental sustainability is ensured. This annex evaluates the economic benefits, including timber
and non-timber values, to the Georgian society relative to the project cost and the fiscal impact of the
project.
This analysis concentrates on the evaluation of the benefits and costs of (a) the entire project, (b) project
activities in improved forest planning and management in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (Component 2),
and (c) the project activities in afforestation/forest restoration/nursery development/improved seed
production in selected priority areas (Component 3 - Priority Reforestation Areas).
The first part of the annex concentrates on the economic analysis and the fiscal impact analysis is presented
in the second part. In each part first the assumptions made in estirnating project benefits/revenues and
costs are presented, followed by the results of the analysis. After that the results are tested in a sensitivity
analysis to gauge the effect of the assumptions on the variability of the results. Main conclusions of the
analyses for project implementation and policy action are drawn at the end of the annex.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic Analysis
The results of the economnic analysis are summarized in Table 1. The economic rates of return estimated in
this analysis justify the allocation of resources to this project. The two main project components, improved
forest planning and management in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, and afforestation/forest
restoration/nursery development/improved seed production in selected priority areas around Tbilisi are also
justifiable from an economic point of view. The overall project ERR, 18.71%, is higher than those of the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area and the Priority Reforestation Areas, 17.07% and 12.24% respectively, as the
former takes into account the benefits and relatively lower costs of other project components.
A breakdown of economic benefits is also provided in Table 1 in present value terms. Timber benefits are
highest. The project will not lead to an increase in timber volume harvested, rather the benefits will result
from reduced waste in harvesting, increased unit value from reduced transport costs and from higher prices
thanks to improved timber quality (achieved through better management and better harvesting practices).
Other significant values are those associated with soil protection through erosion reduction, tourism and
recreation, enhanced landscape and biodiversity conservation benefits. Table 10 presents the stream of
economic benefits and costs over a 20 year period.
Table 1: Summary of Economic Benefits due to the Project (US$)
- 50 -



Overall       Central         Priority
Proj ect   Caucasus Pilot  Reforestation
Area           Areas
ERR                                             18.71%        17.07%           12.24%
Present Values of Benefits (r=12'YO)
Timber                                       7,956,542      2,729,533           97,360
Soil Protection                                491,069           NA           491,069
Tourism and Recreation                         398-897         8,744           390,153
Carbon Sequestration                             7,191           283             6,264
Non-Timber Forest Products                    1,320,194        7,391        1,312,803
Decreased Infrastructure Damage                 80,778         3,498           63,289
Landscape                                     1,135,354        9,619          650,254
Biodiversity                                  1,623,091     950,961           196,650
Total                                       13,013,116     3,710,030        3,207,842
* The overall project ERR is higher than those of the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and the Priority Refbrestation
Areas, as the former takes into acccunt the benefits and relatively lower costs of other project components.
Economic rates of returns have also been calculated for each individual region in the Priority Reforestation
Areas. They vary significantly between below zero in Dmanisi and 24.63% in Gardabani, the most
populated region that includes Tbilisi (Table 2). This variation underlies the fact that while the overall
afforestation program may be economically justifiable, in individual areas this may not be true. Hence it is
crucial that afforestation and refcorestation areas be identified and prioritized based on benefit-cost analyses
in all candidate areas.
Table 2: Summary results of analysis for the Priority Reforestation Areas
NPV (U;SS,       ERR
r- 12/c)
Overall                      78,923        12.24%
By region:
Bolnisi                     252,951        19.61%
Dmanisi                    (175,260          <0%
Dusheti                     127,981        17.59%
Gardabani                  1,150,151       24.63%
Kaspi                       211,396        15.79%
Mameuli                    ( 125,990)       6.51%
Mtskheta                    (2415l)         8.41%
Sagarejo                    263,822        22.45%
Tetritskaro                 (2Si,932)      11.21%
Main Assumptions:
Project Benefits
Timnber Benefits
Timber benefits were calculated for three types of products: export quality log, domestic quality log, and
fuelwood. The most important variables that will determine timber related benefits due to the project are (i)
- 51 -



harvest volume; (ii) border/market price of timber; (iii) cost of harvesting; (iv) timber quality; (v) harvest
efficiency; (vi) forest protection; (vii) volume of illegal harvest. The assunptions made in this analysis
regarding these variables are listed below.
(i) Harvest Volume
Total timber harvest is composed of official (legal) and illegal harvest and equals nearly 1.2 mnillion m'.
Informnation about the official harvest volume for with and without-project scenarios was provided by SFD.
Illegal harvest of export quality logs was calculated by taking a low estimate of total Georgian exports
-114 thousand mi- (based on Georgian timber exports to Turkey and other countries) and subtracting
from it official harvest [1]. The same proportions were used for domestic (lower) quality logs (Table 3).
Furthermore, SFD estimates that a total of I million m3 of fuelwood is harvested per year. Since SFD cuts
only about 280 thousand m' fuelwood, about 720 thousand m' is cut illegally. Harvest is distributed
according to official harvest weights in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and beyond the Central Caucasus
Pilot Area (Table 3).
SFD's enhanced surveillance capabilities will reduce illegal harvest. It is assumed that due to these
measures illegal harvest will decrease by 20% from the current level in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area
and 10% in the rest of the country. It is also conservatively assumed that officially recorded harvest will
increase by the same volume, thereby, leaving the overall volume harvested in the short term at a constant
level of nearly 1.2 million mi.
Table 3: Annual harvest volumes with and without project (mi)
Harvest in Georgia total             m3
export timber  domestic timber  fuelwood     total
w/o project  total             114,000         68,000    1,000,000   1,182,000
official           69,000         41,000      278,000     388,000
illegal            45,000         27,000      722,000     794,000
w project   total              114,000         68,000    1,000,000   1,182,000
official           78,800         48,600      445,600     573,000
illegal            35,200         19,400      554,400     609,000
Harvest outside Central Caucasus Pilot Area
export timber  domestic timber  fuelwood     total
w/o project  total             104,000         39,000     840,000      983,000
oflficial          63,000         23,000      234,000     320,000
illegal            41,000         16,000      606,000     663,000
w project   total              104,000         39,000     840,000      983,000
oflficial         71,200          26,200     355,200     452,600
illegal           32,800          12,800     484,800     530,400
Harvest in Central Caucasus Pilot Area
export timnber  domestic timnber  fulelwood  total
w/o project  total             10,000          29,000     160,000      199,000
offilcial           6,000         18,000       44,000      68,000
illegal            4,000          11,000      116,000     131,000
w project   total              10,000          29,000     160,000      199,000
official           7,600         22,400       90,400     120,400
illegal            2,400          6,600       69,600      78,600
- 52 -



(ii) Border/Market Prices
Border/market prices were used to estimate gross timber profits. Export quality log prices were derived
from Turkey market estimates for Georgian beech logs. Domestic quality log prices and fuelwood prices
were taken from local markets. It is assumed that timber prices will increase by 5% as a result of the
project. This timber price increase reflects better marketing skills and higher timber quality resulting from
the application of modem harvesting technologies and better work organization.
Table 4 presents the assumption; made on border/market prices, economic prices and stumpage values of
export quality timber, domestic quality timber and fuelwood per cubic meter in the Central Caucasus Pilot
Area and beyond.
Table 4: Timber-related prices and values (US$/m')
Central Caucasus Pilot Area                        w/o project                       with project
Export    Domestic     Fuel-       Export    Domestic     Fuel-
Sawlog     Sawlog      wood       Sawlog     Sawlog       wood
Border/Market Price                         120.00      60.00      14.00      126.00      63.00       14.70
Logging and transportation (net of taxes)    61.00      42.50       7.50       51.00      32.50        7.50
Logging                                      10.00       6.50       4.00       10.00       6.50        4.00
Additional Equipment Cost                     6.00       6.00       0.00        6.00       6.00        0.00
Forest Road Repair                           15.00      15.00       0.00       10.00       10.00       0.00
Transport to District                        15.00      15.00       3.50        10.00      10.00       3.50
Transport to Border                          15.00       0.00       0.00      15.00        0.00       0.00
Stumpage Value                               59.00      17.50       6.50       75.00      30.50        7.20
Georgia Beyond Central Caucasus Pilot Area         w/o project                       with     t
Export    Domestic     Fuel-       Export    Domestic     Fuel-
Sawlog     Sawlog      wood       Sawlog      Sawlog      wood
Border/Market Price                         120.00      60.00      14.00      126.00       63.00      14.70
Logging and transportation (net oftaxes)     61.00      42.50       7.50       61.00       42.50       7.50
Logging                                      10.00       6.50       4.00        10.00       6.50       4.00
Additional Equipment Cost                     6.00       6.00       0.00        6.00       6.00        0.00
Forest Road Repair                           15.00      15.00       0.00        15.00     05.00        0.00
Transport to District                        15.00      15.00       3.50        15.00      15.00       3.50
Transport to Border                          15.00       0.00       0.00        15.00       0.00       0.00
Stumpage Value                               59.00      17.50       6.50       65.00       20.50       7.20
(iii) Cost of harvesting
Cost figures for with and without project scenarios were provided by the SFD (Table 4). Costs of
harvesting and transportation are high because of poor road network and outdated harvesting and
transportation equipment. For example, transportation costs to the border amount to US$45 per mi3, which
is about 100% more than transportation costs in other countries for similar loads and distances.
In the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, better harvesting organization and investment in modem equipment
will keep harvesting costs from rising. The same is assumed for the rest of the country. Substantial
investment into road construction and maintenance will decrease transportation costs in the Central
- 53 -



Caucasus Pilot Area by 30%. Transportation costs in the rest of the country remain unchanged.
(iv) Harvest efficiency
Project implementation will increase harvest efficiency. Currently used, outdated equipment prevents full
utilization of harvested trees. Old and hard to operate chain saws make it difficult to cut maximum length
logs and avoid log splitting and other felling damages. Outdated harvesting and transportation equipment
also makes it difficult to transport very large logs, which consequently may need to be cut into smaller, less
valuable segments for transport. Modem equipment and better work planning will help to solve these
problems and better utilize harvested trees. It is assumed that harvest efficiency will increase by 5% in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area and by 3% in the rest of the country. Because timber is harvested and utilized
more efficiently, this timber harvest increase does not require cutting more trees or harvesting larger area.
(v) Forestprotection
SFD estimates that on average annually nearly 200 ha are subjected to fire. It is assumed that with
improved forest fire protection in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, 50% of area currently burnt can be
saved and that 20% of saved wood volume will actually be harvested and sold on the market. For the rest
of the country, it is assumed that 25% of burnt area can be saved and that 20% of saved wood volume will
be harvested and sold on the market.
SFD also estimates that nearly 72 thousand ha are subject to pests and diseases. About 27 thousand ha
received some type of protective treatment, but its effectiveness is not known. Proper and effective forest
protection is assumed to save from damage 50% of currently affected area. Average pest or disease loss
amounts to about 20% of wood volume per ha. In the Central Caucasus Pilot Area it is assumed that 20%
of saved wood volume per ha is actually harvested and sold. In the rest of the country, it is assumed that
only 25% of currently affected area is saved and that 20% of saved wood is harvested and sold on the
market.
(vi) Illegal harvest
Illegal harvest operations do not follow forest management prescriptions about ensuring proper stand
regeneration and minimizing losses to the residual stand. This results in losses in timber growth and quality
that are assumed to equal 50% of the value of average annual growth, which currently equals about 2 Mr
/ha.
Timber benefits were also estimated in the Priority Reforestation Areas where afforestation/forest
restoration will be carried out mainly for protective, amenity, and non-timber products values. It is
assumed that from year 11 onwards, annually 2 m'/ha of fuelwood will be generated from cleaning and
thinning operations. In the economic analysis, fuelwood is valued at the stumpage value of US$7.20/m .
Table 5: Effects of various project interventions on timber benefits at full benefit accrual in
Year 11 (US$)
-54 -



Increase in profits-improved quiality
Total timber profit increase                     $1,230,520
Savings-increased harvest efficiiency
Harvest efficiency growth (m3)                      19,598
Total reduction in losses                         $326,880
Savings-limited illegal harvest
Illegal harvest area reduction (ha/yr)              12,333
Total savings (equal value of 2 m3/ha/yr growth)   $51,240
Savings-forest protection
Fire damaged area (ha/yr)                              193
Volume saved and sold (m3/yr)                        1,710
Pest damaged area (ha/yr)                           71,640
Volume saved and sold (m3/yr)                       38,041
Savings from losses                               $552,200
Total increase/decrease in profit/losses         $2,160,8401
Phasing of Benefits. It is assumed that the timber benefits will start accruing in project year 3 at 10% of
the full potential benefits and graduatly increase to reach 100% in project year 11.
Non-Timber Benefits
(i) Agricultural productivity increase
Mitigating the negative effects of wind and water erosion on agricultural land through the (re)creation of
shelterbelts is the primary objective of the afforestation/reforestation component of the project. The
economic benefits from increased land productivity were estimated by conservatively assuming that
beginning in year 7 after plantation, the net agricultural income, assumed to range between US$219/ha and
US$327/ha in the without project scenario will increase by 0.75% a year for seven years [2]. This will lead
to a cumulative increase of about 5.4% [3]. It is assumed that this increase will be realized in adjacent
agricultural land up to three times as large as the afforested/reforested areas.
(ii) Enhanced biodiversity protection/existence value
Central Caucasus Pilot Area: The project will finance the development of forest management plans that
aim at minimizing the negative effects of timber cuts on Central Caucasus' rich biodiversity. This
contrasts with the without-project scenario in which the continuation of uncontrolled and illegal forest cuts
is expected to have an increasingly damaging effect on both biodiversity and landscapes. The value of
damage averted are approximated in the light of the results of a contingent valuation survey carried out
among Georgian city dwellers in late 1999 [4]. The survey results suggest that, on average, Georgian city
dwellers are willing to pay about US$0.5 per year per person in contribution to improved biodiversity
protection in three nature reserves (Lagodekhi, Akhmeta and Vashlovani) [5]. This willingness-to-pay
analysis (WTP) reflects the value that respondents would derive from knowing that biodiversity is better
protected. In the case of Central Caucasus it needs to be taken into account that biodiversity conservation
will be not as focused as in natun- reserves where human influence is minimized to scientific research and
the differences in income and preferences between city dwellers and the rest of the Georgian population.
Hence it is assumed in this analys;is that on average 10% of this value, US$0.05, will be derived by
Georgians from knowing that biodiversity in Central Caucasus will be better protected.
Priority Reforestation Areas: The deterioration of forests in the regions surrounding Tbilisi has contributed
to the endangerment of a number of wildlife species endemic to the area [6]. Afforestation/reforestation
- 55 -



activities will contribute to habitat rehabilitation. These benefits are quantified by assuming that the
Georgian population will derive on average US$0.025 per person per year from knowing that biodiversity
will be protected in this part of the country even if they never see and/or make use of these species. The per
person value is assumed to be half of that in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area due to the more limited area
on which afforestation activities will be carried out.
Rest of Georgia: Enhanced management capacity and enforcement of regulations will also contribute to
biodiversity conservation in forest areas beyond the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and the Priority
Reforestation Areas. Due to more limited direct interventions by the project in these areas, half of the per
person value in Central Caucasus Pilot Area is assumed for 10% of the Georgian population.
(iii) Non-timberforest products
Central Caucasus Pilot Area: Information is available on nuts and medicinal plants harvest from the
forest areas. A study on forest resources in Oni [7] reported in 1999 that annually 5 tons of nuts (a
combination of various species) was produced in this region. An average stumpage price of US$1.50/kg is
assumed [8). World Bank. estimated the country wide net revenues that collectors of medicinal plants
derive at about US$80,000 per year. It is assumed that 17%, ratio of Central Caucasus Pilot Area forest
area to Georgia's total forest area, of this value is derived in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area.
Furthermore, the Oni report mentions that annually one ton of bilberries are harvested in Oni. In this
analysis, this figure is adjusted upward to three tons to account for other berries and other regions in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area. An average net value of US$0.125/kg is assumed. For all three products, it
assumed that the net value will increase by 10 percent due to the better forest protection, enhanced access
to forests as a result of road rehabilitation and extension, better knowledge of resources due to improved
forest products inventory and of markets due to technical assistance in NTFP marketing provided by the
Project, and forest protection.
Priority Reforestation Areas: Under the Project, a total of 1,153 ha will be planted to walnuts and
almonds, and 184 ha to pomegranates, apricots and wild apples. Furthermore, high quality honey may be
produced in areas where acacia (133 ha), lime tree (13 ha) and oak (143 ha) will be planted. Hay will also
be obtained from afforested/reforested areas. The direct consumnption or marketing of these products will
provide economic benefits to the local communities. Table 5 lists the total areas from which these NTFPs
will be obtained, their yields, the years of first harvest after planting and the derived on site economic
value. It was assumed that market prices will remain at the current level. The economic prices NTFPs at
the forest were approximated by deducting 50% of the Tbilisi market value to account for production,
transportation, marketing costs and associated taxes.
Table 5: Areas, yields and net economic values of NTFPs
Yields      Value    First harvest
Product         Area (ha)  (kg/ha)    (US$/kg)    year after
''~~' afforestation
Honey (from Acacia)     152        20        2.50          6
Honey (from Tilia)      143        20        3.25          6
Walnut                  659       900        1.75          11
Almond                  494       250        0.75          6
Pomegranate             14        175        0.50          6
Apricot                 135       1350       0.75          6
Wild apple              35        500        0.05          6
- 56 -



(iv) Landscape/aesthetic benefits
Priority Reforestation Areas: Affforestation/reforestation will improve the aesthetic value of degraded
landscapes in the environs of Tbilisi. As forests have been a distinct part of Georgian cultural heritage,
their reestablishment near settlements will constitute a welfare improvement. It is expected that the high
value Georgians place on forested landscapes will also be reflected in real estate values around Tbilisi.
However, a formal study on the aesthetic value for inhabitants of the afforested/restored forest regions is
not available. In this analysis, the value is quantified conservatively assuming a per Priority Reforestation
Areas inhabitant value of US$0.25 per year due to afforestation/forest restoration from year 8 onwards.
This value is well in the range of values that an average Georgian is found to place on intangible benefits of
nature protection, as discussed under the heading o biodiversity protection.
Central Caucasus Pilot Area: WVithout the project, it is expected that illegal timber cuts will cause serious
damage to the landscapes of Cenltral Caucasus that is highly treasured in the Georgian culture.
Management plans financed by the project will ensure that timber cuts are carried out in a way that
minimizes their negative effect on these landscapes. The damage averted is estimated at US$0.05 per
annum per inhabitant of the Centtral Caucasus Pilot Area. A substantially lower value was assumed for the
Central Caucasus region, as the benefit of the project is not expected to be as drastic as in the Priority
Afforestation Areas where new vegetation will appear on highly degraded slopes.
For the rest of the country an annual per person value of US$0.025 is assuned. The lower value than in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area reflects the fact that the Project will have less focused impact on the rest of
the country.
(v) Recreation and tourism benefits
Central Caucasus Pilot Area: The project will not make any direct tourism related investments in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area. However, by preventing likely damage to the biodiversity and landscape, the
project will help protect the tourism potential of the Central Caucasus region. Conservatively assuming
annual number of tourist days at 5,000 and a per day per tourist net economic value generated at US$10,
and that 5% of the total tourism value may be lost due to damage to biodiversity and landscape, the annual
net tourism benefit is approximated as US$2,500 [5].
Priority Reforestation Areas: Newly created wooded areas will provide recreation opportunities to local
communities in the form of to picnicking, walking, hiking. Reduced sedimentation in rivers and lakes will
enhance the quality of fishing, a popular past time activity among Georgians. Furthermore, habitat
creation for game will provide better hunting opportunities for local communities and visitors. T[he
consumer surplus derived by visitors thanks to the newly established forest areas is approximated using the
results of a recent household survey on Georgians' habit of taking nature trips and demand for visiting
newly established national parks. Using different techniques, the average daily willingness to pay to enter
national park to hike, walk or picnic was estimated at US$0.72 [5]. Since, unlike national parks, the new
forest areas around settlements in the Priority Reforestation Areas will not have well developed hiking trails
and picnic areas, in this analysis we take US$0.15 as an approximation for the benefit derived from visiting
the newly wooded areas. It is further assumed that each inhabitant of the Zone will visit any one of the
newly established or restored wooded area once per year. (The said survey found that on average
Georgians take four nature trips per year.) Finally, it is assumed that the recreational benefits will start
accruing in Year 7.
- 57 -



(vi) Decreased damage to civil infrastructure
Priority Reforestation Areas. The Municipality of Bolnisi spends about US$20,000 annually for
sediment/ flood debris clean-up activities [9]. In this analysis, conservative damage estimates are
extrapolated for other regions in the Priority Reforestation Areas based on population size and existence of
civil infrastructure under threat from flooding/landslides and sediment flows that would be mnitigated by
afforestation/forest restoration (Table 6). It is further assumed that about 50% of this damage would be
avoided thanks to afforestation from the eighth year following planting.
Table 6: Estimated damage mitigation costs avoided in the Priority Reforestation Areas
Damage avoided               Damage avoided
District        (US$/year)    District       (US$/year)
Bolnisi          10,000       Marneuli         2,500
Dmanisi           2,500      Mtskheta           5 ,000
Dusheti           10,000      Sagarejo           0
Gardabani         10,000     Tetritskaro         0
Kaspi             3.75        _    _             _   _
Central Caucasus Pilot Area: Data on the annual damage incurred in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area due
to floods, land slides and sedimentation is not available. It is assumed that the state spends about half of
the amount spent in Bolnisi, US$20,000, which has a similar population size as the Central Caucasus Pilot
Area and is surrounded by step mountain slopes, but has more developed infrastructure. It is assumed that
the effect of proper forest management will decrease this expenditure by 10 percent.
For the areas beyond the Priority Reforestation Areas and the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, an annual
damage of US$40,000 and an averted damage ratio of 10% are assumed.
(vii) Carbon sequestration
In this analysis we assume an average carbon uptake of 2.5 t C/ha and the period of sequestration as 50
years [10]. For the Priority Reforestation Areas it is assumed that carbon sequestration begins in year 7
after plantation. In the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, it is assumed that 200/o of the forests currently
damaged by fires and 4% of forests damaged by pests will be saved and sequester carbon. Beyond the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area the corresponding ratios are assumed as 10% and 2%. US$10/t, offered by
the Prototype Carbon Fund in 2001, is taken as the market price.
(viii) Local employment generation
The project components evaluated in this analysis will generate employment for local communities through
civil works. This benefit was included in the economic analysis through the use a shadow wage rate equal
to 50% of the tax-adjusted financial wage rate.
(ix) Other Benefits
A number of environmental benefits from afforestation and better forest management could not be
quantified due to lack of data. These benefits include decreased sedimentation of irrigation schemes, and
drinking water and hydroelectric reservoirs, as well as improved air quality in the Tbilisi area. No attempt
has been made to quantify these benefits, since with afforestation of only 8,700 ha undertaken by the
- 58 -



project would have only limited impact. The project, however, lays the groundwork for more intensive
afforestation which would pol entially have a significant impact in these areas.
Project Costs
The present value of the total project costs in economic temns is US$8.19 million (Table 8). The present
values of the costs of two main investment operations evaluated in this analysis, Improved Forest Planning
and Management in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and Afforestation and Reforestation in Priority Areas,
are calculated as US$2.71 million and US$3.13 million respectively. These costs include expenditures
incurred during the project period of 6 years and recurrent costs, including operations and maintenance
costs, beyond the project period that will be incurred by the SFD or the private sector to sustain the
project's benefits. As is standard in ERR analysis, the project costs were adjusted to remove taxes and
duties.
Table 8: Present value of project costs at r=0.12 (US$)*
Economic Costs
Overall Project                       8,190,837
Central Caucasus Pilot Area       2,712,330
Priority Reforestation Areas      3,128,919
Includes after-project recurrent costs.
The cost of afforestation/reforestation in priority areas is assumed at US$650/ha and US$500/ha,
respectively. These figures are: lower than the client's original estimates of US$800 and US$700. They
take into account that substantial cost savings may be achieved by concentrating afforestation and
reforestation in areas where the community regards this as vital for their welfare and commits to protecting
the new forests, thus reducing outlays for fencing.
In evaluating the project components in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and the Priority Reforestation
Areas, the econornic costs of reforrming the regulatory framework (Component 1) and forest protection and
inspection are partially includel in order to account for the fact that these components are crucial for the
success of Central Caucasus Pilot Area and Priority Reforestation Areas project activities. The ratio of
forest districts (4 in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, 9 in the Priority Reforestation Areas) to the total
number of forest districts, 54, is used in apportioning these costs. Similarly, the cost of project
management (Comnponent 4) was accounted for by assigning it to each component in the same ratio as
between component cost and total project cost.
It is assumed that investment costs during the period of analysis will be limited to those covered by the
project. However, operations and maintenance costs are assumed to continue to recur annually at the level
of the 6th project year. Finally, costs include price and physical contingencies.
- 59 -



Table 9: Flow of economic benefits over 20 years (US$)
Year r    I1        2          3         4         5          6         7
ECONOMIC BENEFITS       I
Timber Benefits due to Project
Central Caucasus Pilot Area      0         0     78,036    156,072   234,108    327,751   429,198
Beyond the Lab Zone              0         0    146,654    293,308   439,962    615,947   806,598
Afforestation                    0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Subtotal                         0         0    224,690    449,380   674,070    943,699  1,235,796
Non-Timber Benefits due to the project
Lab Zone                         0         0     28,032     56,064    84,096    117,734   154,175
Beyond the Lab Zone              0         0     27,606     55,212    82,818    115,945   151,833
Afforestation                    0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Subtotal                         0         0     55,638    111,276   166,9133   233,679   306,008
Total Benefits          |-    --T 0            280,3281   560,6561  840,9841 1,177,377r 1,541,804
ECONOMIC COSTS          |  646,1141 2,209,5711 2,885,1881 2,182,5151 1,915,8901 1,906,6131  106,839
NET BENEFITS               -646,1141 -2,209,571  -2,604,8601 -1,621,8591 -1,074,9061  -729,2361 1,434,965
NPV                       4,822,279
ERR (overall project)       18.71%
YEAR       8         9         10        11         12    |              20
ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                       _
Timber Benefits due to the project
- Central Caucasus Pilot Area        522,841   616,485    710,128   780,360    780,360    ...       780,360
- Outside Central Caucasus Pilot Area  982,583  1,158,568  1,334,553  1,466,541  1,466,541  ...   1,466,541
-Afforestation benefits                   0          0         0          0         0     ...       124,711
Subtotal                            1,505,424  1,775,0521 2,044,680  2,246,901  2,246,901  ...     2,371,613
Non-TImber Benefits due to the project                           l                        n
- Central Caucasus Pilot Area        187,81    221,452    255,090   280,319    280,319    ...       280,319
- Outside Central Caucasus Pilot Area  184,960  218,087   251,214   276,059    276,059      ...     276,059
- Afforestation benefits               2,807    37,942    156,224   485,285    946,810|   ..      2,490,822
Subtotal                              375,580   477,480    662,528  1,041,663  1,503,189  ...      3,047,201
Total Benefits                     1 1,881,004  2,252,5321 2,707,2081 3,288,564  3,750,090  ...    5,418,813
ECONOMIC COSTS                    [   106,8391  106,8391   106,8391  106,8391   106,8391  ...        106,839
NET1BENEFITS                        1,774,165  2,145,6941 2,600,369  3,181,7251 3,643,251  ...     5,311,974
NPV                                 4,822,279
ERR (overall project)                 18.71%
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis is carried out to gauge the effect of assumptions made on the variables that determine
the economic rate of return of the project and its components. As Table 10 indicates, the overall project
ERR is not sensitive to somewhat sensitive to variations in the values assumed for the main variables; it
remains well above the critical level of 12% when the assumed values are halved. The overall project ERR
also remains above 12% if all costs are assumed 20% higher or all benefits 20% lower. The same is true
for a two year delay in the materialization of the benefits. The ERR of the project component in the Central
Caucasus Pilot Area is also robust to halving assumed values for the main variables. The economic return
of the afforestation component is sensitive to the assumption on per hectare cost of afforestation and
reforestation. This analysis assumed per ha costs of US$650 and US$500, respectively. Increasing the
afforestation cost to US$800/ha and the reforestation cost to US$700/ha reduces the ERR of this
component to 10.24%. The ERR of the afforestation component is also sensitive to large changes in values
- 60 -



assumed for agricultural productivity increase, biodiversity and aesthetic values, and NTFP prices.
Table 10: Sensitivity analysis
A. Effect of decreasing key assumed values on ERR                  __ent_al_
Overall Project  Caucasus Pilot  AfTorestation
Assumption                  ERR             ERR             ERR
Base Case                                   18.71%         17.07%            12.240/
Illegal harvest decreases by 20%h and
I 1/o instead of 40% and 20%                17.63%         15.53%            12.240/
Increase in border price 2.5% instead of
5%                                          16.32%         15.35%            12.23/c
Transportation cost decreases by 1/6
instead of 1/3                              18.32%         15.64%            12.24%
Harvest efficiency increases by 2.5% and
1.5% instead of 5% and 3%                   17.96%         16.28%            12.24%
Protection from pest damage in 15% arid
7.5% of affected area, instead of 30%/o
and 15%                                     17.50%         15.71%            12.24%
Aannual agricultural productivity
increase 40% instead of 75%                 18.47%         17.07%            11.52%
Biodiversity value $0.025 and $0.013
instead of $0.05 and $0.025                 17.99%         14.77%            11.94%
Aesthetic value $0.13, $0.025 and
$0.013                                      17.74%         17.05%            11.220/
NTFP prices 500/o lower                     18.06%         17.07%            10.04%/
NTFP yields 50%h lower                      18.06/o       17.07A           l0.04W/
Cost of afforestation and reforestation
$800/ha and $700/ha vs. $650/ha and
$500/ha                                     17.560/o       17.15%            10.34
B. Effects of changes in overall costs and benefits on overall project ERR
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _   ER R
Bsae case                                    18.71%
All benefits up 20%                          21.71%/O
All benefits down 20%0_                      15.33%
All costs up 20%                             15.93%
All costs down 20%                =          22.42%
Shifting all benefits out two years          14.99%
_ _ _ __ _  Change
Increase in costs to get 12$                 58.80%
Decrease in benefits to get to 12%           37.00%
FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
Summary of Results
Four types of government expenditures are considered in this analysis: (a) Project expenditures to be
covered by the Government; (b) continued recurrent costs to be incurred by the Government to operate and
maintain investments made by the projects; (c) the cost of the IDA loan, and (d) IDA loan repayment. The
- 61 -



state will collect taxes from the PTU for the goods and services it procures for project implementation, as
well as from the providers. These taxes, including VAT, income tax, social security tax, profit tax and
dividend tax, were estimated and deducted from the PIU expenditures as they constitute a revenue for the
State. As in the case of the economic analysis, the after-project recurrent costs are assumed to be at the
same level as those in the final project year. Finally, the cost of the IDA loan, namely the service charge
of 0.75% and the commitment charge of 0.5% is accounted for as a fiscal cost (Table 11).
Fiscal revenues increase dramatically under the assumptions of the analysis, notably increases in timber
harvest volume and quality, auction premiums and tax collection rates. In the Central Caucasus Pilot Area,
annual revenues will increase from $0.5 million to US$1.0 million annually - a US$0.5 million increase. In
the rest of the country fiscal revenues increase from US$2.4 million to US$4.0 million - a US$1.6 million
increase. Overall, fiscal revenues increase by US$2.1 million annually. Government revenues associated
with non-timber benefits, including cost savings, are estimated to be in the amount of US$0.18 million
annually (Table 12).
Assumptions of the Fiscal Analysis
Increased revenues to the Georgian Treasury are expected from a number of sources. These include
increased tax revenues from: (a) the increased per unit values and volume of timber harvested; (b)
improved monitoring and govemance and reduction of illegal harvesting (and therefore collection of taxes
from these operations); and (c) better, more transparent auctions for harvests leading to higher timber
prices. Fiscal revenues include stumpage, fees from auctions, income, profits, social security and
value-added taxes. Variables that merit special attention include: (i) tax collection rate; (ii) decrease in
illegal harvesting; and (iii) stumpage and other timber fees.
(i) Tax collection rate
Tighter controls on timber cuts will improve the efficiency with which timber related taxes are collected. It
is assumed that without the project the average tax collection rate is 30% (as compared to 50/o for other
sectors of economy, as reported in the IMF Georgia Economic Update 2000). This low estimate results
from substantial illegal harvest and estimates from Turkish markets, both of which indicate this low
collection rate of fees and taxes for logs imported from Georgia [11]. It is assumed that as a result of
better enforcement of laws and control of timber trade, tax collection rates will increase to 45%.
(ii) Decrease in illegal harvesting
As stated in the economic analysis, it is assumed that illegal harvest will decrease by 40% in the Central
Caucasus Pilot Area and by 20% in the rest of the country as a result of better law enforcement.
(iii) Stumpage fees and auction markups
Stumpage fees for export quality logs equal US$10/in. Selling these logs on auctions offers a premium of
US$6.50/m. Export quality logs stumpage value equals US$59/mn. Currently, loggers capture nearly
US$35 of the stumpage value and the state about US$24 per mi, which indicates that the state can increase
its timber revenues by capturing a larger share of the stumpage value. The government, however, does not
have plans to increase stumpage fees, relying instead on auctions to increase timber revenues. Auction
premiums are expected to increase to US$10/ml for export quality logs (Table 11) [12].
- 62 -



Table 11: Derivation of Government revenues from harvesting activities (US$/m3)
Central Caucasus Pilot Area               w/o project _    _      _       with project       l
Export   Domestic    Fuel-     Export   Domestic    Fuel-
Timber    Timber     wood      Timber    Timber     wood
Border/Market Price                 120.00 i0    .00     14.00     126.00     63.00     14.70
Harvesting & Transportation          61.00     60.00     14.00      51.00     32.50      7.50
Levies related to timber cuts        17.75     42.50      7.50      21.25     11.25      1.35
Stumpage Fee                      10.00     10.00      1.35      10.00     10.00      1.35
Auction Markup                     6.50      0.00      0.00      10.00      0.00      0.00
Harvest Allocation                 1.25      1.25      0.00       1.25      1.25      0.00
Harvester's gross profits            41.25      6.25      5.15      53.75     19.25      5.85
Total Taxes*                         21.50      8.31      3.58      23.73     10.68      3.78
Tax Collected**                       6.45      2.49      1.07      14.24      6.41      2.27
Total Government Revenues            24.20     13.74      2.42      35.49     17.66      3.62
Georgia Beyond C.Caucasus Area            w/o project                    with project
Export   Domestic    Fuel-     Export   Domestic    Fuel-
Timber    Timber     wood      Timber    Timber     wood
Border/Market Price                 120.00 iO    .00     14.00     126.00     63.00     14.70
Harvesting & Transportation          61.00     42.50      7.50      61.00     37.50      7.50
Levies related to timber cuts        17.75     11.25      1.35      21.25     11.25      1.35
Stumpage Fee                      10.00     10.00      1.35      10.00     10.00      1.35
Auction Markup                     6.50      0.00      0.00      10.00      0.00      0.00
Harvest Allocation                 1.25      1.25      0.00       1.25      1.25      0.00
Harvester's gross profits            41.25      6.25      5.15      43.75     14.25      5.85
Total Taxes*                         21.50      8.31      3.58      22.20      9.91      3.78
Tax Collected**                       6.45      2.49      1.07      13.32      5.95      2.27
Total Government Revenues            24.20     13.74      2.42      34.57     17.20      3.62
*Taxes include Personal Income Tax (20%), Social Security (31%), Profit Tax (20%), Dividend Tax (10%).
** It is assumed that tax collection rate is 30% without and 45% with the project.
Non-Timnber Related Fiscal Revenues
(i) Tax revenues from agricultural production and NTFPs
It is assumed that the average tax rate on profits from agricultural and NTF products is 10%. This
assumption is based on the fact that the majority of these products are for own consumption, exchanged in
barter transactions and or sold informally.
(ii) Decreased damage to civil infrastructure
We approximate the econornic benefit associated with damage avoided to civil infrastructure by estimating
the cost averted by goveurnent agencies. Hence these also represent decreased government expenditures,
in other words, fiscal benefits.
- 63 -



(iii) International transfersfor carbon sequestration
It was assumed that the carbon sequestration benefits identified in the section on economic benefits will be
received by the Govemment of Georgia in the form of intemational transfers, such as from the Prototype
Carbon Fund.
Table 11: Project related Fiscal Flows (US$)
YEAR                      1          2         3          4          5          6          7         8
REVENUES                                          _                    _
Timber Revenues
Central Caucasus Pilot Area                 0          0      50,018   100,035    150,053    210,074    275,097   335,119
Beyond the Lab Zone                          0         0     159,332   318,664    477,996    669,194    876,326  1,067,524
Afforestation                               0 _     _            0          0         0          0         0          0
Sub-total                    L              0          0    209,350    418,699    628,049    879,269  1,151,423  1,402,643
Non-Timber Revenues
Central Caucasus Pilot Area         ____129                                258        388        543       711        866
Beyond the Lab Zone                 _____418                               837      1,255      1,757      2,301      2,803
Afforestation                                                     0          0                     0         0        281
Sub-total                                   0          C        548      1,095      1,643      2,300      3.012     3,950
Tax revenuesf rompoject expenditures  |  293,688[ 1,004,3501 1,311,449[  992,0521  870,8591  866,642 1  48,563 |   48,563 |
Total Revenues                     |   293,6881 1,004,3501 1,521,346[ 1,411,8471 1,500,551| 1,748,211[ 1,202,998  1,455,156|
EXPENDITURES
Government Project Outlays             243,116    934,928  1,107,611  1,186,594  1,108,535  1,106,807   194.252    194,252
Loan pay back                                0         0          0          0   jJ00o
Cost of Capital (interest + service charge)  76,596  74,892   80,619    93,508    101,225    107,190    117,514    117,514
Total expenditures                     319,7121 .21,09801.  188.230  1,280,102  1,09760   1,13,97     311,67     311,767
TOTALNETREVENUES                   [   -26,0241    -5,4691   333,116(   131,7451  290,7911   534,2141   891,2321 1,143,389
YEAR                      8          9         10         11         12         ...       20
REVENUES                          |            |         |          T         I_I              _I
Timber Revenues
Central Caucasus Pilot Area            335,119    395,140   455,161    500,177    500,177               500,177
Beyond the Lab Zone                  1,067,524  1,258,722  1,449,921  1,593,320  1,593,320    ...      1,593,320
Afforestation                               0|         0          0|         0|         0                23,764
Sub-total                            1,402,6431 1,653,8621 1,905,082  2,093,4971 2,093,4971   ...   1 2,117,261
Non-Timber Revenues                                                                       _         .
Central Caucasus Pilot Area                866      1,021      1,176      1,292     1,292     ...   |     1,292
BeyondtheLabZone                         2,803      3,305     3,808      4,184      4184|     ...         4,184
Afforestation                             281       3,649    12,616     31,803     48,194      .    |   176,573
Sub-total                               3,950       7,975    17,599     37,280     53,671     ...   |   182,050
Tax revenuesfrom project expenditures  1  48,5631  48,563 1  48,5631    48,5631    48,5631    ,,,    [  48,5631
Total Revenues                     | 1,455,1561 1,710,4011 1,971,2451 2,179,3401 2,195,7311   ...   | 2,347,873|
EXPENDITURES                                0          0          0          0          0     ...             0
Government Project Outlays             194,252    194,252    194,252    194,252   194,2521    ...       194,252
Loan pay back                               0          0          0          0          01    ...             0
Cost of Capital (interest + service charge)  117,514  117,514  117,514  116,927   114,576     ...   |    95,74
Totalexpenditures                      311,767   311,767    311,767    311,179    308,829I    ...       290,027
TOTAL NET REVENUES                 [ 1,143,3891 1,398,634  1,659,4781 1,868,1601 1,886,902    ...     2,057,847
Sensitivity Analysis
- 64 -



The results are highly sensitive to assumptions made on decrease in illegal harvest and increase in the tax
collection rate. If illegal harvest decreases by 20% in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area and by 10% in the
rest of the country, as opposed tc, 40% and 20%, respectively, the annual incremental revenues fall by
US$485 thousand. Similarly, if the tax collection rate increases by 25% as opposed to 50%, the
incremental revenues drop by U'.$321 thousand. Fiscal revenues are somewhat sensitive to assumptions
made on forest protection and auction price increases (Table 13).
Table 13: Sensitivity analysis or incremental timber harvest revenues with project* (US$/yr)
Incremental timber harvest reve s with project -
Central
Beyond Pilot Caucasus Pilot            Difference from
Area         Area         Total    _base case
Base Case                                  1,593,320      500,177    2,093,497            0
Illegal harvest decreases by 20% and 10%
instead of 40% and 20%                     1,245,775      362,000     1,607,776     -485,721
Increase in border price 2.5% instead of 5%  1,542,011    487,535     2,029,546      -63,950
Tax collection rate increases by 25%so vs. 50%  1,336,837  435,000    1,771,837     -321,660
Harvest efficiency increases by 2.5% and 1.5%                                  _
instead of 5% and 3%                       1,537,674      478,229     2,015,904 -    -77,593
Protection from pest damage in 15% and 7.5%
of affected area, instead of 30% andl 15%  1,507,142      463,066     1,970,208     -123,289
Auction price increases by $1.75/m3 vs.
$3.50/m3                                   1,476,683      487,039     1,963,722     -129,775
*Excludes benefits from afforestation (approximately US$40,000/year)
Conclusion of the Economic and Fiscal Analyses
The economic and fiscal impact .malyses suggest that Georgian forests are capable of generating
substantial economic benefits and revenues for the Government if managed in a proper way so as to
conserve the resource and the amnenities it provides. Revenues generated are to be used by the Government
for forest conservation as well as for other social objectives. The project ERR indicates that the Georgian
society as a whole would benefit considerably from timber and non-timber values of the forests. It is vital
that the SFD is allocated a budget that is sufficient for carrying out the operations and maintenance
activities as well as capital investments when the project investments have depreciated in order for the
economic benefits identified in this analysis to be sustained and for them to continue generating revenues
for the public sector.
End Notes
1/     Information about the official harvest volume for with and without-project scenarios was
provided by SFD. Illegal harvest of export quality logs was calculated by taking a low estimate of
total Georgian exports - 114 thousand m - and subtracting from it official harvest. The same
proportions were used for dorriestic (lower) quality logs (Table 3). Harvest volumes in the
Central Caucasus Pilot Area and beyond the Central Caucasus Pilot Area were estimated using
- 65 -



official harvest weights. Whenever timber harvest volume had to be converted to harvest area it was
assumed that average harvest equals 15 m3/ha. This is an average estimate, which is confirmed by SFD
data. Sensitivity analysis was carried out and tested the range from 5 m/ha to 25 m3/ha, but the results
generally were not sensitive to this assumption. Average standing volume equals 150 mr/ha.
2/     Project Preparation Study, Agricultural Development Project II, Georgia Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation Component, Volume 6, November 1998 (author not specified).
3/     Studies conducted by the Georgian Mountain Forest Research Institute and the Agricultural
University found that soil protection measures may result in the following aggregate yield increases over a
period of 5-10 years: fall wheat - 15%; barley -11%; sunflower - 27%; corn - 22%; grapes - 21%; and
fruits - 28%.
4/     Cities sampled were Tbilisi, Batumi, Kutaisi, Telavi and Zugdidi.
5/     Tecsult International Limited and GORBI, Tourist Preferences for the Establishment of National
Parks in Georgia, Consultant Report prepared for the World Bank, August 2000.
6/     These species include mammals like Cervus elaphus maral and Crocidura suaveolens, reptiles like
Elapha Langissima Laurenti, Vipera ammodytes Linnaeus and Testudo graeca Linnaeus, amphibians like
Pelobates syriacus and Triturus vittatus, and about 17 bird species that are now in the Red Data Book of
Georgia.
7/     Chochua, L. et al., 1999, Overall Forest Utilization Program for the Oni District, Draft, Tbilisi
8/     Siry, J. and T. Arin, 2000, Total Economic Valuation of Georgian Forests under the Current
Resource Management Regime, Mimeo. World Bank.
9/     PIU conmnunication with Bolnisi Municipality.
10/   Intergovernmental Special Report on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry (date n.d.) reports
a range of carbon sequestration rates between 2.5 - 7 tC/ha in the temperate forests of Europe and North
America. The highest values were found for young (20-50 years), fast growing coniferous plantations and
broad-leaved trees in old-field succession. (Watson, R.T. et al, Date n.d., Intergovernmental Special
Report on Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry, Section 1.3.2.2.
http://www.grida.no/climate/ipcc/land use/028.htm)
11/    Siry, J., 2000, Georgia Timber Exports Assessment based on Turkey Import Data, Mimeo. World
Bank.
12/   If auctions work well, this approach can be successful, but where auctions fail due to limited
number of buyers or collusion, problems may arise. In such a situation, increasing stumpage fees may be a
better solution. In the Central Caucasus Pilot Area export quality logs stumpage fees can be increased by
about US$5/i, as the state currently captures less than 50%/o of stumpage values. In domestic log and
fuelwood production, the state already captures more than 50% of stumpage values, and the potential for
further increasing fiscal revenues is limited. The government also needs to decide on which approach to
take in collecting fiscal revenues associated with timber production. The government can choose either
increasing timber fees or reducing taxes. This is a practical question that should be decided on the
- 66 -



efficiency of particular approaches such as cost-effectiveness and elimination of corruption and tax/fee
evasion. Currently, stumpage fees and auction premiums account for about 70% of fiscal revenues, and
with the project their share is expected to decrease to about 500/o-60%. This indicates that the current
approach prefers increasing tax collection rates while keeping stumpage fees unchanged. The tax system is
quite complex and increasing sttimpage fees while reducing taxes may constitute a more efficient approach
to fiscal revenues collection.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Years Ending
December 31
-  .i '.-IMPLEMENTATIONVERIO-
| Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5   | Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.2       3.7        4.7       3.8       3.3        3.3       0.7
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.1       0.1        0.2       0.2       0.1       0.0
Total Project Costs          1.2       3.8        4.8       4.0       3.5        3.4      0.7
Total Financing              1.2       3.8        4.8       4.0       3.5        3.4       0.7
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  1.0        2.8       3.8        2.8       2.4       2.3       0.6
Govemment                 0.2        0.9        1.0       1.2       1.1       1.1       0.1
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     1.2        3.7       4.8       4.0        3.5       3.4       0.7
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 68 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures. Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A
and Al. Consulting services, goods and works financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines. During project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated
annually. All other procurememt information, including capability of the implementing agency (procurement
assessment report of the PIU is separately submitted) and the Bank's review process is presented in Table
B and below.
Procurement responsibilities. The State Forestry Department (SFD) is the executing agency fir this
project. A project implementation unit established within the SFD as the Forest Sector Development Center
(FSDC), will be responsible for procurement, accounting, financial reporting and auditing. The FSDC will
be responsible for (i) the whole cycle of procurement of all works, goods and services under the project,
including filing/record keeping of all related operations and activities; (ii) assisting SFD to prepare an
annual work program and budget, which will be approved by the project's Supervisory Board; and (iii)
coordinating the delivery of technical assistance provided by international consultants.
An assessment of FSDC's capacity to implement the project's procurement plan was conducted in July of
2001 and revised in January of 2002. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle management,
organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement
environment and made a generd risk assessment of FSDC. With the addition of an experienced
procurement consultant, FSDC has gained in direct experience in complex procurement will be able to
establish a good and reliable system to handle the procurement cycle. However, since the incorporation of
the said consultant has occurred very recently, FSDC is rated in the high risk category, with the possibility
of revising it as procurement iniplementation progresses. FSDC procurement specialist, under the PPF, has
also received assistance from the project adviser retained under the Joint Environmental Programme (JEP)
of the EU and the World Bank, received on-the-job training from the Bank's Procurement Unit in Moscow,
and attended procurement training course in ILO (Turin, Italy). The following actions will be implemented
to further mitigate the risk: (i) tlie project launch workshop should include a comprehensive seminar on
procurement and financial management, including preparation of bidding documents for each type of
procurement method proposed in the Credit Agreement; (ii) a library including all the standard bidding
documents for relevant procurement methods should be provided to FSDC prior to project launch; and (iii)
supervision missions should include accredited procurement specialist to conduct post review of contracts
not subject to Bank's No Objeclion, provide consultation on general and specific procurement issues and
resolve pending issues.
Procurement of Works and Goods
The Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for procurement of goods and works,
including the Bank's regional documents.
Civil Works: The project will tarry out works to rehabilitate the SFD office in Tbilisi, 14 district forest
offices and university and forest protection labs, and construct nursery and seed center buildings. It will
also support reforestation and afforestation and construction and rehabilitation of forest roads. Technical
services for forest inventory and data processing, management planning and aerial photography will also be
- 69 -



funded. The following methods of procurement will be used:
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be applied for civil works contracts
expected to cost US$300,000 and above.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB procedures will be applied for civil works contracts estimated
to cost below US$300,000 and forest works contracts below US$500,000 (given that it is highly unlikely
that international firms will want to bid on forest works contracts). There will be certain specific
requirements for carrying out National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in compliance with Europe and Central
Asia (ECA) Regional standard bidding documents for procurement under both NCB and Minor Works and
applicability of the Association Guidelines. For NCB, the provisions in the Association Procurement
Guidelines will prevail over the provisions of the national procurement laws and regulations. Specifically,
National Bidding procedures are acceptable for the NCB contract financed by the Association provided
they comply with the following: Association or ECA Regional standard documentation shall be used; no
two envelope system shall be used; at least 30 days bidding time shall be allowed; national press
publication of procurement notices shall be required; public bid opening shall be held; no merit point
system of evaluation shall be adopted (award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder); no
negotiations shall be held (if absolutely necessary, only with Association's prior consultation); no
preferences shall be allowed in price or conditions to any class of bidders; contract estimates shall not be
disclosed; foreign firms shall be allowed to participate if they are interested to bid under NCB conditions;
etc. Finally, the PIU should strictly apply the Association's eligibility criteria, especially relating to State
Owned Enterprises and Parastatals. Only those firms that meet the Association's eligibility criteria under
the Guidelines will be allowed to participate. These contracts show an aggregate sum of US$8.61 million.
Small Works (SW). Works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.45 million equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully. A list of qualified contractors should be formed -and periodically updated- by FSDC by
requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and relevant infornation from domestic
contractors while advertising domestic small civil works contract opportunities.
Procurement of Goods. Equipment for forest management, protection, harvesting and road construction,
information technology, audio-visual equipment, field equipment, lab equipment, nursery and seed center
equipment, seed, vehicles, office equipment, furniture and supplies and a project financial management
system will be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding. Goods contracts estimated
to cost US$100,000 or more will be procured through ICB. International Shopping (IS), based on a
comparison of quotes from at least three suppliers from two different countries will be used for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000, and with an aggregate sum of US$0.25 million. Award through
LAPSO of the United Nations would be acceptable as an alternative to IS, and IALPSO could also be invited
as a supplier under the said IS procedures. National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each (aggregate sum: US$0.60 million), to be awarded on the basis
of three written price quotations from domestic suppliers.
Participation of Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) in procurement of goods and works. GOEs
- 70 -



willing to participate in procurernent of works and goods financed by the Association in this project should
meet the Association's eligibility criteria for state-owned and parastatal enterprises. Only those
fimns that meet the Association's eligibility criteria under the Guidelines will be allowecd to
participate. Their status has to be properly clarified by interested GOEs to FSDC before participating in
any bid under this project.
Procurement of Consultants' Services
The consultants' services financed under the loan include: design and works supervision, technical
assistance for legal and regulatoiy review, forest management planning, forest inventory, public awareness,
regional and other studies, forest: research, audit and training, etc. Selection of Consultants and their
contracts will be based on the standard documents issued by the Bank for the procurement of such services
with the minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank. Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs)
can compete in the selection process under the provisions of Bank Guidelines, provided that they have
expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications are satisfactory to both the Government
and the Bank.
Selection of firns. Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred method for selection of
firms in contracts with estimated' values above US$100,000. QCBS method will be used to select the
technical assistance needed for institutional reform and strengthening, development of an auctioning
system, a public awareness strategy and a forest information management system (FIMS), and
strengthening of forest inventory and forest management planning. Least Cost Selection Method will be
applied to procurement of contracts estimated to cost less than US$120,000 equivalent to design and
supervise civil works contracts (including infrastructure and road rehabilitation and construction), monitor
public awareness, develop a system to process inventory data, design services and promotional materials to
build public awareness (video clips/films) and undertake the project audit. Contracts estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 may be procuwed following the selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ) for
development of national standaris, TEV methodology, national strategy and policy, community forestry
program, afforestation design and nursery expertise, forest management planning, ElAs for roads,
participatory community management plans, base maps for inventory, integrated forest hazard management
plan and applied research.
Selection of Individuals. Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, individual consultants will be selected on
the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing at least 3 CVs from potential eligible
candidates. Most consultancy positions will be advertised. FSDC staff positions are also filled using this
selection method. Salaries of civil servants (as defined in Georgia's "Law on Public Service" dated October
31, 1997) are not eligible for Banlk financing.
Traiinng. Training and study tours will be carried out according to a training plan, which the FSDC will
revise annually and submnit to IDA for approval prior to implementation. The total training budget is
US$318,000.
Incremental Operating Costs. The project will finance reasonable operating costs incurred by the FSDC for
management of Project implementation. These include communications, utilities, printing and publications,
supplies, office security systems, vehicle operation and maintenance, equipment and software upgrades,
transportation and field trip expenses, bank charges, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by
the Bank.
- 71 -



Procurement of Technical Services
The Technical Services required for additional forest inventory works, with a total estimated cost of about
US$0.62 million, will be carried out using Minor Works procedures, since sufficient experience with new
forest inventory approach should be formed by the second year of the project to allow small domestic
private companies to compete for the services.
Prior Review
Goods and Works. The following contracts are subject to the Bank's prior review: (i) all ICB contracts; (ii)
all works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more; (iii) the first two contracts
(regardless of contract value) procured under NCB, IS and NS procedures and for minor civil works.
Consulting Services. With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference for consultants. Contracts for services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
for fimns and US$25,000 or more for individuals are subject to Bank's prior review. For contracts with
individuals, all terms of reference will be prior reviewed; and for contracts costing US$25,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment shall be fumished to the Bank for
its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts are subject to post review (one in 5
contracts).
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuiement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           0.96           8.61         1.53         0.00       11.10
(0.66)         (5.99)        (1.09)      (0.00)      (7.74)
2. Goods                           2.06           0.00         0.59         0.00        2.65
(1.99)         (0.00)        (0.51)      (0.00)      (2.50)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00         4.69         0.00       4.69
(Individuals and Firms,           (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.72)      (0.00)      (3.72)
International and Local,
including Audit Services)                                                         _
4. Training, Workshops and         0.00           0.00         0.46         0.00       0.46
Study Tours
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.46)      (0.00)      (0.46)
5. Incremental Operating          0.00            0.00         0.83         0.62        1.45
Costs, and Recurrent Costs'       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.26)      (0.00)      (0.26)
6. Project Preparation Facility   0.00            0.00         0.99         0.00       0.99
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.99)      (0.00)      (0.99)
Total                           3.02           8.61          9.09        0.62       21.34
(2.65)         (5.99)        (7.03)      (0.00)     (15.67)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
- 72 -



2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing the project.
** Incremental Operating Costs are as defined above. Recurrent Costs refers to the Government of Georgia's costs
for Operations and Maintenance.
*** Project Year One costs are equivalent to the total value of the PPF. And, the PPF needs to be expressed in this
table as a separate line item. Theiefore, for correctness in summation, reductions have been made to the total
amounts in the Works, Goods, Seivices, and IOC categories.
- 73 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              1.65    0.00    0.00    0.48     1.57    0.00    0.00     3.70
(1.64)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.40)  (1.45)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.49)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.53    0.00     0.53
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.51)  (0.00)   (0.51)
Total  1.65    0.00    0.00    0.48     1.57    0.53    0.00     4.23
1 (1.64)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.40)  (1.45)   (0.51)  (0.00)   (4.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 74 -



Prior review thresholds (Table IB)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                 >300 (civil works)          ICB                     9.80
>500 (forest works)
>50                   NCB
<50                    MW
2. Goods                       >100                   ICB                    2.20
>50<100                  IS
<50                    NS
DC             _    _     _    _
3. Services                   >100                   QCBS                    1.8
<100                   LCS
CQ
4. Training, Workshops                                N/A
and Study Tours       _
5. Incremental                                        N/A
Operating Costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$13.8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for po.st-review/audits)
Risk assessment and thresholds for procurement methods and prior review can be revised as
impleTnentation advances.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 75 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will follow normal Bank procedures and will be made against the categories of expenditures
indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed project area expected to be disbursed over a period of
seven years (including the PPF year). The anticipated completion date is December 31, 2008, and the
closing date is June 30, 2009.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
I (a). Works for Parts A, B and C. l of   3.20                         70%
the Project
I(b). Works for Part C.2 of the Project*  4.08                         70%
2. Goods                                   2.35              100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally**
3. Consultants' Services, including audit  3.69         80% for local finns and individuals; 90%
costs                                                    for international finns and i; 100% for
eligible social charges***
4. Training, workshops, and study tours    0.43                        100%
5. Incremental Operating Costs             0.23         80% until June 30, 2003; 70% until June
30, 2004; 60% until June 30, 2005; 50%
until June 30, 2006; and 40% thereafter.
6. Refunding of Project Preparation        0.99          Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02(b)
Advance                                                  of the Development Credit Agreement.
7. Unallocated                             0.70
Total Project Costs                       15.67
Total                                     15.67
Notes: * Subcategory 1(b) is separated for the purpose of disbursement condition to be applied to forest
works (see PAD Sections C.2 and G).
**Ex-factory expenditures are those representing the cost of goods manufactured within the territory of the
borrower and representing the price at the factory gate, excluding manufacturing taxes, excise duties or
other taxes.
*** The term "eligible social charges" is defined in the Credit Agreement as the employers' contribution to
social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on the employment contracts with citizens of the
Borrower.
Disbursement percentages have been calculated based on inclusion of identifiable locally-levied
taxes/duties. Their levels (as laid out in the Credit Agreement) were set up to ensure not only the exclusion
of taxes and duties from the Association's financing, but also to provide for the Borrower's net
contribution to project costs (net of taxes) at the level above 10%. The disbursement percentages shall be
applied to the total, tax-inclusive amount indicated on each invoiced expenditure. This approach, based on
an average disbursement percentage, will reasonably ensure that on the whole, for a given category,
taxes/duties are not financed.
- 76 -



Flow of Funds (see chart below)
FSDC will not have petty cash for cash payment for minor items. Such minor cash expenditures will be
made by the employees of FSDC out of their own money, following the rules set out in the Operational
Manual for expenditures approval and submission of expenditures reports (including supporting
documents). Upon receipt of all necessary documentation from the employees, FSDC will transfer the
expended amount of cash to the bank accounts of the employees.
Credit Funds                                           Credit Funds
Direct Payment                                       Reimbursement to SA
WA
s r       I~~~~nvoii:es I
Consultants/                            PMU
Contractors
*                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Requestfo
Payment    Payment
IF --   fl  .  _ .  Irequest          request
l ~~~~-. Go,vernniedt-, .
Payment in Local Currency
l     Co-Financing
Account                          ,
Paymcint in USD           .                              Special
4                                                             (     Account
Payment in Local Currency
________________________________ .__________________ Local Currency
_                                     f                         Transit.Account
.............................  ...... .......... .... ... ... . .... ............... .. .... .....
Payment for minor items for I'MUs op act
Personal account of
PMUs authorized    ---
staff member
Flow of funds           Flow of data
- 77 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). A move to FMR-based disbursements will be made at the mutual agreement of the
Government and the Bank, and will be considered once FSDC is familiar with the project's monitoring
aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and reliable project management information.
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$100,000 each; (b) contracts for works
less than US$300,000 each; and (c) contracts for consulting finns costing less than US$100,000
equivalent; (d) contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$25,000 equivalent; (e) contracts
for training; and (f) all incremental operating costs.
Special account:
During implementation of the Japanese grant and the PPF, the Government opened Special Accounts in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. A project (lari) account for counterpart funding was also opened.
These accounts were managed by the FSDC. These arrangements were assessed by the Bank to have been
satisfactory and therefore they will remain in place during project implementation. The SA and the project
account will be audited annually and the results made available to the Bank.
The Authorized Allocation will be equal to an amount equivalent to US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
1,000,000.
Replenishment applications should be submitted every month.  These applications would be fully
documented, except in the case where disbursements on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) or
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are penmitted, and would be supported by a reconciliation statement
and bank statements. Related documentation in support of SOEs or FMRs should be retained by FSDC for
at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which disbursement was made.
These documents would be available for review by the auditors and the Bank staff.
As is the agreed practice on projects in Georgia, an amount not exceeding 30 days of budgeted expenditures
will be converted from SA funds and deposited into the local currency transaction account. Payments from
the local currency transaction account may cover only the eligible percentage for IDA financing. Any
losses due to depreciation or foreign exchange loss on currency conversions/re-conversions are to be bome
by the borrower. This local currency transaction account is also subject to review by the independent
auditors as part of their review/opinion on the special account.
Project Account
The amount of initial deposit to the Project Account shall be US$50,000. This is the amount required to
meet the estimated minimum level for counterpart funding needed for the first quarter of Project
implementation. The FSDC shall be responsible for providing to the Ministry of Finance the Project's
annual budgets, satisfactory to the Association, by August I of the preceding year. Requests for
replenishment of the Project Account shall be submitted by the FSDC to the Ministry of Finance with an
- 78 -



advance notice of at least 30 days.
Financial management:
Countrv Issues
In 2000, the Association conducted a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) and a Country
Portfolio Financial Management Review (CPFMR) of all projects currently under supervision in Georgia
and concluded that project financial management capacity is being progressively developed, inter alia, as a
result of reforms in accounting and auditing and the creation of an independent accounting profession in
Georgia. However, systematic capacity building in project financial management is needed if the Georgia
portfolio of IDA-financed projects is to be implemented successfully.
The main risks identified for financial management arrangements for all projects in the Georgia portfolio
are as follows:
(i) Capacity of staff. Giver, the high demand for skilled financial professionals in Georgia, most of the
newly-created project implementation units reported difficulties in recruitment of skilled accountants.
However, the FSDC alreacy employs financial staff who have gained some financial management
experience during the implementation of the PPF.
(ii) Financial management systems. Reviews of audit reports for projects in the Georgia portfolio show
that PIUs do not pay enough attention to basic internal control procedures such as (i) carrying out and
properly documenting periodic cash counts; (ii) conducting periodic asset counts; (iii) maintaining
adequate inventory of assets, and (iv) conducting periodic and systematic reconciliation of project
records with Bank records. Although most of the PIUs have operational manuals, during project
implementation, these manuals are usually not much in use. Most of the accounting software packages
used in Georgia are not supported by adequate access to technical support and information technology
(IT) hotlines. Accounting piograms such as Scala, American Fundware and ORIS are the exception. It
should be noted, however, that a review of the ORIS accounting software conducted by the Bank
discovered that the software has features permitting to delete accounting transactions. The software
developer was requested to delete this feature in software packages used by the Bank-financed projects.
(iii) Banking Arrangements / Special Account. The banking sector in Georgia is relatively weak. To
mitigate the risk of losses, iin June 1999 the World Bank, Ministry of Finance, and National Bank of
Georgia agreed on criteria tD guide the selection of banks to hold project accounts, among which was
that the choice of banks would be restricted to those banks with CAMEL I or CAMEL 2 rating.
Accounting and auditing issue,m for Georgia
A Law "On Regulation of Accounting and Reporting", prepared by the Georgian Federation of
Professional Accountants and Auditors (GFPAA) and supported by the Finance and Budget Committee
(FBC) of the Parliament was approved in February 1999. Under the Law, responsibilities for accounting
services in the public and private sector are separated, and International Accounting Standards (IAS) are
introduced for enterprise accounting and reporting as was promoted by the 1995 Law "On Entrepreneurs".
The conversion of enterprises :o IAS was envisaged for two years (2000-2001) in two phases. The ftrst
phase included conversion to IAS of banks and joint-stock companies whose shares are publicly traded,
the second phase - limited liability companies, joint ventures and cooperatives. Implementation of IAS
was overseen by the Georgia Accounting Standards Commission (GASC).
The Ministry of Revenue has accepted the use of IAS as the basis for corporate tax reporting purposes
- 79 -



and has adopted a tax reconciliation form that reconciles the net profit per LAS to the taxable profit which
is then used in the calculation of a company's tax liability.
A Law on Audit Activities in Georgia was passed in 1995, and it was updated and amended in 1997 and
1999. It defines rights and obligations of auditors, auditees and owners and sets out the legal basis for
business auditing. Only auditors licensed by the Audit Council of the Parliament of Georgia (ACPG) are
allowed to carry out audits. According to Law, starting on January 1, 2000, all audits of legal entities in
Georgia are to be carried out in accordance with the Intemational Standards on Auditing (ISA).
The remaining important weakness is the low level of liability assumed by auditors. The maximum
liability of an auditing company in any particular year is limnited to the annual auditing fee paid that year
by any particular client. In addition, the Audit Council suffers from insufficient authority since the
admninistrative sanctions available to the Council include withdrawing the auditor's license, but importantly
do not include the imposition of substantial fines.
Strenaths and Weaknesses
A Strengths/Weaknesses section will not be included in this Annex, as these issues are included in the
Financial Management Capacity Assessment (available in the project files) and in Section F of the main
text.
Implementing Entitv
The project's implementation arrangements have been approved by Presidential Decree, dated October 29,
2000. The project's main implementing agency is the State Forestry Department. Its staff at central and
district levels are responsible for the overall implementation of the Project and coordination and monitoring
of its technical aspects. The Ministry of Finance (MoF) is responsible for monitoring of the financial
aspects of the Credit. The Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural Resources (MEPNR) is
responsible for the monitoring of the environmental aspects of the Project in accordance with the Georgian
environmental legislation. The project is supervised by an inter-agency Supervisory Board, which is
chaired by a member of Parliament and comprised of representatives from key ministries/departments
(Economy, Finance, Environment, Agriculture, Forestry, Land Management, Protected Areas), the
presidential administration, academia and the NGO conumunity. The Supervisory Board meets at least
every 3 months to ensure strategic oversight, interagency coordination and transparency of the Project. It
also approves the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Operational Manual and any changes thereto.
In order to assure coordination with the Protected Areas Development Project (PADP), its membership is
substantially the same as that of the PADP Project Steering Committee.
The project management unit is the Forest Sector Development Center of Georgia (FSDC) - founded by
Presidential Decree as a 'legal body of civil law' with overall responsibility for managing implementation of
project components, procurement, financial management of the project, including managing the project's
Special Account, maintaining all financial documentation and producing financial information, and also
administration, reporting and monitoring. The FSDC Charter as well as the membership of its Supervisory
Board are approved by the Presidential Order # 1172 of October 29, 2000.
More specifically, FSDC will be responsible for:
*   Carrying out the precise  assessment of the activities related the project preparation and
implementation;
* Procuring goods and services in accordance with an agreed procurement plan, World Bank
procurement procedures and timetables;
- 80 -



*   Operating financial management system acceptable for the Bank;
*   Organizing annual audits of project accounts and financial records in accordance with the Bank
requirements;
*   Reporting to the Bank, the Supervisory Board, State Department of Forest Management and the
Ministry of Finance of (leorgia according their requirements for report fonnats and taming;
*   Periodically preparing reports on Project preparation and implementation, for discussing them at
the Supervisory Board nmeeting;
*   Maintaining full and accurate records of all activities related to the preparation and implementation
of the Project and making them available upon request to duly authorized officials in accordance
with the legislation and procedures agreed between Georgia and the World Bank.
Staffing
Staff of the FSDC consists of 7 core members:
1.     Director,
2.     Technical Manager,
3.     Financial Manager,
4.     Procurement specialist,
5.     Accountant,
6.     Operational Assistant,
7.     Secretary-translator).
The financial unit consists of the financial manager and the accountant.
Mrs. Nana Nabakhteveli, the Financial Manager, has been educated and trained in Georgia and visited
several debt management related seminars and courses in Switzerland (1997, 1998) and Israel (1997). She
also has relevant financial management experience with UNDP project "Strengthening the Debt
Management Capacity of the Government of Georgia" (1999-2000) and the debt-management experience in
the position of Deputy Director of External Public Debt Department, Ministry of Finance of Georgia (1998
- 1999). Her work in the posilion of the Financial Manager for the Forests Development Project PIU
started in January 2001.
Mrs. Lavra Nachkebia, the Accountant, has been educated and trained in Georgia and prior to starting
work in the Forests Development Project PIU she worked for over ten years in the position of the Head of
registrations and accounts administration of the State Department of Forest Management.
FinancialManacer's responsibilities include:
*   Developing a fully documented and operational financial management system satisfactory to the
World Bank which includes proper accounting procedures and internal controls to ensure that the
assets of the Project are properly safeguarded;
* Management of the daily financial activity of the Project, maintenance of the financial management
system, and solution of any technical problems that may arise with the financial management
system;
*   Liaison and coordination with the Ministry of Finance, Tax Inspection, Customs and other related
governmental bodies and budgetary agencies in Georgia, as well as with banks holding Project
accounts;
*   Monitoring the management of Special Accounts and withdrawal applications by the FSDC
Accountant;
*   Ensuring the timely sulbmission of withdrawal applications including for the Special Account
replenishment for the Project Preparation Grant (Japanese grant), Project Preparation Advance
- 81 -



(PPF) and, subsequently, the IDA Credit;
* Review and verification of all requests for payments for the sub-projects, contractors and
consultants;
* Review and verification of all requests for advance or other payments for the FSDC and/or other
operational purposes;
* Ensuring and maintenance of the accuracy of financial information during Project preparation and
implementation;
* Provision of financial information for the preparation of FSDC annual budgets and financial
reports;
* Facilitation of verification of Project reports by auditors;
*   Timely preparation and submission of audit reports where required by independent auditors;
* Liaison closely with World Bank personnel and any other Project financiers in the establishment
and operation of the Project financial management system;
* Assistance to the Project Director in the short and long term financial planning of the FSDC;
* Making all expenditures and disbursements upon obtaining approval of the Project Director;
*   Operation of the bank accounts and updating the Project Director on the status of Project accounts
and the financial standing of the banks in which the bank accounts are held;
* Maintenance of a watching brief and keeping updated on local taxation, banking and other
pertinent regulations affecting the financial activities of the FSDC;
* Preparation in conjunction with the Project Director of all monthly and annual budget and financial
reports of the FSDC for presentation to the World Bank and Government of Georgia;
* Maintenance, supervision and enforcement of the financial and intemal control procedures;
* Preparation in conjunction with the Project Director and FSDC staff of the financial elements for
the Project Implementation Plan;
* Preparation of the draft financial reports and statements and verification of acceptability with the
World Bank.
* Monitoring the recruitment and training of subordinate accountants;
* Monitoring the development of the audit terms of reference, the selection and engagement of the
auditor, and the completion of the audits on a timely basis.
The Accountant's responsibilities are the following:
*   Work under the direct supervision of the Financial Manager and assistance to him/her to fulfill
his/her responsibilities in respect of the financial management of the Project;
*   Maintenance of the Project's accounting books and records, including any general ledger and
subsidiary ledgers, and ensuring that there is proper and adequate documentation to support all of
the Project's transactions;
* Preparation of the replenishment requests for World Bank and other requests as may be required to
obtain other Project funding;
* Preparation of the bank transfer statements and payment documentation for funds held at the
bank(s) used by the Project, including any bank(s) used for the Project's World Bank Special
Account(s);
* Preparation in conjunction with the Financial Manager of the financial management reports of the
Project as required by the World Bank and the Government of Georgia;
* Cooperation with the auditor of the Project to ensure that the auditing requirements of the Project
are satisfied as required by the World Bank and the Government of Georgia.
- 82 -



Accounting' Policies and Procedures
The Project will use accrual base accounting for accounting and reporting purposes. This approach is
relevant to both World Bank and local taxation authorities requirements.
Accounting policies and procedures are described in detail in the FSDS's Operational Manual, and are in
compliance with the World Bank minimum requirements.
Intemal Audit
FSDC has no intemal audit function. At this time the FSDC has an acceptable draft Operational Manual,
although the documentation of intemal controls procedures in the Operational Manual was minimal, and
required further refinement. The upgraded Operational Manual was also approved by the Supervisory
Board in May 2002.
During project supervision, the Association will periodically review the financial management sections of
the Operational Manual to ensure that it is being adhered to and is up-to-date.
Extemal Audit
Annual audits will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Association and
procured by the FSDC through the Least-Cost Selection process.
It should be noted that the audit firms pre-qualification exercise is currently in process in Hub-I
(Hub-North) countries (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Republic of
Belarus, Russian Federation, Ukraine and Uzbekistan). As a result of such exercise, the list of audit firms
eligible to conduct audits of World Bank projects in Hub-l countries is produced (and presented in the
Intranet website). The PIUs can select any of the pre-qualified firms included in the list. The review of
audit firms operating in Georgia is planned for May 2002 (as part of CFAA exercise), therefore, by the
time project implementation starts, the list of such fimis will already be available.
It should also be noted that standardized audit TOR has been recently adopted for all Hub-1 (Hub-North)
countries, which should be used starting from fiscal year 2002, as the basis for audit TOR prepared for
each individual project, including the Georgia Forests Development Project, subject to the necessary
modifications.
Audited project financial statements will be provided to the Association within six months of the end of
each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The cost of the audit will be financed from the
proceeds of the credit.
Audit Reports
Annual financial statements will ibe audited each fiscal year in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing and will include:
1. Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds showing the World Bank and counterpart funds (including
contributions in kind) separately as of the end of each fiscal year;
2. Summary of Uses of Funds by Project Activities (Statement of Expenditure Detail) as of the end of
each fiscal year
3. Balance Sheet as at the end of each fiscal year (separate audit opinion required for items 1, 2 and 3);
4. SOE withdrawal schedule for each fiscal year (separate audit opinion required);
5. Special Account statement for each fiscal year (separate audit opinion required).
- 83 -



Reporting and Monitoring
The PIU will monitor progress against agreed performance indicators specified in the PAD.
Credit funds will initially be disbursed on the basis of established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), and a move to report-based disbursements will be considered once the FSDC is
familiar with the project's monitoring aspects and is considered able to produce sufficiently timely and
reliable reports.
The PIU would prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review.
The mid-term report will include detailed description of activities financed by the project, agreed upon by
the parties concerned, and include summaries of progress by contract.
The PIU, with guidance from the Bank, would also prepare and submit an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) to the IDA within six months of the closing date of the IDA credit. Included in the ICR
would be an assessment of the execution of the project, its costs and benefits, the performance of the
Borrower, PIU, the Bank and other agencies involved in the project regarding their respective obligations
and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
The financial management arrangements in the project will be subject to annual supervision reviews by the
relevant World Bank FMS. Such reviews are to take place at any time period between the receipt of audit
report (1 July) and the year end (31 December). As a result of such reviews, supervision reports will be
prepared. See also "Supervision Plan" section in the end of the present report.
Format of Financial Statements
It has been agreed at credit negotiations that the project will produce Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs).
The format of FMRs will comply with the format of the following Project Management Reports laid out in
the World Bank Project Financial Management Manual, exposure draft of February 1999, for Accrual
Model: PMR I-A "Project sources and uses of funds", PMR 1-B "Uses of funds by project activity", PMR
1-C "Project balance Sheet", PMR l-D "Project cash withdrawals (disbursement)" and PMR 1-E "Special
Account Statement" The accounting software of FSDC (ORIS FM) has already been modified to produce
FMRs in such formats.
The FSDC will start producing a full set of FMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the
project. The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the
incurrence of the first expenditure under the project through the end of such first calendar quarter;
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furmished to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
Information Systems
The PIU has already established an accounting system using a local software package and has gained
substantial experience using it. The package has been modified for it to be able to produce the required
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
The selected Financial Management software ORIS FM consists of two modules: (1) ORIS Accounting for
recording and analysis of accounting transactions; and (2) ORIS Manager - multifunctional built in data
base for analysis and processing information, including contract registers, procurement process monitoring
and budgeting infornation.
- 84 -



ORIS FM:
* has good internal controls, is auditable and will provide transparency;
*   has a good track record :for reliability, will be installed on time, will be within budget, and is well
supported technically;
*   can provide data: for periodic reporting (monthly, quarterly, annual etc.); by unit or activity; by
funding source and expenditure categories; by actual and budget for the period and accumulated to
date; to show variance tetween actual and budget/plan for period, accumulated for year, and to
date;
*   has the capability to workc in the language of the borrower, in addition to English; and
*   has the ability to work in the currency of the borrower, in addition to that of the Special Account
(SA).
Action Plan
Status of Action Plan fcr Improvement of Financial Management Capacity of the FSDC
(as of May 15, 2002)
No Action                                                       Status   Comments
Action plan established by the Bank during the Financial Management
Capacity Review update in February 2002
1  Accounting and reporting system needs to be further developed and its  done
installation/testing finalized
2  The PCU currently has no budgeting system in place. The budgeting  done
system must be developed and properly reflected in ORIS, and all
I relevant procedures documented in the Operational Manual
3  The current draft of the Operat ional Manual contains some guidelines  done
on Internal Controls (included in chapter 5.5 "Accounting & Financial
Reporting and Audit"), however, it needs significant further expansion
4  Clear financial management reporting responsibilities need to be  done
defined and documented in the Operational Manual. They should
specify what types reports are to be prepared, the periodicity of
preparation, who are responsible for the preparation of such reports,
and, finally, who are the end users of such reports
Action plan established by the Bank during the initial Financial
Management Capacity Review
I  Obtain the Bank's consent to sole-source the selection of the accounting  done
software system, Otis, which is being successfully used by the PADP
2  Obtain the necessary office equipment, including computers and related done
hardware, to install and operate the Oris accounting software system
3  Install the Oris accounting software system and train the FSDC  done
accounting staff to use it
4  Obtain a copy of PADP audit                                           Standard audit TOR adopted
terms of reference                                          done     in March 2002 for all HUB-I
countries will be used for the
project, modilied as necessary
for all Georgian projects in
general and for Forestry
project in particular.
5  Develop a terrns of reference and short-list of auditors for the annual  done  short-list of auditors
audit of the project                                                 prepared.
- 85 -



Supervision Plan
World Bank FMS/FMO would take part in the joint supervision missions together with the main project
team and/or annual financial management supervision missions undertaken exclusively by FM staff, in
order to monitor the financial management progress of the FSDC and ensure compliance with financial
management covenants.
The former type of reviews (joint reviews) are to take place at the discretion of the Task Team Leader.
It should be additionally noted, that, as a recent development in the financial management work in the
Bank, financial management ratings were introduced to the Project Status Report (PSR), aimed at
providing a regular and structured means to rate financial management performance and continuing
appropriateness of the financial management arrangements of projects under implementation. As such, it
reflects an extension of the FM assessment carried our during project preparation. PSR ratings are due
twice a year: by the end of June and by the end of December.
The latter type of reviews (FM reviews) are to take place at any time period between the receipt of audit
report (1 July) and the year end (31 December). As a result of such reviews, supervision reports will be
prepared. See also "Reporting and Monitoring" section in the end of the present report.
- 86 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     28                           36
First Bank mission (identification)            06/15/1998                   06/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    02/15/2001                   06/10/2001
Negotiations                                   02/25/2002                  04/23/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/2002                   10/31/2002
Prepared by:
Georgian State Department of Forest Management (SFD) and Georgian Forest Sector Developrnent Center
(FSDC).
Preparation assistance:
FAO - project identification and preparation (1998-1999); ERM (funded by EU/Tacis) - detailed project
description and project implementation planning.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
1. Andrey Kushlin                 Sr. Forestry Specialist, Task Team Leader
2. Phillip Brylski                Sr. Biodiversity Specialist
3. Marjory-Anne Bromhead          Sector Manager, Lead Natural Resource Economist
4. Tijen Arin                     Economist
5. Charis Wuerffel                Operations Analyst
6. David Bontempo                 Operations Analyst
7. James Douglas                  Peer Reviewer, Lead Operations Officer
8. Janis Bernstein                Sr. Social Scientist
9. Darejan Kapanadze              Environmental Specialist, Operations Officer
10. Kerstin Canby                Enviromnental Assessment Specialist
I1. Jose Martinez                Procurement Specialist
12. Ranjan Ganguli                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
13. Ekaterina Arsenyeva          Financial Management Officer
14. Friedrich Peloschek          Lead Counsel
15. John Ogallo                  Disbursement Specialist
16. Zeina Samara                 Disbursement Analyst
- 87 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Detailed Project Cost Tables
2. Detailed Project Procurement Plan
3. Detailed Project Implementation Schedules
4. Operational Manual (version May 15, 2002)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Georgia Country Portfolio Financial Management Review, 2000
2. FSDC Financial Management Capacity Assessment, May 2002 (update)
3. FSDC Procurement Capacity Assessment, July 2001
C. Other
1. Georgian Forest Sector Strategy, 1996
2. Georgia Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, 1999.
3. FAO/CP Forest Sector Development Program - Preparation Report, March 1999.
4. Forest Code of Georgia, June 1999.
5. Overall Forest Utilization Program for Oni District (Central Caucasus Pilot Area), April 2000.
6. Georgia Forests Development Project - Social Assessment, May 2000.
7. Georgia Timber Exports Assessment Based on Turkey Import Data, July 2000.
8. Total Economic Valuation of Georgian Forests under Current Forest Management Regime, August
2000.
9. Options for Strategic Involvement in the Georgian Forest Sector, September 2000.
10. Decree of the President of Georgia on Establishment of the Forest Sector Development Center, October
2000.
11. Landscape-Ecological Basis for Overall Forest Land Use Zoning in Oni District (Central Caucasus
Pilot Area), December 2000.
12. Information on Measures Taken to Eradicate Corrupt and Illegal Activities in Forestry (SFD),
December 2000.
13. Main Principles of Forest Policy Reforms in Georgia (Govermnent's draft), June 2001.
14. Georgia Forests Development Project - Sectoral Environmental Assessment, June 2001.
15. Georgia Forests Development Project - Economic and Fiscal Impact Analysis, December 2001.
16. Carbon Sequestration through Afforestation and Reforestation in Georgia, January 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P054886       2001 ELEC MRKT SUPPORT                                 0.00     27.37                 0.00      0.00      26.69      0.00      0 00
P055068       2001 IRR/DRAIN REHAB (APL #1)                          0.00     27.00                 0.00      0.00      24 88      -0,45     0.00
P055173       2001 EDUC I (APL)                                      0,00     25 90                 0.00      0.00      23.40      2.31      0 00
P072394       2001 ENERGY TRANSrT INST BLDG                          0,00      9.63                 0.00      0.00       9 09     -0.48      000
P048791       2001 PROTAREASDEV(GEF)                                 0.00      0.00                 8.70      0.00       871i      063       000
P040556       2000 ROADS                                             0.00     4000                  000       0.00      29992     -7.14      0.00
P064091       2000 AGRIC RES EXTTRG (GEF)                            0.00      0.00                 2.48      0.00       216       060       000
P065715       2000 AGRRESEXT&TRG                                     0.00      7.60                 0.00      0.00       6.37      343       000
P060009       1999 INTGD COASTAL MGMT(GEF)                           0.00      0.00                 130       0.00       1.14      060       0.08
P057813        1999 JUDICIAL REFORM                                  0.00     13.40                 0.00      0.00       6.9(     -562        0 00
P056514        1999 TRANS MINRESTRICT                                0.00      2.30                 0.00      0.00       134       1.33      000
P050911        1999 INTG COASTAL MGT                                 000       4.40                 1.30      0.00       3.4S      2.94      -0 03
P008416        1999 ENTREHAB                                         0.00      1500                 00        0.00       8.20      6.44       000
P052153       1999 SAC 3                                             0.00     60.00                 0.00      0.00      18.57     42.66       0 00
P050910        1998 MUN DEV                                          0 00     20.90                 0.00      0.00       3 24      4 81       0.00
P039929       1998 SIF                                               0.00     20.00                 0.00      0.00       1.11      195        0.00
P055573       1998 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                 0.00      449                  0o00      000        0.60      0,60      000
P008415       1997 AGRIC DEVT                                        0.00     15.00                 0.00      0.00       1.23      2.27       0 00
P008414        1996 HEALTH                                           0.00     14.00                 0.00      0.00       4 02      2 51       2.22
Total:       0.00      306.99             1378         0.00      181 08     59.39      2.26
- 89 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000               Bank of Georgia               3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.96   0.00     0.00    0.00
Georgia G&MW Co.              0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18     0.00    0.00
1997/00            Georgia M-F Bank              0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00
1999/01            Ksani                         6.32    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                      3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998/02            TbilComBank                   0.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.57    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               Telasi                       30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000
Total Portfolio:        42.89    2.97    0.00    0.00    33.03    2.97    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002               Georgia M-F Bkll                 6.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        6.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central      Low-
Georgla      Asia    income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        5.5       475     2,459                 Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    610      2,010       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       3 3       956     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         0.1       0 1       1.9
Labor force (%)                                        0.3       0.6       2 4     GNI                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1994-00)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national povWrly line)   11
Urban population (% of total population)               61         67        32
Life exDoctancv at birth (Years)                       73         69        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                15        21        77
Child malnutrition (I% of children under 5)              3                               Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% ofpopulation)     76        90        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                               3        38
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age Dopulation)   88        100        96            -    eorgia
Male                                                 89        101       102            ---   Low-income group
Female                                               88         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              .        .       2 8       3.0
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                                   14.6      14.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                               26.3      37.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                       -4.3      5.6
Gross national savinos/GDP                                       6.4      10.2
Current account balance/GDP                                      -8.3     -4 3     Domestic                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP                                            1.8       1.6     savings
Total debUGDP                                                   60.1      53 4
Total debt servicelexgorts                                      13.1      10.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                       42.9      41 3
Present value of debt/exports                                  170.2     146.2
Indebtedness
1980-10  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           5.6      3.0       1.8       3.4                   Georgia
GDP per capita                                5.4      3.0       17        3 3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                10.3     -3.5       9.9       4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth ot Investment and GDP (%)
I(% of GDP)                                                                        400T
Agriculture                                                     29.2      23.7     30o
Industry                                                        13.0      13.9     20
Manufacturing                                                   7.6       7.5    255
Services                                                        57.8      62.4       o
Private consumption                                             89.6      81.8     iox     as    as   97   Da    99   00
General govemment consumptlon                                   14.7      12.6                     GDI       C  -GDP
Imports of goods and services                                   45.3      46.6
(average annual growth)                   1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                            0.5       45        -7.1    so                 A
Industry                                               5.1       3.7       5.2     a0
Manufacturing.                                       4.2        3.0       3.0    20
Services                                               9.1       1.7       5.5
Private consumption                                    6.3      10.0     -14.1      o      0          .1   va   a'      DO
General govemment consumption                          3.5      -4.5     -19.3     20
Gross domestic investment                             15.0     -39.2       3.3                   Exports     e  Imports
Imoorts of goods and services                         10.7     -14.2       5.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In tht country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-91-



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000
Domes tc pricos                                                                 I1o
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                                191       4.0    150
Implicit GDP deflator                                         9.2       3.2    10 
Govemment finance                                                               so
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                               15.4     15.3            95    9s   97    98    99
Current budget balance                                        -4 6     -3.0                 GDP deflator    RCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                       -6.7     -4 1
TRADE
1980     1990     1909      2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                6,304      477      645     1500
Black metal                                                  101      179
Tea                                        ..        .        34       46      00
Manufactures                                                249       260
Total imports (cif)                                5,961     1,022    1.006
Food                                               899       153      141      50   _
Fuel and energy                                    396       172      176
Capital goods                                      254       428      445       o     I l
94  96    9o   97  99   99   5
Export pnce index (1994=100)                  ..       .      111      121
Import price index (1994=100)                                  97      102                 *Exporis       imports
Terms of trade (1994=100)                                     115      120
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1980    1990      199      2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                 739     1,142     0
Imports of goods and services                                1,269    1,412              m   m
Resoure balance                                              -530      -270     10*     -
Net insome                                                    119       35      s
Net current transfers                                         180      106     -20-
Current account balance                                      -231     -129     -30
FinancAng items (net)                                         222      133
Changes in net reserves                                        10       -3    -40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                  .            2 0      2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  ComposIIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                         1,685    1,617
IBRD                                        .F3..             0        0
IDA                                                         359      347
8:347
Total debtservice                                             110       85
IBRO                                                          0        0
IDA                                                           2        3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                              66       48        E 885
Offidal creditors                                            77      -28
Private creditors                                            17        0
Foreign direct investment                                    62      153
Portfolio equity                                              0        0                           D 83
World Bank program
Commitments                                                 115       48     A- IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                                58       18     B-IDA    D-OOtherimurdtateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                                          0        0        IMF                     G - Short-=
Net flowvs                                                   58       18
Interest payments                                             2        3
Net transfers                                                56       15
Development Economics                                                                                          9/24/01
-92 -



Additional
Annex 1 1
Summary Social Assessment and Public Participation Plan
(including Social Development Outcomes and Monitoring Indicators)
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
1.     As part of the preparation of the GFDP, the Georgian Forestry Development Fund acting on behalf
of the GOG, with the assistance of a project preparation grant received from the Government of Japan
through the World Bank, hired Georgian Opinion Research Business International (GORBI) to carry out an
independent Social Assessment (SA) of the proposed project under the general direction of a World Bank
senior social scientist This annex presents the summary of findings of this assessment and their implications
for project design and implementation. The full report, complete with tables, illustrations and attachments,
was published in Georgian and English languages and publicly discussed in June 2000.
Social Assessment Objectives anid Methodology
2.     The main objective of the SA is to ensure that the GFDP contributes to poverty alleviation,
enhances inclusion, increases social capital, builds ownership by key stakeholders, eliminates or least
mitigates any adverse social impacts that may result from the project, establishes a basis for social
monitoring and evaluation. Its specific objectives are to: identify important stakeholders in the forest sector,
clarify their interests, and examine the relationships between stakeholder groups; assess the consequences of
stakeholder interests and relationshtips on sustainable forest management; recommend changes that could be
made to re-direct the funds and attention of various stakeholders to promote sustainable practices;
recommend means for raising public awareness about the need for improved forest management; establish
an appropriate framework for ensuring appropriate levels of public participation related to sustainable
forestry and improved forest management; and identifying social development outcomes, indicators, and
mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation during project implementation.
3.     The SA team applied a combination of quantitative and qualitative SA methods, including a survey
of 600 households; 10 focus group discussions in Oni and Tsageri (including one group of NGO
representatives, two groups composed entirely of women, and two groups composed entirely of men, one
group of employees of state and education institutes, and others composed of men and women of various
ages and professions); 75 semi-structured interviews of government officials, academicians,
environmentalists, scientists, busiiiess people, foresters and forest managers, and NGO representatives;
in-situ observation, and a review of secondary sources of information. These methods were implemented in
the Georgian Central Caucasus provinces of Racha (Oni and Ambrolauri Districts), Svaneti (Lentekhi
District) and Lechkhumi (Tsageri District).
Key Findings
4.     The following present the rnain findings of the SA. They address general socioeconomic conditions,
main stakeholders, important social development issues, institutional and organizational dimensions,
implications for project design and implementation, and recommendations for social development outcomes,
indicators, and means for project monitoring and evaluating project performance in the course of project
implementation.
-93 -



Socioeconomic Conditions
5.     Many people in all four areas studied suffer significant shortfalls in income, particularly in  Oni,
Ambrolauri and Lentekhi, where the majority do not have enough income to feed and clothe themselves.
Among the sample, about 25 percent cannot afford to buy either food or clothes (the poorest); their monthly
expenditures range from nine to 55 laris (US$5 - 29) a month and average 32 laris (US$17). The next
economic segment, those that can afford to buy foot but often cannot buy clothes (the middle poor),
comprises another 25 percent of the population. The monthly expenditures of this group range from 55 to
145 laris (US$29 - 76) and average 100 laris (US$52). Households that are able to buy both food and
clothes (the least poor) represent the remainder of the sample. Their monthly expenditures range from 145 -
235 laris (US$76 - $123) and average 190 laris (US$99). The monthly median income is about 120 laris
(US$63) and the monthly median expenditure is about 162 laris (US$85).
6.     With regard to sources of income, most families depend less on forest-related activities than any
other occupation except industry-building. Tsageri depends more on forests for work than the other
provinces, but trade, consumer services, and socially-related services are still more important. Oni and
Lentekhi have the greatest percentage of households engaged in agricultural-related activities (nearly 80
percent and 63 percent, respectively). In contrast, Ambrolauri and Tsageri have more than 75 percent of
their residents employed in non-agricultural and non-forestry-related work.  Households in Ambrolauri
receive about 50 percent of their income from cultivation, livestock, or forest-related items such as wood.
Tsageri households are more entrepreneurial; they receive about one third of their income from agriculture
and forestry activities, but also earn about 28 percent from trading. Lentekhi households fall between
Tsageri and Ambrolauri in terms of trading income and income from agricultural and forestry-related
activities. These data indicate that households in each province have different interests and, therefore, are
likely to act differently various program proposals.
7.     The social safety net appears to be both very important yet tentative to households.
Income from relatives and government programs (pensions, social safety, etc.) account for
between 21 percent and 42 percent of an average household's income, depending on the locale.
Social safety income and remittances are more important to the average household than
forestry-related income and trading in most cases. Households in the study areas own their own
homes, which provide some stability as families struggle to obtain other basic necessities.
Main Stakeholders and Potential Conflicts
8.     Four key stakeholders will affect the planning, implementation, and monitoring of the GFDP - the
general population, forest management districts (leskhozes), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and
government agencies associated with forest sector management (see table 1).
9.     General Population. This group comprises three distinct economic groups with differing interests:
(a) the poorest households who cannot afford to purchase either food or clothes, the "middle poor" who can
afford to buy food but not clothes, and the "least poor" who can afford with difficulty to buy both food and
clothes (50 percent of households that spend 145 - 235 laris monthly). The amount of forest wood cut by
each group decreases as income increases. The degree of poverty largely determines the need to cut wood
for heating and cooking needs. Oni and Lentekhi Districts have the greatest proportion of the poorest
households and depend on forest resources most for heating and cooking. The least poor households are
most likely to use, or desire to use, alternative heating and cooking fuels such as kerosene, gasoline, or
electricity. Tsageri District has the greatest proportion of these households. The general population is
largely unaware of forest management issues but they see excessive cutting of trees as undesirable and
- 94 -



generally support restrictions on wood cutting.
10.    NGO Community. Environmental organizations such as the Green Party and the World Wildlife
Fund dominate the NGO community. Their presence in local communities throughout Georgia is thin, but
they aggressively advocate preservation interests and are most critical of government efforts and distrusting
of its intentions. They have limited influence on the general population and even less influence on
government agencies.
11.    National Forest Management Agencies. Despite positive views of the new Forest Code, there is no
consensus among or within the various forest management agencies on critical policy issues. Budget
shortfalls, lack of coordination, over-centralization, lack of credible forest management data, and many
competing interests compound Government's difficulties. Consequently, there has been no action on these
issues.
12.    Forest Management Districts. There are 54 forest management districts (leskhozes), three parks,
three large and some small plantation farms in Georgia. Forest management districts cover on average
between 20,000 and 100,000 hectares of forest land each.
Table 1: Stakeholder Orientations
Stakeholder         Dependence      Use of Forest    Top Issues of Concern  Opinion of     Knowledge &
Group                on Forest                                              Government     Participation
General Population     Heavy       Wood Fuel & Sales,      Low Income           Mixed            Low
Food; Construction     Unemployment
Transport
Poorest               Greatest         Fuel Wood           Low Income           Resist          Lowest
Unemployment        Restrictions
Transport
Middle                Heavy         Wood Cutting         Low Income           Critical       Medium
Poor                              And Selling Fuelwood    Unemployment          Resist
Transport         Restrictions
Least Poor           Least Heavy   Buying Fuel Wood     Same; Electricity &     Critical        Higher
____________  ___________________H ealthcare
Loggers                Heavy           Logging
NGOs
Environmental          Heavy         Issues Cause      Forestry Degradation     Critical       Highest
Distrustfiul   Knowledge;
Some exclusion
Hunters                Light           Hunting
Government             Heavy         Responsibility    Licensing Restrictions   Mixed           Mixed
Budget          Nature Preserves &
Privatization
Decentralization & Budget
Enforcement
National Agencies      Heavy         Responsibility                             Mixed           Mixed
._________________  Budget
Municipal Agencies     Heavy         Responsibility                             Critical        Mixed
Local Employees        Heavy         Responsibility                             Critical        Mixed
Bribes
- 95 -



13.    Potential Stakeholder Conflicts.  The principal conflicts among stakeholders will center on
enforcement of existing laws and the extent to which the Government supports business interests over
preservation (see table 2). The poorest and middle poor are most likely to resist restrictions on forest use,
particularly in Oni District, and are likely to be the most difficult to influence because they are least
informed. Their adoption of alternative fuels could lessen resistance considerably. Local forestry
departments may be more interested in the financial benefits of forest management than in environmental
stewardship. Environmental NGOs and commercial loggers will likely represent the two extreme positions
on the forest management political spectrum. If this becomes reality, GFDP project managers should listen
to them to gain their considerable expertise but place their agendas secondary to the interests of the general
population and forests.
Table 2: Potential Stakeholder Conflicts
Poorest   NMiddle Poor     Least Poor          NGOs                 Government
Poorest                                              Licensing Restrictions  Licensing Restrictions &
(esp. Oni)      Fees (esp. Oni)
Nature Preserves &  Nature Preserves &
Privatization    Privatization
Private Investment  Corruption
Oni & Lentekhi    Enforcement
Middle Poor                                            Licensing Restrictions Licensing Restrictions &
(esp. Oni)     Fees (esp. Oni) Nature
Nature Preserves &  Preserves & Privatization
Privatization   Corruption
Private Investment  Enforcement
Oni, Lentekhi & Tsageri
Least Poor                            Alternative Fuels  Maybe Licensing   Maybe Licensing Restrictions
Lowers Wood        Restrictions    & Fees
Prices        Alternative fuels  Alternative fuels
important. to this Private Electricity Needs
Investment      Corruption
Tsagefi       Enforcement
Tsageri
Loggers     Cutting &    Cutting &      Cutting &     Cutting and Forestry  Cutting & Forestry Mgt.
Forestry   Forestry Mgt.  Forestry Mgt.         Mgt.         Privatization
Mgmnt.     Privatization  Privatization     Privatization    Exports
Privatization  Exports        Exports           Exports        Enforcement
Exports
NGOs                                                                     Licensing Restrictions
Nature Preserves vs.
Privatization
Budget, Decentralization &
Data
Participation of NGOs
Corruption
E nforcement
Government                                                                  Licensing Restrictions
Nature Preserves &
Privatization
Decentralization & Budget
______________                      Enforcement
- 96 -



Important Social Development Issues
14.   Georgia must address the following key social development issues to reduce poverty, improve
forest health, and strengthen social structures.
15.   Povertv and the Ener v Crisis. Poverty (unemployment and income) dominates the concerns of the
general population. About 50 percent of the sample cannot afford to buy both food and clothing. The
respondents from most of the remaining households reported that they can barely afford basic necessities
and that subsistence agricultw-e ensures their survival. Poverty is the root cause of forest degradation
because it forces two thirds of the population to cut wood for heating, cooking, and earning cash income.
Alternative energy for heating and cooking, such as kerosene, natural gas or electricity, is either
unavailable or too expensive. lThose with more income cut less wood and use more altematives.
16.   Govemment Inaction. NGOs and 80 percent of the general population attribute government
inaction or inefficiency for the country's worsening forest conditions. Fifty-one percent of the respondents
believe that the Government should restrict use of forest resources while 30 percent prefer making
alternative energy more available. Most people are not aware of the Forest Code but believe that weak law
enforcement is a major problem. Inadequate budgetary resources and authority prevent local departments
from hiring and training people and buying the equipment needed to enforce laws adequately. Inadequate
government wages and the population's dependence on wood cutting encourages corruption and lax
enforcement. Lack of govemment coordination dilutes the effectiveness of inadequate resources further.
17.    Lack of Public Awareness. The public's lack of awareness of forest-related laws also contributes
to illegal wood cutting. Trade restrictions on wood may hurt forest resources more than they help by
creating black markets and depiiving forest management departments of much-needed revenue. Inadequate
roads hamper forest management and costs the economy jobs and incomes with which people could
purchase alternative fuels.
18.   Health. More than a third of the population reports that the health of family members has
deteriorated and seven percent believe it is one of the top problems their villages face. The problem is most
severe in Oni and Tsageri. Among those with health problems, two thirds blame the physical and emotional
stress of poverty; only seven percent blame deteriorating healthcare services.
19.   Lack of Credit. The ]ack of credit precludes opportunities for many people, including the 26
percent of the population that wants to start their own business, to increase their income. Only two percent
of the sample reported using credit in the previous 12 months. Lack of credit contributes to poverty which,
in turn, is the principal cause of forest deterioration.
20.    Out-Miaration. Due tc economic blight, at least one family member in about 45 percent of the
households leaves the village. Two thirds of these households do not expect these family members to
return. Youth are most likely to leave their villages, depriving both fanilies and communities of the energy
and strength needed to cut and collect fuelwood and to farrm Out-migration is slowing economic growth
and imposing physical and emotional stress on the elderly. However, remittance income is helping many
families to survive.
21.   Inadequate Awareness and Public Participation.  The population is isolated, constrained
economically, and distrusting due to lack of infonnation; lack of participation in government
- 97 -



policy-making, forestry activities, and social activities; and lack of access to critical resources. The
people's isolation and distrust greatly limits government ability to manage forest resources properly. As
discussed below, the Government can improve its capacity to engage the public and NGOs.
(a)    Lack of Information. Twenty-two percent of the population reported that they do not receive any
information about forest resources (50 percent in Lentekhi), while a little more than half (55 percent) are
dissatisfied with forestry-related information. People trust television and overwhelmingly depend on this
medium for information. Government attemp,s to influence people will be challenged not only by the
difficulty in reaching them, but the tendency of the public not to believe the information they receive.
(b)    Lack of Participation. Two-thirds of the population believe the public should participate in forest
management activities. However, 80 percent have not done so due to lack of opportunities or direction.
Government can greatly improve its capacity to manage forest resources by engaging the public and NGOs,
gaining their trust, and guiding their contributions.
(c)    Insufficient knowledge. The population lacks employment and income because it is socially and
economically isolated. Twenty-six percent have ambitions to start new businesses (more than half of which
would help improve forest health), but they lack access to transportation, credit, and marketing knowledge
and facilities. Most support restricted wood-cutting, but privatizing forests or making them national parks
without availing alternative energy could invite social disaster, particularly among the poor. The
population depends overwhelmingly on state lands for wood, grazing, and gathering food.
Institutional and Organizational Dimensions
22.    Government and the public lack the institutions to address key social development issues. The
public lacks the institutions to generate income/employment; generate energy; or gather, channel, and
assess information. These weaknesses burden the Govermment, which also lacks the institutional capacity
to address poverty and manage forests.
23.    Weak Government Organization.  Government deficiencies cover:  (a) lack of coordination
capacity; (b) over-centralization; (c) inadequate management infornation systems (MIS), (d) deficient
communication with the public; (e) weak staffing due to inadequate numbers of foresters in the field, low
pay or late pay, and insufficient training; and (f) weak administration of wood-cutting licenses.
24.    Lack of Social Infrastructure and Civic Institutions. Deficiencies in social infrastructure and civil
society isolate the population from the Government, forest management activities, and other people. They
lack institutions and physical facilities to obtain information, participate in forest management activities,
store and market agricultural and livestock products, learn about and obtain alternative energy, obtain
credit, or attend educational programs/classes.
Implications of SA for Project Design and Implementation
25.    The SA findings suggests the need to address the deteriorating health of forests by reducing the
population's appetite for fuel wood while improving people's social and economic needs. The following
recommendations should be taken into account in project design and implementation.
Improve Government Enforcement
26.    Because current law enforcement is inadequate, the Govemnnent should: (a) improve the coverage
and effectiveness of all forestry officials, particularly those in local departmnents; (b) augment forest
- 98 -



management by forestry officials with the direct help of the general population and NGOs; and (c) increase
the penalties for violating forestry regulations, particularly wood-cutting restrictions.
Increase Emplovment and Income Generating Opportunities
27.    The incentives to adopt alternative heating and cooking fuels must be supported with increased
opportunities of employment and income. Households are more likely to switch from wood-cutting to
altemative fuel supplies if they ain afford to do so. Three broad measures would support this objective:
(a) improving access of citizens to available resources; (b) targeting lending and technical assistance to
small businesses whose activities support sound forest management; and (c) educating commercial loggers
and those who cut wood for sale on how to profit from healthy, sustainable management of forest
resources.
Improve Government Policy-Making and Implementation
28.    The Govemment has great potential for improving its ability to manage forest resources and
simultaneously nurture social development and economic growth. It can do so by: (a) incorporating the
general population, NGOs and commercial structures into policy discussions, decisions, reviews,
implementation and monitoring; (b) clearly defining sustainable forest development and developing
appropriate policies to support it: (c) assigning clear roles and responsibilities to each of the agencies
responsible for implementing policies; (d) improving the capacity to coordinate the newly clarified roles of
these agencies to meet newly clarified sustainable forest development objectives; (e) decentralizing forest
management activities, including budgeting and administration, while increasing local accountability; (f)
upgrading management information system capabilities to support greater decentralization and coordination
needs; (g) improving dissemination and receipt of information to and from the stakeholders; and (h)
improving human resources in terms of salaries, training, and numbers of employees.
Involve Communities in Forest Management
29.    Forestry departments, particularly at local levels, are understaffed. Simultaneously, households do
not participate enough in government policy-making and forest management. To combat both these
problems, forestry departments should actively engage the population in forest management and related
activities. The SA recommends that: (a) forestry officials establish training, educational and public
awareness programs in integrated forest management for households; (b) villages and communities
establish public forest managemeni. clubs or organizations under the guidance of local forestry departments,
NGOs and local leaders; (c) the forest management clubs provide incentives to members for helping
forestry department officials and NGOs manage forest resources; and (d) national forestry departments and
local village leaders establish a rrteans for citizens to anonymously and conveniently report forest code
violations and instances of official corruption.
Raise Public Awareness of Forestrv Issues
30.    The training, educational, .md public awareness programs should include information campaigns,
forest management and preservation promotions, and community education as well as and other
socially-oriented activities that raise awareness and educate the public about forest management and related
forestry issues. Specific groups should be targeted with these programs:
*  Women. The SA found that women are likely to respond best to information that appeals to their
interest in the traditional and local significance of forests and forest resources (rather than forestry
- 99 -



interests in general). Such themes could include the local importance of native plants such as herbs,
memories of community or family activities in the more pristine forests of the past, and the historical
and religious significance of the region's natural attributes. Engaging women's interest with these
subjects will lay the groundwork for more explicitly addressing forest management issues. Printed
materials such as brochures, calendars or posters are the best media for reaching women.
0 Youth. Young people under 20 years old living in or adjacent forests are likely to respond best to
infornnation that appeals to their interest in the unavailability or expense of fuel alternatives,
employment opportunities associated with proper forest management, and commercial sector
development components of the GFPD such as how sustainable forest utilization can be profitable.
Radio and television are the best media to reach youth.
* Villagers Older Than 50 Years. This group is most likely to respond best to information about
general forestry issues such as the traditional importance of local natural resources, the long-term
benefits of forest preservation, and the financial benefits of sustainable forest utilization to local
economies (such as employment, infrastructure and municipal services). Radio and print media such
as newspapers would be most effective in reaching this group.
* Poor. Those too poor to afford alternative fuels are critical to target because they are most likely
to fell fuel wood, are least informed, and are least likely to participate in forest management. They
should be targeted with information that appeals to their interest in economic and employment
opportunities in sustainable forest management and development and the importance of forest resources
to wildlife and hunting. Forest management clubs should entice households with incentives to join the
clubs and participate in forest management. Such incentives might include priority consideration in
receiving municipal services, or even discounts on alternative fuel supplies and equipment. Club
managers must ensure that members participate actively and cooperatively with government foresters
and NGOs in forest management activities.
Social Outcomes, Monitoring, and Evaluation
35.    Social outcomes that can be expected from the project may include: (a) increased access by the
poor to fuelwood, (b) greater awareness of the need to protect forest resources, (c) increased public
participation in forest management decision making, (d) increased community participation in sustainable
forest management, (e) better compliance with forestry laws and regulations, and (f) greater involvement in
private sector activities related to sustainable forest management. Possible monitoring indicators include:
Number and location of individuals purchasing permits to cut wood (specifying age and gender)
* Amount of revenue generated per forest district through the sale of wood-cutting tickets
* Number of individuals who regularly cut wood or use altemative fuels for heating and/cooking
* Number of educational workshops or seminars held in each forest district and the average Number
of people who attend these seminars; specifying attendees by age, gender and type of participant
(citizen, NGO, commercial logger)
*  Number of citizen, NGO and commercial representatives actively participating in govemnent
forestry management bodies, committees and special panels
*  Number or percentage of individuals with knowledge of forestry management laws, regulations and
activities (specifying results by age and gender)
*  Number of individuals or representatives of NGOs or commercial enterprises who actively
participate in govenmment forest management bodies, committees, or special panels Number of
- 100 -



new businesses and number of those contributing directly to improved forest health
* Number of those who regularly cut wood who turn to alternative fuels for heating and/or cooking
*  Proportion of households that have turned to alternative fuels but continue to cut wood, and the
reasons why they continue to cut wood
*  Amount of new timber growth and the amount of wood leaving specific areas
*  Type and number of violations of licensing restrictions, number of repeat offenders, average
number of offenses for repeat offenders, and average amnount of fine or jail time per offense by
category of offense
*  Type and number of instances of official corruption and the number of disciplinary actions taken
per type of offense
*  Number of NGO offices established in each forestry region and the average numnber of full-time
and part-time workers staffing these offices
*  Number and locations of forestry management clubs established per hectare and the number of
active members of these clubs per hectare (specifying members by age and gender)
*  Number of forestry officials who have satisfactorily completed training in natural resource
management, general management and communications/public relations
During the project implementation, these indicators can be monitored through household surveys and
community consultations, and then evaluated by an independent social research organization in Georgia
The results of the monitoring and evaluation activities will help determine the extent to which
project-financed participatory forest management activities are meeting project objectives and whether any
adjustments are needed:
The list of interviews by profession and the suggested public awareness raising activities are included in the
full text of the Social Assessment and Public Participation Plan (annex to the Project Implementation Plan).
- 101 -



Additional
Annex 12
Summary Environmental Assessment and Environment Management Plan
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
I.     As part of the preparation of the Georgia Forests Development Project (FDP), an Environmental
Assessment (EA) was commissioned by Georgia Forest Sector Development Center (FSDC) using a
Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) grant from the Government of Japan with the purpose
of preparing this project proposed for the World Bank financing. ACTA Consultants Georgia Ltd. was
hired for carrying out the EA. Following is the summary of the main findings provided in the EA report,
their implications for the project design and implementation arrangements for the project's Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). The detailed version of the environmental assessment and EMP complete with
attachments is included in the Project Implementation Plan. The complete EA report, together with the
record of public consultations was submitted to the World Bank's InfoShop on July 11, 2001.
Objectives and Methodology of the EA
2.     Although the project had been originally mapped by Bank for a "Category B" environmental
assessment, at the request of the Borrower's Minister of Environment the scope of this EA and its
procedures have actually followed the "Category A" requirements, including public consultations at the
TOR stage and at the stage of the draft final report. The Borrower and the Bank also agreed that this EA
should be implemented in the form of a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA), as the project is
designed to have a sectoral impact. The main objective of this EA is to carry out sector-wide
environmental analysis for integration of environmental concems into the arrangements for technical
assistance, institutional restructuring design and the investment plan to be developed under FDP. Its
specific objectives are to: analyze the policy, legal and administrative framework relevant to the forest
sector and recommend reform if needed; identify major environmental and social issues related to the
development of the forestry sector; collect baseline data in relation to these environmental and social issues
and their trends; analyze impacts of the proposed project as compared to its alternatives and make
recommendations for mitigation if necessary; analyze in-country capacity for environmental management
and assessment in the sector; provide general guidelines for long-term sector-wide environmental
monitoring; and assist in inter-agency coordination and public/NGO consultation process.
3.     The EA consultants had a closer look at Oni district in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area, which
would be the first district to receive comprehensive project assistance in improved forest planning and
management. A more detailed subset of baseline data was assembled and analyzed for this pilot district
using Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing methodology. The software used for
these purposes is ArcView 3.2 (ESRI) and Image Analysis (a product of ESRI and ERDAS). Detailed
aerial photos of Oni district dated 1989 and 2000 provided by the Borrower were used by the EA
consultants to apply a GIS-based classification of the area into several categories and to analyze dynamics
by carrying out comparative analysis of the two data sets. The areas that fall under legal prohibition of
felling were identified through the application of a special GIS module. The GIS data compiled by the EA
consultants during this analysis, together with the results of this analysis, have been fully transferred to the
Borrower for future use in forest inventory and planning activities during project implementation.
4.     Public consultations were carried during preparation of the EA to identify key forest related
environmental issues on the national and local levels and to provide infornation on stakeholders' major
- 102-



concerns. Consultations were held with the following key types of stakeholders: relevant legislative and
executive branches of the Government, including regional offices of the SFD, scientific-research institutes,
NGOs and the private sector. After preparing of the draft EA report, its findings and recommendations
were presented to project stakeholders at the public meetings held in Tbilisi on May 18, 2001 and in Oni
on May 30 - June 4, 2001. A sumnmary of public comments received in the process of these consultations
is provided as an annex to the EA report.
Key Findings
5.     Following are the main findings of the EA. They address legal and institutional frarnework of
forest management, forest use pattems and practices, biodiversity of forest ecosystems, forest products and
infrastructure, sustainability of forest use and public participation in the forest use planning.
6.     Legal Framework. Most of the environmental laws of Georgia currently in force were passed in
the 1 990s. The Constitution of Georgia provides the basic rights of its citizens to live in a healthy
environment, to obtain full infonnation on the state of environment at the place of residence and work and
to use natural resources in a sustainable manner, respecting interests of the present and future generations.
The new Forest Code of Georgia was enacted in 1999. It is a fi-amework law whose implementation
depends on supporting laws and regulations, many of which are yet to be developed. A remarkable feature
of this Forest Code is that for the first time after the Soviet period it allows private ownership of forests by
physical and legal bodies once a specific law on forest privatization is developed and adopted.
7.     Due to serious concerns with deforestation and timber export, a number of legal actions were
taken during the last decade to regulate timber extraction and export. Currently prohibitions on the
commercial use of forests and ork timber export are lifted and no tax is applied to timber export, though the
debates on introduction of more stringent rules are ongoing within legislative and executive branches of the
Government.
8.     The EA concludes that Georgia's environmental legislation is pretty comprehensive, though
improvement is required to address few contradictions between laws, to eliminate overlapping of
competencies, and to achieve better balance between sanctions for illegal wood cutting and taxes for legal
harvesting. Some gaps need to be closed by fonnal adoption of the existing regulations or by development
of the new legislation for the purposes of full applicability of the Forest Code.
9.    Institutions. Three main bodies of the executive Government involved in forest management are
the Ministry of Environment, the State Department of Forestry (SFD), and the State Department of
Protected Areas, Nature Reserve, and Hunting Farms. Other related agencies include Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, the State I)epartment of Land Management, and the State Department of Tourism
and Resorts. Georgia Forest Secitor Development Center is established in the capacity of a legal body of
Public Law for the purpose of pn.paration and implementation of FDP proposed for the Bank financing.
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for providing public funding to the sector. The Ministries of
Revenues and Tax, Economy, Industry and Trade, Interior, and the State Department of Customs are
involved in establishing of tax and other payment rates, as well as in enforcing environmental, civil and
criminal legislation related to forest sector.
10.   Elective assemblies of local govemance and self govemance could play important role in sustaining
forest use and exploiting its protective function against natural hazards, though these entities are still
underdeveloped. Functional and geographic competencies in forest management create an institutional
matrix that needs to be balanced :ror achieving effective results.
- 103 -



11.    Due to the State budget constraints, public funding for institutions responsible for forest
management is extremely low. Institutional capacity of law enforcement is weak and corruption can be
found from the top to the base of the hierarchies. The SFD retains a branch of forestry enterprises
resulting in the Department's financial interest in logging. This contributes to various conflicts that arise
between the interests of the Ministry of Environment, the SFD, and the State Department of Protected
Areas, Nature Reserves and Hunting Farms.
12.    Forest Ownership and Liabilitv. All forests belong currently to the State and are mostly managed
by the SFD. Some forested area which was owned by collective farms during the Soviet period, is outside
the responsibility of the Department. Part of former kolkhoz forests are being transferred to the SFD.
Others could be transferred to local communities. Community managed forestry is considered as an
altemative to a pure State or a pure private ownership of forests. Legal or physical bodies may become
private owners of forests in future, as well as the Patriarchy of the Georgian Orthodox Christian Church.
13.    Privatization of forests can not be initiated till the enactment of the Law of Georgia on
Privatization of Forests. Incompleteness of land registration and cadaster could hinder privatization of
forests and create liquidity problems for the privatized forest plots. This means that if an owner of a forest
plot who got it in result of privatization decides to transfer ownership rights later to someone else (to sell
the plot or to use it as a mortgage), then a reliable title to the land and registration documents are critical
for the smooth transfer. The lack of the above will make the land plot unattractive for the potential owners
because of the law liquidity and its market value will drop. Due to the weak law enforcement capacity in
the country and the lack of long term planning in business, public opinion on forest privatization is mostly
negative. Given the example of recently privatized enterprises, there is some likelihood of unsustainable
use of privatized forests, including clear-cutting for the sake of large immediate profits. On the other hand,
the Govemment of Georgia may be keen on privatization expecting significant revenue to the State budget
currently in crisis.
14.    Forest Management Planning. Ten-year forest management plans have been prepared for all
forests in Georgia during the Soviet period. However, none of these plans - prepared mostly 15-20 years
ago - have been updated in the last ten years, therefore they do no meet contemporary technical criteria.
The most recent plans have not been carried out due to insufficient funding. Mostly due to the same reason
there is a very little capacity of updating the existing management plans, as required, every 10 years.
Forest management planning needs to be re-established on the technically up-to-date and reliable
information base, deploying Forest Management Infornation Systems and GIS technology.
15.    There is a limited national experience of developing forest management plans in the light of the
broader land use planing exercise. The absence of agreed upon standards and guiding principles causes
problems in achieving consensus during land use planning, provided that there is conflict of interest and
competition between various sectors and institutions.
16.    Protective. Tourist and Cultural Uses. Significant areas of mountain forests of Georgia have a
protective function against natural hazards and/or carry potential of tourist and cultural use. Restrictions
on wood extraction from such forests have been in place in the past, though not duly reflected in the
traditional forest management plans. Contingent valuation of the national forest fund has not been carried
out for estimating profits of the alternative forest use patterns or the opportunity costs of wood harvesting
vis-a-vis protection against natural hazards or tourist and cultural use of forests. Sound land use planning
would allow identifying and enhancing the prevailing functions of forests and maintaining all other
functions as well, which is the main concept of forests multiple uses.
- 104 -



17.   Forest Products. There are two basic types of forest products: wood and non-wood. Wood
products could be classified as timber, derived by commercial extraction and firewood, collected by local
communities or produced by sanitary cutting of defective or dying trees. By official statistical data,
commercial felling makes up less than 10% of the wood harvested. The volume of harvested wood is
smaller than allowable, and standing volume is on the increasing trend due to natural growth and
regeneration. Nevertheless, occtrrence of illegal timber extraction is unanimously acknowledged and the
actual volume of unrecorded felling is difficult to estimate.
18.   Non-wood forest products comprise mushrooms, berries, wild fruits and medicinal herbs. Most of
this production is not comnmercialized yet and no records are kept on harvests. There is no indication of
any considerable decrease of the abundance of the above non-wood forest products.
19.   Infrastructure and Wood Harvesting Systems. Infrastructure and harvesting systems used for
harvesting forest resources are out-of-date and depreciated. Forest roads and the main district roads
connecting towns and regional centers are in a poor condition. Trees are felled mostly with chainsaws, with
little regard for the safety of woricers, and skidded using old agricultural tractors. Skyline cable lines are
not available. Logs are transported down the slopes by rolling or sliding, both damaging for the soil and
standing trees. The important finding is that environmental damage of logging is much higher than it could
have been for the same volume of extracted timber if better technologies were deployed.
20.    Carefully planned and properly conducted rehabilitation of forest roads as well as construction of
some new roads are precondition; for the sustained management of mountain forests. Though construction
methods must be environmentally friendly and much different from the current practices. The same is true
for timber extraction and transportation equipment. Skyline cable lines are recommended for mountain
terrain as the means of minimizing soil erosion and the damage to vegetation.
21.    Biodiversity and Landsca.pe Both landscape and ecosystems are very diverse in Georgia and
represent valuable assets for the development of ecotourism and cultural tourism. Wood cutting as well as
rehabilitation and construction of forest roads will not go without affecting the environment, though
outcomes may greatly vary depending on the methodology and scope of economic activities. Selective
removal of trees may enhance diversity of flora and fauna by creating favorable growth conditions for the
pioneer and light depending species, whereas clear-cutting and deforestation would destroy habitats and
threaten the forest species.
22.    Rehabilitation/constructicn of roads and installation of skylines may cause modest or severe
damage to the landscape and biodiversity depending on the topography and geology of the terrain as well as
on the machinery and technologies used by construction workers. Improved access to the remote forested
areas is likely to bring about better control and protection of forests, including fauna, though, on the other
hand, poachers will also gain better access to timber and the large mammal species.
23.    Public Participation in Forest Management. Georgian legislation establishes the right of
population and public organizations to receive full, reliable and timely infornation on the condition of the
State Forest Fund and to participale fully in forest management planning. The State entities involved in
forest management are obligated to make forest management plans, protection regimes, allocation of the
areas for forest use and categories established for the State Forest Fund publicly available. Although
stipulated in the framework legislation, these rights are not fully enjoyed by population as no detailed
procedure for ensuring public part cipation in the decision making process has been developed.
Communities do believe that they should be involved in planning and management, but because of poor
- 105 -



knowledge and unawareness of problems, little know what their contribution could be. Communities
residing in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area do not have much trust in the official information. Even less
convinced are the NGOs.
24.    There is an acute need of public information and awareness campaign. Even more challenging task
would be ensuring public participation in the decision making and in hands-on management, that implies
empowering of the local communities, bringing more transparency to the State agencies executing forest
management, and improving planning and maniagement efficiency. NGOs are likely to play an important
role in the promotion of democratic principles of the participatory decision making.
Implications of the EA for Project Design and Implementation
25.    Legislation. The EA recommends to improve legislation regulating forest sector by amending
existing laws to remove imperfections and by creating new laws and regulations as required in support to
the Forest Code. The SFD should produce specific forest regulations supporting implementation of the
Forest Code with the involvement of public. This would also include development of a draft law and
detailed guidelines for privatization of certain forest lands. The SFD and other key stakeholders will
receive technical assistance under the FDP for accomplishing the above.
26.   Institutional Reform. The EA describes poor institutional capacity of forest management caused
by next to zero public funding and unfit institutional set-up. Development and implementation of an
institutional reorganization plan and a forestry financial system reform plan would be essential for any
progress in the sector. Optimization of the central and regional structures of the SFD must be matched
with the altemative methods of its financing, sufficient for carrying out forest management and protection
functions.
27.    Policy Formulation. The EA report talks about weak national capacity of law enforcement and
corruption in the public sector. FDP will not be able to resolve these issues at the national level, though it
should take the challenge of improving situation within the sector by creating right incentives for both
public officials and the private sector through the right policy decisions. Although specific for forestry
sector, policy decisions would require inter-sectorial dialogue. The main issues to be addressed are pricing
of the forest resources and products, maximizing State revenues from forest use, creating incentives for
long term investments and sustainable use of forest resources, discouraging illegal felling and smuggling of
timber, etc.
28.    Forest ownership. Ownership and liability issues related to former collective farm forests should
be resolved and options of privatization carefully analyzed. FDP will facilitate acquaintance with the
intemational experience in conmmunity managed forestry and selection of the options best suitable for
Georgia. A few pilots will be launched to study the cases of community forestry prior to copying this
model on the wider scale.
29.    Forest Management Planning. The EA calls for the creation of Forest Management Information
System that would provide grounds for sound planning of land use and forest management. In the Central
Caucasus, Pilot Area, the project will support improved forest inventory and land use planning where a
new landscape-ecological methodology will be tested out, refined and later carried on to other areas of the
country. An important implication of this exercise would be joint involvement of the project
implementation teams and implementing agencies for FDP and Georgia Protected Areas Development
Project. The practice of using commnon methodology for achieving consensus between competing interests
must be initiated within the scope of cooperation between these two projects.
- 106 -



30.    Public participation in the planning and implementation of forest management is currently not
satisfactory. FDP will support the SFD and other relevant institutions in the education and public
awareness campaign. Increased kmowledge about forests and biodiversity would contribute to the stronger
engagement of population into the participatory management planning for community and local forests.
31.    Road Infrastructure and Wood Harvesting Systems. The EA revealed high sensitivity of the
landscape and ecosystems of motmtain terrain to the construction of roads and creation of skyline cable line
trenches. It is also apparent that Ihe degree of environmental damage caused by construction and road
rehabilitation may greatly vary depending on the technology and practice of civil works. Therefore, general
planning of road infrastructure as well as detailed designs will require much consideration and careful
analysis of alternatives. Construction standards must incorporate environmental safeguards and must be
adapted to the landscape and weather conditions of the Caucasus.
32.    Best management practio-s must be applied for minimizing environmental impacts of forest
harvesting and roading operations. FDP will involve demonstration and testing of environmentally friendly
forest harvesting and roading systems in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area for further adjustment and
adoption of the new technologies country-wide.
33.    The primary benefit of thits demonstration work would be to reduce the costs of extraction, to
increase producer margins and market competitiveness, and to reduce the environmental damage which has
been an outcome of continued logging with outdated equipment on poorly maintained roads. Roads
targeted for rehabilitation are primarily those which were damaged as a result of last year's heavy rains,
landslides, and floods. New forest roads would primarily be extensions of existing roads into forests which
have been under management, and which are not isolated undisturbed forests. Many of these areas are
already being intensively exploite(d using an extensive network of extremely damaging skidding trails. The
overall impact of the roads included in the program will be to reduce the dependence on skidding trails for
extraction. Exploitation in these areas will continue with or without project support. No forest road will
be built in forest protected areas.
34.    Environmental Permitting The EA report covers legal aspects of the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and outlines ELk implications for FDP. According the Law of Georgia on
Environmental Permits, planning of the management, use and protection of forests as well as infrastructure
development activities - all being parts of FDP - require EIA prior to obtaining environmental pennits for
implementation. It is noted that regulations for conducting the EIA have been developed by the Ministry of
Environment of Georgia. They exist de facto and are being followed. However, these regulations have not
yet been published in the Georgiarn Legislative Bulletin after registration in the Ministry of Justice and,
therefore, are still not legally binding according to the Law of Georgia on Normative Acts.
35.   It was agreed with the Ministry of Environment that FDP, as a whole, would not be subjected to
the EIA and environmental permitling. Instead, the EA has been carried out for the project, and an
Environmental Management Plan prepared. EIAs would have to be carried out for individual activities of
FDP during project implementation phase. The Ministry of Environment of Georgia advised that any forest
management plans, including community forest management as well as plans for forest protection and
afforestation are activities attributed to category I. They require the State ecological expertise based on the
EIA and must receive environmental permits for implementation from the central office of the Ministry of
Environment. Plans for rehabilitation and construction of the local forest road infrastructure fall under
category III, requiring State ecological expertise that goes without EIA and obtaining of environmental
pennits for implementation from the respective regional offices of the Ministry of Environment. The EA
- 107-



recommends that in the medium term, forest management plans which have to be based on the land use
plans already assessed for their environmental impact, are not subjected to any additional EIAs, although
this approach would need to be agreed to with Georgian authorities and might require amending the EIA
legislation.
36.    According to the Georgian legislation, the State ecological expertise, carried out by the Ministry of
Environment, implies hiring of experts external to the Ministry. Contract costs are defined by the Ministry
of Environment individually for each activity subjected to the expertise. Contract cost comprises the bulk
of payment for environmental permit paid to the Ministry of Environment by an entity implementing
activities under consideration. For the purposes of FDP implementation, FSDC will be obligated to cover
expenses of obtaining environmental permits for the above mentioned components of the project.
Indicators of Sustainable Forest Management
37.    The EA report introduces a general academic definition of the sustainable forest management and
provides a sample list of criteria and indicators of sustainability with the rating of significance. It is
recommended that during implementation of FDP, an operational definition of sustainable forest
management is elaborated and a set of criteria and indicators is revised for adaptation to Georgia's
specificity. That would become a part of transparent policy dialogue to be facilitated under FDP.
Analysis of Alternatives
38.    Three altemative scenarios were analyzed under the EA in the light of their environmental and
social impacts. The "existing project scenario" focuses on the sustainable forest management. It would
provide technical assistance to the SFD for institutional strengthening, develop forest planning methods,
improved silvicultural operations, assist in rehabilitation, construction and maintenance of roads required
for the implementation of management plans, promote low-impact cable logging systems and ultimately
would bring about significant improvements of the socio-economic and environmental conditions in forest
sector.
39.    "No project scenario" would unfold if the Government of Georgia does not borrow from IDA for
the development of forestry and, therefore, none of the project components are implemented. Under this
scenario the SFD would remain a week and poorly financed institution with very little capacity of planning
and implementing forest management. Unsustainable forest use would continue causing much
environmental damage combined with little social and economic benefits and modest revenues to the State.
Therefore, "no project scenario " is considered socially, economically and environmentally inferior to the
"existing project scenario."
40.    The third analyzed scenario is concentrating on the integrated forest development. In comparison
with the "existing project scenario," it puts more emphasis on the intersectoral approach to forest-related
issues: improving local energy infrastructure for reducing demand for firewood, development of tourism for
increasing revenues from recreational use of forests, support to livestock breeding for addressing
uncontrolled grazing in forests, etc. "Integrated forest development scenario" is considered a better tool for
achieving positive socio-economic and environmental effects than a sectoral forestry approach, though it is
highly challenging in terms of demanded synergy and constructive cooperation between the different State
agencies.
- 108 -



Environmental Management Plan and Monitoring Guidelines
41.    The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is a part of the Project Implementation Plan. It
features a comprehensive list of sectoral environmental issues and potential project risks and provides
mitigation and/or other additional measures for addressing them. The EMP provides for a phased
screening and mitigation of these risks. All project activities were categorized according to expected
environmental impact. Those aclivities that bear even small potential risks (such as damage from misuse of
harvesting and transportation equipment at demonstration and training sites, or erosion caused by misuse of
heavy equipment during limited forest road rehabilitation and construction) will be subject to site-specific
environmental impact assessmenls (EIAs) with proper public consultations in accordance with the Bank's
safeguards policies. Contractors would have to comply with environmentally improved standardis for forest
operations.
42.    The MEPNR has confirmed and detailed this proposed phased approach to site-specific ElAs in its
letter dated May 21, 2001, which was subsequently reflected in the PIP. Accordingly, for each of these
activities, as well as the newly developed forest management plans themselves, site-specific ElAs,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be prepared and environmental permits issued in accordance with such EIAs
(pursuant to Schedule 4 of the negotiated Credit Agreement). Implementation at central and district level
would be monitored by the MEPNR, and mandatory provisions to that effect are also reflected in the Credit
Agreement. These activities are fidly budgeted for in the detailed project cost tables that are available in the
PIP.
43.    The EMP has incorporated robust and sound safeguards regarding any project activities with
potential environmental risks. The best-practice guidelines will guide the planning and design of all new
and rehabilitated forest roads under the Project. All roads supported by the Project will only be planned in
accordance with detailed landscape forest management plans and will also be subject to an individual EIA.
The development of best practice guidelines through an open, participatory and consultative process
(considering environmental and social concerns) and the requirement to have an EIA for each new road is a
significant change in forest road design and construction in Georgia, setting an important precedent.
44.    Risks to cultural property are not anticipated, since production forests are not generally located in
or near cultural heritage sites. If there any such sites are identified during the forest landscape planning
process (chance finds), they wouldl be assessed and in accordance with OPN 11.03, appropriate rneasures
would be designed and implemented to ensure that there is no damage to cultural property.
45.    The EA also provides recommendations for project environmental monitoring and detailed
guidelines for the long-term sector-wide environmental monitoring based on the indicators of sustainable
forest management assembled in six thematic sets: conservation of biodiversity; maintenance of productive
capacity of forest ecosystems; maintenance of forest ecosystem health, vitality and protective function;
conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources; maintenance and enhancement of multiple
socio-economic benefits of population from forests; and legal, institutional and economic framework for
forest conservation and management.
-109-



Additional
Annex 13
Letter of Forest Sector Development Policy
GEORGIA: Forests Development Project
STA1E MINlISTEa
OF GEORGIA
Mrs. Judy O' Conuor
County Dit=tor for G"T&
Souwf Caaues Comtay Unit
Emope and CJntr Asia Regicon
The Word Bank
'Wshington D C. 20433 U.S.A.
Mey 16,200
DI)r Mn. O' Connor,
F?l ofail 1 wod lake to Sei' tbig 0pp0rswntY to eXPre&s my sinCre gaite ID thC
WorWd Bak for its pe rm elfrbts in the support of ecoommic rdfowm  and ovarcoming
the transition period probknu.
It is. Indee4 ianpoasihls t o underestimre die inmpoie of the asstance provied by the
irumutloanl comtmity and, especialy, te Woi Bank in te reom          proccx
unditten by the Q0uuinem of Gmeor. Only vvith the finwnual cumnitmet an
evpatiac of the Woild Bank it bccanxe possible to caffy out a wide range of n4btms in
vitl secors of Georgian eonomy. The Geo.'ian    ioveuemnt. SUppostd by the
ihiunatrnnd doon. oatuswec to succesatily coe with the ethltengs of the transition
period.
Vith this teCtes let me inoodUo tD yOu the attach1d -Sst8nt1t of dte Govenunc -of
Cveorgia' on Main Principles of Govenmnent Policy fha Geolees Forestry Secr
Dcvelpmait In 2002-2010.
Unfurtunatdy, the existing social and moomok onst inSs wtd coadnuous fincial
diffctuties pxevrtt the C1oTant of  ergia rakm filly financing all thre mtues
necessuy to casw  die deveklpmen of tde foresty eor, Whkh is one of the highest
poneities fwrm its eowomical, social ecelogical. histoticaJ and catualc sundpoints.
In light of te abov, we coDer the Wald Bank, whic         has supported  the
iuaettntior U A! nOf ny imAportant mcasnas ttageed at the fresY socto refOtM as One
t         ta"geaa at me Ic r Sctor zerorni. as we
- 110 -



Tah Oovearumi ofreoia is sttrongy aniued to fb rolbiw of tbc Grooian IeAry
sectkr and lwps so wkev     the idatified goaS wilth 1  fromndnl backin  of the
isrcmaionl onmunity and the World Bantk, In paticuLar.
Sincerely Yours,
,9., /
I- 6L~& M       IK
4 *-'atnhv !l,tnfcl
4cit|i.in 4."u,itr . 4 Xlfjj,



Statement of the Government of Georgia
Main Principles of Government Policy for Georgia's Forest Sector Development in 2002-2010
Approved by the State Minister of Georgia
May 14, 2002
1. General Information
1 .    Forests, as a key component of the natural environment of Georgia, have a great ecological, social,
economical and cultural significance that is fully recognized in the country. Conservation, protection,
development and sustainable management of forests is a priority objective of the overall government
policy.
2.     Political, economic and social realities (civil war, financial and energy crisis, etc.) faced by
Georgia since Independence have heavily affected the forest sector. Significantly increased demand on
wood (mostly for fuel) and a permanent lack of public funding for forest management have created
favorable conditions for illegal and criminal practices in the sector, threatening sustainability of the natural
ecosystems.
3.     Govemrnent of Georgia, appreciating importance of the above problems, made some practical
steps to protect forests though the relevant provisions in the Constitution of Georgia and by ratifying or
joining several international treaties and conventions. The new national legal and regulatory framework
also provides for sustainable management of forests and for public participation in the forest use planning.
4.     Regardless the ongoing efforts, full enforcement of the mentioned legislation remains a challenge.
The Government, under the public pressure to eradicate illegal activities in forest sector, was forced to
carry out temporary measures like a ban on final felling (1998-1999) and a moratorium on log exports.
Unfortunately, these regulations had only limited impact on the root causes of forest degradation and need
to be urgently replaced with more comprehensive policy measures.
H. National Policy Objectives
The Government of Georgia hereby acknowledges the forest sector as one of the priority areas for
socio-economic development of the country, confirms its commitment to the development of a
comprehensive National Forest Policy in line with the UN guidelines on the sustainable development and
following the below basic principles:
1 .    Elaborating of a long term forest strategy and introducing a sustainable forest management system
that would maximize the revenues from the Georgia's State forests and would make a significant
contribution to poverty eradication in rural areas. Implementation of a long term forest strategy would not
cause damage to the environment of other nation States or any areas beyond limits of the Georgia's national
jurisdiction;
2.     Sustainably managing forest resources and forest lands to meet the social, economic, ecological,
cultural and spiritual needs of the present and future generations. Taking due measures for protecting
forests from pollution (including airbome pollution), fire, pests and disease with the purpose of full
maintenance of the diverse functions of forests;
- 112-



3.    Increasing public awareness and providing timely, reliable and accurate information on forests and
forests ecosystems for ensuring a well informed decision making;
4.     Ensuring participation of stakeholders (society, industries, trade unions, non-governmental
organizations, communities residing in forested areas, and individuals, including women) in planning
implementation of the national forest policy;
5.     Using the national forest policy and strategy for defining the new, and reinforcing the ongoing
activities in the sector, including enhancement of the institutional and progmmmatic development aimed at
the management (rational use) olFthe State forest Fund, its conservation and sustainable development;
6.     Developing international cooperation in the forest sector through international and national
organizations and other viable vehicles of communication;
7.     Carrying out comprehensive assessment and integration of all environmental, social and economic
aspects related to forests and the State Forest Fund;
8.     Balancing development of all types of forest use, preference given to the least destructive uses of
those producing the equal econoraic outcome;
9.     Acknowledging importance of all types of forests in the evolvement of ecological processes and in
maintaining ecological balance as the local, regional, national and global levels;
10.    Acknowledging of, and providing due support to the identity and culture of the local communities
residing in the forested areas. ErLsuring acceptable level of their livelihood though the sustainable forest
use.
11.    Promoting full participation of women in all aspects of the management, conservation and
sustainable development of fores ts;
12.    Meeting demand on timber through sustainable use of forest resources, afforestation and
reforestation. Carrying out comprehensive evaluation of the perspectives of using forest plantations of the
aborigenous and introduced varieties with the purpose of increasing supply of fuel wood and industrial
timber;
13.    Incorporating results of ihe assessment of economic and non-economic values of forest goods and
services and the ecological cost-benefit analysis into the national forest policy and programs to support
decision making on the rational forest use, conservation and sustainable development. Supporting
development and improvement of'the methodology for such assessments;
14.    Creating favorable international economic climate for alleviating poverty and ensuring food
security through carrying out sustainable and environmentally sound forest use;
15.    Using economically and socially sound measures for maintaining and increasing productivity of the
Georgia's green cover and forests, for forest reconstruction and afforestation in the degraded and deforested
areas, and for the rational use of the existing forest resources;
16.   Integrating of forest management (rational use) with the management (rational use) of the adjacent
areas for ensuring ecological balance and sustaining their productivity;
17.    Considering conservation of ecologically viable and unique types of forest (including virgin forests
and forests with cultural, historicad and religious importance) an integral part of the rational use,
conservation and sustainable development of forests;
18.    Ensuring environmental impact assessment in compliance with the Georgian legislation;
19.    Supporting rational use oi'forest resources though decreased application of non-efficient
technologies and through introduction of high standard technologies for the local value added processing;
20.    Promoting forest certification through institutional, economic, social and political support to this
endeavor,
21.    For the purpose of addressing forest degradation, considering effects from outside the forest sector
on all types of forest ecosystems and on the demand for forest resources in developing policies for
economic, industrial, trade and other sectors and planning inter-sect oral cooperation for regulating these
effects;
22.    Enhancing national efforts in carrying out scientific research, scientific-technical works, forest
- 113 -



inventory and various types of forest assessment as well as international exchange of information on forests
and on the outcomes of scientific research and scientific-technical works on rational use of forest resources
making full use of education and training institutions, including those in the private sector;
23.    Recognizing, appreciating and supporting institutionally as well as financially the local and
traditional knowledge and experience regarding conservation and sustainable development of forests. Using
this knowledge in the development of new programs;
24.    Respecting international legislation and practice applied to trade in forest products. Adopting
non-discrirninative and mutually agreed upon regulations and procedures of trade;
25.   Incorporating environmental cost-benefit analysis in marketing of forest products nationally and
internationally with the purpose of supporting conservation of forest resources and their sustainable
development;
26.    Regulating pollutants negatively affecting forest ecosystems at the local, regional and national
levels.
m. Program of Actions
The Government of Georgia will implement this national forest policy over the period of
2002-2010 following the time-bound action plan outlined below:
1.    With the purpose of eradicating illegal and criminal practices in the forest sector, ensuring
participation of the Anti-Corruption Council in the analysis and discussion of the outcomes of the
inspections carried out by the Chamber of Control of Georgia in accordance with the Georgian legislation
in force and with due frequency. Planning and implementing due measures to address issues identified by
the Chamber of Control - starting in III quarter of2003, once in every two years;
2.     Conducting an independent baseline study of illegal use of the State forests and discussing results
of this study by a steering panel comprised of various stakeholders (including representatives of the
Anti-Corruption Bureau) - IV quarter of 2003;
3.     Moving from a ban on log exports and limiting rates of taxation to the improved administrative
control over the location of extraction, processing, and exports of timber products though enhanced State
inspection system - IV quarter of 2003;
4.    Improving legal framework for forest sector management with consideration of obligations
assumed by Georgia upon signing of intemational treaties and bringing it in harmony with the EU
legislation, as well as developing and implementing mechanisms for law enforcement -IV quarter of 2003;
5.     Adopting national forest standards and certification procedures for forest management and forest
use - IV quarter of 2003;
6.     Developing and adopting mechanisms for sustainable financing of reforestation and afforestation of
the State forests - IV quarter of 2003;
7.    Introducing a pilot system of economic analysis and market forecasting in forest sector - IV
quarter of 2003.
8.    Improving the existing mechanism of marketing and pricing of the timber and non-timber forest
resources though moving from an administrative method of pricing towards the principles of market driven
economy and through introducing competitive types of trade in forest resources (auctions, tenders) - IV
- 114-



quarter of 2003;
9.     Developing and piloting a national program for fuel wood supply- I quarter of2004;
10.   Establishing a national system of forest audits for an increased transparency of decision making
and an improved access to information on the outcomes of the official inspections and independent forest
monitoring - IV quarter of 2004;
11.   Improving planning of the targeted programs in forest sector based on the integrated land use
planning carried out using a methodology of ecosystem-based forest inventory and total economic valuation
of forest resources - IV quarter of2004;
12.    Elaborating and full scale implementation of a plan for institutional reorganization in forest sector
- IV quarter of 2005;
13.   Drafting legislation on forest ownership rights and submitting it for public review - I quarter of
2006;
14.   Developing modem programs for reforestation and forest restoration (e.g. restoration of flood plain
forests, rehabilitation shelter belts and afforestation of eroded areas) and integrating these programs into
the regional development plans - I quarter of 2006;
15.   Completing establishment of local forest systems and improving their management - I quarter of
2006;
16.   Creating a national inforrration system on forest management available for public - II quarter of
2007;
17.   Planning allocation of the State Forest Fund lands for commercial use and for conservation
purposes. Submitting this plan for public discussion - gradually, ranging from 2002 to the end of 2005;
18.   Completing the main acti-vities related to allocation of the State Forest Fund lands for the
commercial use and for conservation - IV quarter of 2007;
19.   Supporting development of the small and medium business related to forest resource utilization.
Towards this end, developing regulations and investment programs for introducing pattems of the long term
forest use - IV quarter of 2007;
20.    Systematizing and introducing elements of the sustainable forest management with the purpose of
launching forest certification - IV qluarter of 2009.
IV. Financial Resources for Program Implementation
I .    Success of the sustainable development of forest sector substantially depends on the financial and
technical assistance to the Government of Georgia from the intemational and bilateral organizations.
2.     Georgia Forests Development Project to be funded from the World Bank credit over the period of
2002-2008 is a key element of this support and is aimed at.
- 115 -



(a)    Supporting (i) the forest sector management through introduction of the relevant legislative,
institutional and fiscal reforms; (ii) the public involvement for more efficient and transparent management
of forest sector; (iii) development of a competitive private sector for economically more viable and
multi-purpose use of forest resources that would also help to curb illegal and criminal activities in forest
sector and to increase revenues to the State budget.
(b)    Increasing sustainability of forests in cooperation with a GEF-funded Protected Areas
Development Project, though (i) introducing new methods of forest use planning (forest inventory based on
the landscape-ecological carcass and total economic valuation of forest resources); (ii) elaborating the new,
environmentally sound standards for forest use and for construction of forest roads as well as for
certification of forest users; (iii) Improving forest protection from pest and diseases, fire and illegal use,
supporting restoration of natural habitats and forest regeneration; (iv) increasing public awareness of the
environmental issues related to forest management and enhance public participation in forest use planning
and monitoring.
(c)    Contributing to poverty alleviation in rural areas though employing rural population for forest
inventories and reforestation/afforestation works, fuel wood supply programs and community forest
management projects. The policy reforns to be carried out under the Project would increase overall
employment in the domestic forest sector industries.
3.     In addition to the activities planned under the Georgia Forests Development Project, the
Government of Georgia is seeking international or bilateral financial support for
(a)    Assessing real demand on energy resources for heating - including fuel wood, identifying capacity
of the State Forest Fund to meet the existing demand for fuel wood and the perspectives of supplementing
fuel wood supply with alternative fuels with the purpose of curbing unlimited extraction of wood, causing
negative social and environmental impacts.
(b)    Restoring/creating forest plantation and shelterbelts; facilitating Georgia's compliance with
international obligation to manage emissions of greenhouse gases and anthropogenic impacts on climate, to
combat desertification and to increase agricultural productivity.
(c)    Promoting development of small and medium businesses in the forest sector for rational use of
non-wood forest resources, developing tourism and establishing hunting farmns with the overall purpose of
increasing employment and enhancing economic values of Georgia's forests.
Conclusion
Georgia, currently in a phase of transition towards market driven economy, has excellent opportunity to use
experience of other countries with introduction of the sustainable forest management aimed at conserving
biodiversity and avoiding irreversible damages to the environment. Implementation of the National Forest
Policy will require mobilization of existing scientific potential and close cooperation between govemmental
and nongovernmental organizations and the civil society. Cooperation with other sectors such as
agriculture, tourism, energy, etc. is also essential. Support from the intemational community and donor
organizations will be critical for the successful implementation of the Policy.
- 116 -



IBRD 31495
40                         41I                       42'                        423                       44                        45                       46-
GEORGIA
FORESTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
To                                                                                                                                                PROJECT AREAS
- c-t *'>*qRUSSIA                                 FEDERATIONm
,, { ' . sjw,-9 R U S S I A N E D F; A T I O B ; - ; ; i - i  .       .aL                                                                         IRBAN AREA
7,.=CITIES
- ''  OUD REPUBLIC CENTERS
-                i               . '  ' -LCAPITAL
_ L                                                                                                     T. ? -  "'  B REAS
Ut-  .RN                                                                                   ' - ". ,RT RO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADS
~~~~  C                           I                        -  -  "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'''- ONAL BOUNDARIES  42'
B I a c kA
Sea                                                                                                                                                          FEDRAIO
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B ef'                                      aA       ,   I tT          I 2X.1,                   -                     -   ,    42_  DERATIO
n;   .X!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qqI -              -, 1 
TBIU' ~ ~      ~        ~       ~       I
TURKEY
A -b   Mop                      I peU   T ..  .....  I-
TURKEY          'A                     .-~~T4,4oBN~--
O 6b4 4Uy."          0    1___ 0 ___6_75_ILOMTER                                ARMENIA
,,Bb,M.......                                              IfAZER BA IJA N
SEPTEMBER 2001






IBRD 31468
t0~                ,,.42                                 43                 4r                 45'               46
GEORGIA
FORESTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN FOREST TYPES AND PROJECT ACTIVITIES
T.
-~ INSTITUfTIONAL SUPPORT TO  BEECH IFAGUSI  SELECTED CITIES
RUSSIAN    F E D E R. AT I O N  FORSTg DSTPRIT TC        OAK OSERCUS   ' AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CENTERS
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COIMULN TY FORESTRY PROGRAS                             *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
SUPPORTED E THT PROJECT AND  HORNBEUAM (CARPINUS  RIVERS
0                                    B  I  :  c  k  a  j , I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OHE  ONOR
OTHER DONORS       ~~~~~~~~SPRUCE IP CEA)  GT000  LACIER AREAS
MAI N ROADS
-sn:  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--SECONDARY ROADS
TURKEY INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<L                                         2-                   _. :: . o<nFEDERATION
__ _ - l-oea                                        -I                                           .     1r'1 - iI L41 E FIAs ..4-4o\4 5{ 6
L  -SEt  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~~  ,'A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ SPETEt
LOTfl ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   V
I  ThiliRi     tl%f               T
bodoo-. b  TURKEY                 -       1r-
A  I . o'A-....o'       o .. 0.-d
TURKEY     'AkoTk.WoBBok0                                                            ARMENKIHA
0000 009000'00'0 ~ 0  IT  50  45  U0  75TKLCMoTTRS   IX Y L It
-  .o4;o~~ofoooo.oom  ___________________   r~~~~                               A Z E R BA IJA N
LAMIC REP. OP IRANI   A,2                 450'                                    A560
SEPR SI-0









IMAGING
RepoILi, No:      24156  GE
Type:    PAD



