Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3699-GE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Forests Development Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 3, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3699-GE 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 2002, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:  
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a)  
“Central Caucasus Pilot Area” means the territory 
of
the Borrower
’s 
districts of Ambrolauri, Lentekhi, Mestia, Oni, Tsageri and of such other district or 
districts agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association
 for the carrying out Part B of 
the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;  
 
(e) 
“FSDC” means the Forest Sector Development Center, a legal entity 
established by the President of the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower’s law “On Legal 
Bodies of Public Law”, dated May 28,1999, with the purpose of preparation and 
implementation of the Project and operating on the basis of its charter dated October 29, 
2000 as it may be amended from time to time, or any successor or successors thereto;  
 
(f)  
“Lari” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;  
 
(g)  
“Letter of Forest Sector Development Policy” means a letter, satisfactory 
to the Association, discussed and adopted at a meeting of the Government of the 
Borrower and signed by the State Minister
 
of the Borrower or any other person 
designated by the Borrower, outlining the reform agenda and plan for improving 
governance and curbing corruption and illegal activities in the forest sector;  
 
(h)  
“MEPNR” means the Ministry of Environment and Protection of Natural 
Resources of the Borrower, or any successor or successors thereto;  
 
(i)  
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or any successor 
or successors thereto;  
 
(j) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be adopted by the Supervisory Board as hereinafter defined, setting forth procedures 
and rules related to Project implementation, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;  
 
(k) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project prepared by FSDC and adopted by the Supervisory Board, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;  
 
(l)  
“Priority Areas” means the territories 
of
the Borrower
,
selected by the 
SFD for the carrying out Part C of the Project, in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the 
PIP, and acceptable to the Association, and “Priority Area” means each 
and any such territory;
 
(m) 
“Project Account” means the account to be opened by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement for purposes of making 
available its counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project;  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n)  
“Project Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators agreed upon by the 
Borrower and  the Association, to monitor and evaluate, on ongoing basis, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of Project objectives, referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and set forth in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
 
(o) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on March 16, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 19, 
2000; 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(q) 
“SFD” means the Borrower’s State Department of Forest Management or 
any successor or successors thereto; and 
 
(r) 
“Supervisory Board” means the inter-agency Project supervisory board 
established by the Borrower as the top collegial body of the FSDC, and whose members 
include representatives of the MEPNR, MOF, SFD and other parties approved by the 
Borrower, and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, or any 
successor or successors thereto.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. 
(a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2012 and ending April 1, 2042. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2022 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) Whene
ver: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, engineering, forestry and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project Account referred to in 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account, if necessary, promptly 
every quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (b) use the amount in said Project 
Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (c) ensure 
that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the 
Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, through SFD on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall through FSDC: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not  later  than  six  months  after  the  end  of  each  such  year:          
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and    
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall through FSDC: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in 
Sections 3.04 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall through FSDC prepare and furnish  
to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
 
(i)  
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective 
Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the PIP, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated or waived without the Association’s prior consent; and (b) the 
Page  10
-
9
-
Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without 
the Association’s prior consent. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness 
of 
the 
Development 
Credit 
Agreement 
within 
the 
meaning 
of             
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely the Borrower has opened the Project 
Account in Lari and has deposited into said Account an initial amount equivalent to 
$50,000.  
 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
70,
Irakli Abashidze Str. 
 
380062
Tbilisi 
 
Georgia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
212 348 MOFIN SV 
(995-32) 931922 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI)     or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By  /s/  Mirian Gogiashvili 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Tevfik M. Yaprak 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of 
 
Credit Allocated 
 
     % of  
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
 
(a)  for Parts A, B and 
 
C.1 of the Project 
2,570,000 
 
70% 
 
(b)  for Part C.2 of 
 
the Project 
3,270,000 
 
70% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,890,000 
100% of foreign expenditures;  
 
100%
of local expenditures   
 
(ex-factory cost); and  
 
80%
of local expenditures for   
 
other items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services, 
2,960,000 
80% for local firms and  
 
including audit costs 
 
individuals; 
 
90%
for international firms  
 
and individuals; and 
 
100%
for eligible social charges 
 
(4) Training, 
workshops 
and 
350,000 
 
100% 
 
study tours 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Amount of 
 
Credit Allocated 
 
     % of  
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(5) 
Incremental operating 
190,000 
80% until June 30, 2003; 
 
costs 
 
70% until June 30, 2004; 
 
60%
until June 30, 2005; 
 
50%
until June 30, 2006; and 
 
40%
thereafter. 
 
(6) 
Refunding of Project 
800,000 
Amount due pursuant to 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
Section 2.02(b) of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
570,000
TOTAL 12,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable operating 
expenditures incurred by the FSDC on account of management of Project implementation 
for communications, utilities, printing and publications, supplies, office security systems, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, equipment and software upgrades, transportation and 
field trip expenses, bank charges, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by 
the Association; and 
 
(d)  
the term “eligible social charges” means the employers’ contribution to 
social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on the employment contracts with 
citizens of the Borrower.  
 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) category 1(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the 
Borrower has approved mechanisms for sustainable provision of funding for public forest 
management for afforestation and reforestation. 
 
4.  
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$300,000 equivalent each and forest works contracts estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) training, workshops and study tours; (d) Incremental 
Operating Costs for the FSDC; and (e) services costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each for consulting firms and $25,000 equivalent each for individual consultants, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to establish sound forest management systems 
which would maximize the contribution of forests to the Borrower’s economic 
development and rural poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Improvement of Forest Sector Governance through  
 
National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional Reforms
Improvement of legal, regulatory, financial and policy framework in accordance 
with the Borrower’s Letter of Forest Sector Development Policy, development of the 
national forest policy, including standards and forest certification, strengthening of 
institutions and human resources and building public support for improved forest 
management and monitoring through the financing of goods, services, training and 
incremental operating costs.  
 
Part B
:
Improved Forest Planning and Management in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area
Development of landscape-ecological plans and improved forest inventories, 
establishment of a forest management information system for improved forest 
management planning and monitoring, demonstration of environmental forest harvesting 
and road operations for forest management in compliance with environmental standards 
and forest management plans, and development and implementation of pilot community 
forestry programs in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area for dissemination of best practices 
in other territories of the Borrower through the financing of goods, works, services, 
training and incremental operating costs.  
 
Part C
:
Forest Protection and Reforestation in the Priority Areas
1.  
Strengthening of forest inspection and enforcement for verification of local forest 
operations, improvement of forest hazard management, pest and fire monitoring, 
development of seed and nursery facilities and planning of reforestation and afforestation 
in the Priority Areas – through the financing of goods, works, services, training and 
incremental operating costs. 
 
2.  
Implementation of a pilot program of reforestation and afforestation with 
community participation in the Priority Areas for dissemination of best practices in other 
territories of the Borrower through the financing of works. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part D:
Project Management and Monitoring
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including 
procurement related activities, training in the management, implementation and 
monitoring of the Project, design and implementation of a system of financial 
management and accounting, preparation of the accounts and financial statements 
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, audit of the accounts and financial 
statements referred to above, and institutional strengthening of the FSDC through the 
financing of goods, works, services (including external auditing services), training and 
incremental operating costs.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a)  the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, information technology and 
supplies shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each.  
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically 
manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and forest 
works contracts estimated to cost less than $ 500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,610,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
2. International 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or less equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $248,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
3. Procurement 
from 
IAPSO.
As an alternative to international shopping procedures under paragraph 2 above, 
goods may be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) 
of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,450,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) eligible and qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a)  
With respect to (i) each contract for goods and works procured in 
accordance with international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first two 
contracts procured in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b)  
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; (ii) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
national shopping procedures; and (iii) the first two contracts procured in accordance 
with small works procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
or any contractor under small works procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of the contract procured under shopping 
procedures or under small works procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and  
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $120,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) above, the terms of 
reference for the employment of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval irrespective of the value of the contract. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
Without limitations upon the generalities of the obligations in Section 3.01 (a),  
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the Letter of Forest Sector Development Policy, the Operational Manual 
and the PIP. 
 
2. 
During execution of the Project site specific environmental impact assessments, 
satisfactory to the Association, will be prepared and environmental permits issued in 
accordance with such environmental impact assessments.  
 
3. Supervisory 
Board
.
The Supervisory Board shall be responsible for strategic 
oversight and inter agency coordination of the Project. 
 
4. SFD
.
The SFD shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project and 
coordination and monitoring of the technical aspects of the Project and participate in the 
work of the Supervisory Board. 
 
5. MOF
.
The MOF shall be responsible for monitoring of the financial aspects of 
the Credit and participate in the work of the Supervisory Board. 
 
6. MEPNR
.
The MEPNR shall be responsible for the monitoring of the 
environmental aspects of the Project in accordance with the environmental legislation of 
the Borrower  and participate in the work of the Supervisory Board. 
 
7. FSDC
.
The Borrower shall ensure that the FSDC shall:  
 
(a)  
assist the SFD in the implementation  of the Project and coordination and 
monitoring of the technical aspects of the Project;  
 
(b)  
be responsible for day-to-day administrative aspects of the Project, 
including financial management, procurement, disbursement, engagement of external 
auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their dissemination to 
relevant agencies of the Borrower and to the Association;  
 
(c)  
prepare quarterly progress reports in respect of the Project and furnish 
them to the Supervisory Board and the Association not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, the first such report to be furnished to the Association not later than 
December 31, 2002; and  
 
Page  23
-
22
-
(d) 
for each calendar year during the implementation of the Project, prepare 
and furnish for approval to the Association by August 1 of the preceding year, a proposed 
annual budget, annual work plan, and annual procurement plan, all in such detail as shall 
be reasonably requested.  
 
8.  
The Borrower shall ensure that until the completion of the Project, the FSDC 
functions in a manner, with qualified staff and consultants, and with facilities and other 
resources necessary for the Project and satisfactory to the Association.  The Borrower 
shall ensure that the FSDC carries out its activities and responsibilities under the Project 
in accordance with the above annual work and procurement plans, budget, the Operating 
Manual, and the PIP. 
 
9. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
.
(a) The Borrower shall through SFD 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators (the Project Monitoring Indicators) set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule 4, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof. 
 
(b) 
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall, through the 
FSDC, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about March 31, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 9, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding year, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.  
 
(c) 
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower, through the 
Supervisory Board, shall review with the Association, by April 30 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this     
paragraph 9, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Annex 
 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators 
 
1. 
Increase in public forest revenues per unit of area from improved forest 
monitoring, fee collection mechanisms and more efficient resource use in project areas. 
 
2. 
Increase in area covered by forest inventory carried out in accordance with the 
improved methodology and management plans and managed by properly trained and 
equipped forest management units. 
 
3. 
Decrease in area of degraded lands through priority afforestation, restoration and 
protection programs for the shelter belts, eroded areas and coppice forests. 
 
4. 
Improve affordability of fuelwood as well as increase the revenues for local 
population through improved forest management programs. 
 
5. 
Increase in public support for sustainable forest management and participation of  
civil society in forest management and monitoring. 
 
6. 
Procurement, disbursement, reporting and Project management undertaken 
according to an agreed upon implementation plan and within the agreed budget. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services, Sub-grants and operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.  
 
(c)    
The  term  “Authorized  Allocation”  means  an  amount  equivalent  to  
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Page  26
-
25
-
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or   
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  28
-
27
-
M:\BACKUP\GEORGIA\W-1835NegotiatedDCA.doc 
5/16/2002 10:55 AM
 
