                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000920




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-36990)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 15.67 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                    GEORGIA

                                     FOR A

                      FORESTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   May 28, 2009




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective 5/27/2009)

             Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
                     GEL 1.00 = US$ 0.608
                     US$ 1.00 = GEL 1.643

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    1 January ­ 31 December

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CCPA    Central Caucasus Pilot Area
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
FD      Forestry Department
FM      Financial Management
FMIS    Forest Management Information System
FMP     Forest management plan
FMR     Financial management report
FSDC    Forest Sector Development Center
GEF     Global Environment Facility
IDA     International Development Association
INT     Department of Institutional Integrity
LIL     Learning and innovation loan
m       Million
MEPNR   Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
MTR     Mid-term review
NGO     Non-governmental organization
OPG     Office of the Prosecutor General
PAD     Project appraisal document
PADP    Protected Areas Development Project
PDO     Project Development Objective
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SA      Social Assessment
SDPIA   Sustainable Development Projects Implementation Agency
SFD     State Forestry Department
SIL     Sector investment loan
SOE     Statement of expenditures
TEV     Total economic valuation
USD     United States Dollars


                  Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
               Country Director: Asad Alam
                 Sector Manager: John Kellenberg
           Project Team Leader: Andrey Kushlin
              ICR Team Leader: Andrey Kushlin

                                              GEORGIA
                               Forests Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................... 1
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 3
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................. 5
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................................... 6
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR....................... 7
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 12
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 13
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Forests Development
Country:               Georgia                Project Name:
                                                                    Project
Project ID:            P044800                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36990
ICR Date:              05/29/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    GEORGIA
Original Total
                       XDR 12.6M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 5.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environment Protection and Natural Resources
Sustainable Devt. Projects Impl. Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/10/1999    Effectiveness:                         04/22/2003
Appraisal:             09/13/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/01/2002    Mid-term Review:      11/20/2006       11/20/2006
                                     Closing:              06/30/2009       06/30/2009


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators         (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                     Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                          18                 18
Central government administration                            41                 41
Forestry                                                     41                 41


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                        29               29
Improving labor markets                                        14               14
Other environment and natural resources management             29               29
Participation and civic engagement                             14               14
Rural services and infrastructure                              14               14


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Asad Alam                       Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:           John V. Kellenberg              Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader:      Andrey V. Kushlin               Andrey V. Kushlin
ICR Team Leader:          Andrey V. Kushlin
ICR Primary Author:       Tijen Arin



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To establish sound forest management systems, which would maximize the contribution
of Georgia's forests to economic development and rural poverty reduction on an
environmentally sustainable basis.



                                            ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
                Increase in public forest revenues per area of resource from improved forest
Indicator 1 :   monitoring, fee collection mechanisms and more efficient resource use in
                Project areas (GEL/ha)
Value
quantitative or 33.5                        41.9                              Not available (see

Qualitative)                                                                  note)

Date achieved 04/15/2001                    05/27/2009                        06/13/2008

Comments        Data for this indicator were not provided by the Borrower. It was agreed in late

(incl. %        2006 that the indicator would be redefined as per forest sector reform and the

achievement)    target value would be redefined after Project restructuring. However, it never
                occurred.
                Forest area covered by forest inventory and improved multiple-purpose
Indicator 2 :   management plans and managed by properly trained and equipped forest
                management units ('000 ha)
Value
quantitative or 0                           540                1,806          550 (see note)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/15/2001                    05/27/2009         11/15/2006     06/13/2008

Comments        By November 2006, 550,000 ha had been inventoried. Target was increased to

(incl. %        1,806,000 ha at Mid-term review in November 2006. However, inventory

achievement)    contracts were stopped in April 2007 when the Public Prosecutor#s investigation
                was launched.

Indicator 3 :   Decrease in area of degraded lands through afforestation, reforestation and
                protection of shelterbelts, eroded areas and wetland forests (ha)
Value
quantitative or 0                           8,700              2,850          308 (see note)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/14/2001                    05/27/2009         11/15/2006     06/13/2008

Comments        308 ha had been afforested / reforested by November 2006, when the target area

(incl. %        was reduced. In April 2007, all contracts were stopped due to investigation.

achievement)    Degradation may not have stopped on these 308 ha as they have not been
                maintained properly.

Indicator 4 :   Improved affordability of fuelwood for local population and increase of their
                revenues through improved forest management programs
Value
quantitative or A baseline value not         A target value                   Not available (see

Qualitative)    determied                   was not defined                   note)

Date achieved 04/14/2001                    05/27/2009                        06/13/2008



                                                 iii

Comments       A complicated indicator difficult to measure: neither a baseline nor a target value

(incl. %       was defined. An outcome indicator of #forest-related revenues accruing to

achievement)   households in participating communities# would have been measurable through
               household surveys.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
               Increase in public support for sustainable forest management and participation of
Indicator 1 :  civil society in forest management and monitoring (# of participants in 'hotline'
               feedback per year)
Value
(quantitative  0                          700                                Not available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/14/2001                  05/27/2009                         06/13/2008

Comments       In October 2005, 550 calls were reported. However, monitoring of this indicator

(incl. %       was discontinued in 2006 and at Mid-term review it was agreed that the

achievement)   indicator would be redefined along with Project restructuring. However, this has
               not happened.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     10/09/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     03/10/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     10/16/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.31
  4     03/29/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.05
  5     11/02/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.57
  6     06/29/2005            Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 4.24
  7     01/23/2006            Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 5.62

  8     06/15/2006            Moderately                Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      6.06

  9     02/01/2007            Moderately                Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      7.33

  10    02/03/2008          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                      8.66



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Some 40 percent of Georgia's 70,000km2 are forested. Not only do forests have
substantial cultural, economic, and spiritual value for 5.5 million Georgians, but also they
contribute significantly to global biodiversity. Considerable international market demand
exists for several high-value tree species native to Georgia. During the post-Soviet era,
large segments of rural communities depended on the forests for fuelwood to heat their
homes and cook their food because alternative energy sources were unreliable and
unaffordable.

During Project design, over 80 percent of forested land was state-managed (of which only
one-fifth was classified as production forest; the rest being protection and recreation
forest), and 20 percent was managed by agricultural farms and communities. The State
Forestry Department (SFD) managed state forests, was responsible for forest policy, and
reported directly to the Office of the President. The SFD auctioned seasonal harvesting
rights for cutting blocks to commercial operators in exchange for stumpage fees, which
were set by SFD. The SFD comprised a central office in Tbilisi, 48 district offices, 2,637
staff members, a park, and a nursery. In addition, three specialized forest entities were in-
house consultants for seed selection and testing, forest inventory, and management
planning. Key sector issues included the following:

 Weak legal, institutional, and financial frameworks for sustainable management.
    Although a modern Forest Code had been newly enacted, underlying regulations for
    its implementation were not duly updated; budgets and real salaries were declining,
    which limited SFD ability to manage and protect the forests; stumpage fees rarely
    reflected accurate market value of timber, reducing state revenues; short-term
    harvesting rights gave commercial loggers no incentives to maintain sustainable
    logging operations; local administrations had inadequate commitment to sustainable
    forestry; and local people were not participants in forest management.

 Lack of comprehensive forest management planning. Only 17 percent of state forests
    had updated forest management plans (FMPs). The SFD inventories were too
    outdated for adequate planning, monitoring, and pricing, and FMPs focused
    exclusively on harvesting timber, ignoring landscape and biodiversity values.

 Degradation of forest lands due to illegal and unsustainable forest utilization. Illegal
    logging for fuelwood and export markets from accessible forest areas, coupled with
    the use of highly inefficient and rudimentary extraction practices, triggered erosion
    and damaged valuable forest ecosystems. Poorly protected forests were vulnerable to
    pest infestations; SFD and the environmental enforcement agency lacked equipment
    and skills to monitor and counteract increasing levels of forest degradation; and
    funding shortages halted forestation of degraded areas.




                                           1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective was to establish sound forest management systems to
maximize the contribution of Georgia's forests to economic development and rural
poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis. Key indicators were:

 Increase in public forest revenues per unit area from improved forest monitoring, fee
    collection mechanism, and more efficient resource use in Project areas;
 Increase in area covered by forest, inventory carried out in accordance with the
    improved methodology and management plans, and managed by properly trained and
    equipped forest management units;
 Decrease in area of degraded lands through priority afforestation, reforestation and
    protection programs for shelterbelts, eroded areas, and coppice forests;
 Improved affordability of fuelwood for local population and increase of their
    revenues through improved forest management programs; and
 Increase in public support for sustainable forest management, and participation of
    civil society in forest management and monitoring.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the PDO or the key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project Development Objective identified two population groups as direct
beneficiaries: (i) About 70,000 people in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (CCPA) would
enjoy increased revenues from timber and non-wood forest products, and improved
access to fuelwood and grazing resources due to improved forest planning and
management practices; and (ii) rural communities in the priority reforestation areas
would benefit from reduced erosion of slopes, and improved agricultural yields. Another
beneficiary group is SFD professional staff, who would upgrade their skills and increase
their job satisfaction due to training, improved management planning, and equipment.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had four components:

Component 1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory,
Financial and Institutional Reforms (US$3.87 million comprising US$2.94 million
IDA as well as Government of Georgia funds). This component aimed to strengthen
legal, institutional, and regulatory mechanisms to permit implementation of the Forest
Code and support sustainable forest management, as follows.
 Improving legal, regulatory, and policy frameworks by drafting laws on forest
    privatization and community forest regulations; establishing clear mandates for SFD
    in its normative, regulatory, and forest management responsibilities; generating
    recommendations for sustainable financing mechanisms for SFD activities;
    developing a new/improved National Forest Strategy;



                                            2

 Developing a national forest program, standards, and certification, including a
   common measuring system for timber export used by customs and foresters, and
   national forest standards and monitoring/certification procedures;
 Strengthening institutions and human resources for improved forest management and
   monitoring through SFD staff training in improved forest management and
   participatory techniques, and training of university forestry students in improved
   forest management; and
 Building public support for sustainable forest management by raising awareness
   about the economic and environmental importance of forests among stakeholders and
   the general public.
These activities would contribute to the PDO, "establishment of sound forest
management systems," by strengthening the legal and institutional basis for such systems.

Component 2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot
Area (CCPA) (US$5.44 million comprising US$4.43 million IDA as well as
Government of Georgia funds). This component aimed to develop an integrated
framework of new, economically sound and environmentally sustainable approaches to
forest management and operations, and testing their implementation in the CCPA, which
comprises 16 percent of Georgia's forests. Envisaged activities included the following:

 Developing improved forest inventories of 250,000 ha, including timber, biodiversity,
   geological, and geodynamic information, to enable comprehensive forest
   management planning;
 Establishing a Forest Management Information System (FMIS) for improved forest
   management planning and monitoring;
 Developing forest management plans (FMPs) with primary objectives that include
   protected area and wildlife management, commercial and community fuelwood and
   grazing, management for forest and non-wood products;
 Demonstrating environmentally friendly forest harvesting and road operations,
   including rehabilitation of 100 km of forest roads and construction of 75 km of roads
   in accordance with new forestry standards and FMPs;
 Developing and implementing Pilot Community Forestry Programs in two districts,
   focusing on fuelwood supply and community forest management.
The Project sought to establish critical technical elements of "sound forest management
systems," including comprehensive forest management planning, monitoring using
modern information systems, and environmentally friendly harvesting and road
operations. Achieving these outputs in Georgia's large and highly valuable timber and
biodiversity-rich forests was intended to establish a strong basis for replication in other
areas of the country. Pilot community forestry programs aimed to contribute to PDO
poverty alleviation because lack of fuelwood access correlated highly with rural poverty.

Component 3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas (US$8.84
million, comprising US$6.46 million IDA and Government of Georgia funds). This
component aimed to strengthen, restore, and develop national forest inspection and
monitoring, forest protection, seed improvement and nursery systems and practices; and




                                           3

establish forestation demonstration sites based on economic, social, and environmentally
sustainable principles in priority areas. This included:
 Strengthening forest protection and inspection services by establishing a mobile
    inspectorate unit to audit district-level forest operations, strengthening enforcement in
    the Central Caucasus and other selected priority areas through logistical support and
    equipment for forest guards; supporting pest and fire monitoring and providing forest
    hazard protection equipment; and refurbishing and equipping the Institute of
    Mountain Forestry forest protection laboratory;
 Improving seed production and processing by creating modern facilities, providing
    equipment for testing and seed collection, and training;
 Developing nursery facilities, including constructing nursery and administrative
    buildings, an irrigation system, nursery equipment and machinery, supporting nursery
    activities, and training SFD nursery staff;
 Supporting afforestation of 3,100 ha and reforestation 5,700 ha in priority areas
    through private contracts and local employment.

These outputs would contribute to the PDO by improving forest health and economic
value and by employing local people in reforestation to help reduce rural poverty.

Component 4. Project Management and Monitoring (US$2.10 million comprising
US$0.85 million IDA and Government of Georgia funds). Good technical and
fiduciary project management would support achievement of the PDO and help secure
public support. The Project would be managed by the Forest Sector Development Center,
which would report to the SFD on technical matters and to the Ministry of Finance on
fiduciary matters, and operate under the direction of an inter-agency Supervisory Board.
Key activities supported under this Component were daily project management,
procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. In 2004, SFD was
merged into the reorganized Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
(MEPNR) and renamed into the Forestry Department (FD).

1.6 Revised Components

Several revisions to Project activities were carried out following supervision missions in
January 2005 and October 2005. Key revisions included: (i) incorporating the Borjomi
area in Component 2 due to increased illegal harvesting and pest outbreaks in that area;
(ii) extend level 1 inventory activities to the rest of the country (i.e., an additional
1,300,000 ha) to help Government design its planned long-term leasing program; and (iii)
scale back FMIS to levels appropriate to FD capacity. These revisions supported the PDO
and Project Component outcomes, so they were not presented to the Board as a
restructuring.

Project restructuring was agreed upon with the MEPNR during the 2006 Midterm Review
(MTR) mission; however, soon after a new FD Director took office and had a new vision
for the Project, therefore the agreed Project restructuring was never implemented.
Intensive dialogue between FD and the Bank team never resulted in finalizing a new
agreement on Project restructuring.




                                             4

1.7 Other significant changes
No other significant changes to Project design occurred before Project cancellation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Sound background analysis

Project design was built on an intensive policy dialogue with the Government of Georgia
that had begun in 1996. Project preparation included useful additional analysis, but some
elements that later proved critical during implementation were missed. Key steps in the
dialogue prior to formal Project preparation were as follows:
 Forest Sector Note (1996). A Government Forestry Commission convened by the
    President of Georgia requested Bank assistance to develop a new policy to counteract
    the rising trend of illegal and indiscriminate tree harvesting and financial problems in
    the forest sector. Drawing on Eastern European experience, the Bank provided a
    policy note with recommendations regarding: (1) potential imbalances in the forest
    sector between the competing roles of conservation and commerce; (2) financial
    implications of alternative forest strategies; and (3) the deteriorating control of illegal
    tree felling;
 Forestry policy dialogue in the framework of the Structural Adjustment Credit series
    between 1996-99, which focused on potential revenue streams associated with timber
    trade, and pricing mechanisms to improve sector efficiency;
 National Environmental Action Plan, including forestry issues funded by an IDF
    grant; and
 A forest policy note in response to a 1999-2000 emergency export ban imposed by
    Government to stop illegal timber trade. The note proposed free trade of timber in
    conjunction with institutional strengthening for better law enforcement.

Building on this dialogue, Project preparation included several specific analyses:

 A Project Preparation Analysis carried out during 1998-99 by the UN Food and
    Agriculture Organization Cooperation Program and documented in the "Georgia
    National Forestry Development Program Preparation Report." The analysis was
    carried out in close consultation with Georgian stakeholders, including SFD, Ministry
    of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources (MEPNR) and laid out a
    preliminary Project design;
 A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) and a preliminary Total Economic
    Valuation (TEV) Study of Georgian forests was carried out in 2000.                   They
    specifically indicated that the total value to Georgian society of timber and non-
    timber products and environmental services would be higher if increased logging was
    permitted under a program of environmentally sound management--rather than the
    value forests were providing under conditions of unenforced legal limits on timber
    extraction, and wasteful, environmentally unsustainable logging; and
 A Social Assessment (SA) was carried out in the Central Caucasus Pilot Area
    (CCPA). The SA identified primary stakeholders, social development issues,



                                            5

   institutional and organizational dimensions, implications for Project design and
   implementation, and recommendations for Project monitoring indicators and
   evaluation. The SA found a strong correlation between poverty levels and the need to
   cut wood for heating and cooking; a widespread lack of awareness about forestry
   management issues coupled with disapproval of excessive tree cutting and support for
   restrictions; lack of consensus among forest management agencies on forest policy;
   weak enforcement of illegal wood cutting; and lack of opportunities for public
   participation in forest management.

Despite these comprehensive inputs, analysis of institutional and legal issues that would
affect planned Project activities in community forestry, afforestation, and reforestation
was inadequate. In fact, the FAO Project Preparation Analysis explicitly excluded
community forestry, suggesting that it would be more appropriate under a rural
development project.

Lessons learned and incorporated in Project design:
 Experience with project implementation in Georgia and elsewhere in the Europe and
   Central Asia Region (ECA) had indicated that strong ownership by key political,
   technical, and community stakeholders was key to Project success. During Project
   preparation, high-level governmental stakeholders were very committed, but it
   appears that community stakeholder commitment was not as secure, as evidenced by
   the failure of the community forestry program.
 The overall Georgia portfolio suffered difficulties with counterpart funding, financial
   management, and procedures for VAT, social charges, and tax payments. The Project
   Appraisal Document noted these difficulties and predicted that they could be
   overcome at a country program level with additional support and oversight from the
   World Bank country office in Tbilisi.
 Projects spanning a period of significant change in policy direction, as well as
   political volatility, require enhanced engagement/supervision. This should include
   bringing in outside experts, mobilizing senior Bank management, and flexibly
   shifting the focus of the Project while retaining overall goals (which indeed the Bank
   did). Unfortunately even when this is done, the gap between the Borrower and the
   Bank may simply be too big and the best approach is to recognize this as quickly as
   possible and close the Project. Yet even in such disengagement situations, the Bank
   has a responsibility to continue to provide its professional views.

The Bank had a significant history of cooperation in the forestry sector, including two
GEF-financed biodiversity conservation projects; the Bank has encouraged and convened
technical and political forest policy debates and facilitated coordination of forest
management and conservation interests; and the Bank has experience in transition
countries and a strong program of ongoing support to Georgia's overall economic
development agenda.

Assessment of Project design

The PDO captured the Government's vision of forest policy reform; the PDO was
adequately broad, given the scale of transition underway in the sector. The PDO was
supported by the scope and composition of funded activities. The Pilot Community


                                          6

Forestry Program was appropriately limited to a few communities (in the Oni and
Ambrolauri districts) because clear institutional and legal mechanisms were lacking and
needed to be defined and tested at a local level to capture lessons in legal and institutional
reforms that could subsequently be applied nation-wide. However, the high levels of
uncertainty regarding the expected outcomes of the Pilot Community Forestry Program
rendered the PDO notion of "contribution to rural poverty reduction" unrealistic.

The Project's aim to support wide-ranging forest policy revision was realistic since the
1999 Forest Code laid out Georgia's vision for the sector in broad terms that were
anticipated to be operationalized by the Project, including a national policy agenda and
legal framework. The Government prepared a Forest Policy Development Letter that
confirmed this vision; it was approved by the Prime Minister and submitted to the Bank
prior to presentation of the Project to the Bank's Board. In hindsight, a lesson learned
was that Georgia's lack of a National Strategy did not prevent good Project performance.
Rather, political decisions taken during Project implementation derailed it.

Although institutional capacity was low, Project implementation experience indicates that
capacity was not a significant limitation to innovative activities included in the Project. In
fact, the most complex technical Project component was developing state-of-the-art forest
inventories, which were carried out remarkably well until all inventory and reforestation
contracts were suspended by the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG). However, low
institutional capacity was an impediment with regard to FD adopting total economic
valuation method as a stumpage estimation and forest management planning tool.
Similarly, Project design assumptions proved to be unrealistic regarding FD's
institutional capacity to engage rural communities in implementation of afforestation,
reforestation and fuelwood programs.

Government commitment

Strong Government commitment was evidenced by the Forest Sector Development Letter
that was signed by the Prime Minister and included in the Project Appraisal Document
prior to the submission of the Project for consideration to the World Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. Project preparation analyses were instrumental in consolidating the
previously contradictory positions of various Government agencies towards a unified
stance regarding the forest sector reform agenda.

Assessment of risks

The three substantial "from outputs to objective" risks were reasonable but incomplete.
The risks identified included: (i) difficulty implementing improved forest management
financing fails to increase forest revenues for the Treasury; (ii) illegal logging levels do
not decline; and (iii) inter-agency cooperation is difficult--especially between the SFD
and MEPNR. Other substantial risks included: (a) weakness of legal and institutional
frameworks might stall or delay the community forestry and afforestation programs; and
(b) too few qualified commercial companies might result in delays to inventory and
forestation activities a risk that was not identified during Project design or appraisal. The
Rose Revolution of 2003 and the ensuing political and policy reforms in 2004-2007 that
occurred in the country during Project implementation dramatically transformed the
Government's approach to natural resource management, which could not have been
anticipated at appraisal.


                                             7

2.2 Implementation

The Project became effective in April 2003; implementation was Satisfactory for about
one year after effectiveness. After that, Project implementation slowed and the Project
was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in June 2005 and Moderately Unsatisfactory
in June 2006. During the Mid-term Review mission (November-December 2006), a plan
for Project restructuring was agreed between the Bank and Government. However,
Project restructuring was not carried out because in April 2007, MEPNR announced a
new forest policy that represented a complete change of direction; simultaneously, the
Government suspended all major inventory and afforestation / reforestation contracts
funded by the Project, and auctioned four long-term forest leases. The auction did not
conform to the sustainable forest management principles implicit in the PDO, since it was
conducted in the absence of adequate legal frameworks, institutional capacity, and forest
inventory information.

In mid-2007, intensive deliberations at political and technical levels, including
discussions with development partners and local NGOs, led to optimism that common
ground might be found. The Bank presented a note to the Government that outlined
essential elements for forest leasing and related regulations--minimal requirements for
continued Bank engagement. However, as the Government was unable to meet these
requirements, the Project was suspended in April 2008. The suspension letter specified
four corrective actions to be taken by the Government by June 12, 2008; these conditions
were not met and the credit was cancelled. The total IDA credit was SDR 12.6 million, of
which SDR 5.9 million had been disbursed, and SDR 6.7m (about US$10.97 million) was
cancelled. (For a detailed chronology see Annex 2A).

Three key factors explain this sequence of events:

 Significant changes occurred in natural resource management policy: Following the
    2003 Rose Revolution, the new Government wanted a complete transfer of forest
    management to private operators and intended to implement long-term leases
    ("licenses for long-term rights of use of forest resources") as soon as possible. In
    principle, such leases were consistent with the 1999 Forest Code and the PDO.
    However, the new Government rejected the idea of first establishing the regulatory
    and institutional frameworks that would ensure the environmental sustainability of
    private sector operations; also, the Government refused to undertake state
    intervention to provide public goods, such as erosion control through forestation,
    which conflicted with the PDO emphasis on environmental sustainability.
    Consequently, Project activities that aimed to strengthen institutional and regulatory
    frameworks (Component 1) were abandoned and the seed and nursery facilities
    developed under Component 3 were not utilized because Government rejected public
    forestation activities.
 Public institutions involved in Project implementation were destabilized. The new
    Government brought changes in Forest Department (FD) management and MEPNR.
    For example, in 2004, the FD was subordinated to MEPNR; likewise, during Project
    implementation, the Director of the Forest Department changed six times and the
    Minister of Environment changed seven times. Furthermore, in 2005 Government
    initiated a reform of all project implementation units (PIUs) changing their legal
    status and merging them into respective line ministries as subordinate entities. In the


                                           8

    case of MEPNR, several PIUs were merged into a Sustainable Development Projects
    Implementation Agency (SDPIA). Lengthy implementation of this reform triggered
    high staff turnover. Due to constant institutional discontinuity and lack of authorizing
    environment for day-to-day operations, most agreements reached during supervision
    missions were not adequately implemented. During 2006, compounding the stalemate
    in Project implementation, SDPIA staff were preoccupied by regular multi-month
    Auditing Chamber reviews.
 Project contracts were investigated by the Prosecutor General. An Auditing
    Chamber report alleged possible irregularities in some Project procurement, which
    launched investigations by the Financial Police. In April 2007, the Prosecutor General
    Office took over the investigation and the Project became moribund; all main
    contracts (e.g., inventories, reforestation) were officially suspended. The investigation
    was still underway when the IDA credit was cancelled in June 2008.

These findings are consistent with those of the QAG Supervision Review held in 2006;
the QAG concluded that four main factors were responsible for unsatisfactory Project
implementation: (i) the Rose Revolution's new Government brought in sweeping policy
changes and resisted Bank advice; (ii) when the Prime Minister died in 2005, the Project
lost its primary champion. His death precipitated constant change among policy-makers
in charge of the Project, which was disruptive and stalled implementation; (iii)
difficulties with procurement of small works impeded the timely launch of pilot
activities; and (iv) MEPNR merged three Project Implementation Units, causing major
disruptions and delays in processing and management functions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation

Project monitoring indicators were developed with strong client participation and may be
considered moderately satisfactory.

 Indicators measuring government revenues and public support for sustainable forest
    management were appropriate.
 The indicator, "decrease in area of degraded lands through afforestation," measures
    an output rather than an outcome. Nevertheless, outcome indicators related to this
    output such as "reduction in the rate of soil erosion" or "increase in yields in adjacent
    farm land" would have been difficult if not impossible to measure during the Project
    life. Under these conditions, the indicator chosen to monitor Project performance was
    appropriate.
 Similarly, "increase in forest area covered by forest inventory," and "improved
    multiple-purpose management plans," and "managed by properly trained and
    equipped forest management units," measure processes rather than outcomes. These
    were linked to the outcome, "contribution to the economy". However, measurement
    of this outcome directly would have presupposed the use of the TEV methodology
    which the Project was to introduce only several years into implementation. Since
    achieving the PDO depended in part on developing inventories and management
    plans, this indicator was appropriate.




                                             9

 The indicator, "improved affordability of fuelwood for local population and increased
    their revenues through improved forest management programs," was less well­
    defined and too difficult to measure. Instead, an indicator such as "forest-related
    revenues accruing to households in participating communities," would have been
    easier to measure through household surveys.
 Baseline data existed on indicators for: (i) public forest revenues, (ii) area of forest
    inventory, (iii) reduction in degraded area, and (iv) public support; that said, no
    reliable baseline data existed for fuelwood affordability.

M&E implementation

During a 2003 Bank supervision mission, it was agreed that SFD would clarify outcome
indicators to improve measurement accuracy, and establish an M&E system. However,
larger policy issues affecting Project implementation took precedence and these
agreements were not fulfilled. During the first 12 months of the Project, PIU-collected
data was adequate on all key indicators except fuelwood affordability. After that,
reporting deteriorated along with overall Project implementation; by early 2007, all
reporting had ceased.

M&E Utilization

During the first year of the Project, when political commitment to the Project and its
Development Objective was strong, FD utilized the indicators to evaluate implementation
progress, but as the FD's institutional capacity deteriorated and Project ownership waned
due to political changes, so did evaluation activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

The Project triggered three Bank safeguards policies--OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, OP 4.04, Natural Habitats, and OP 4.36, Forestry; the Project was rated
Category A. A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA), including an environmental
management plan (EMP), was developed during Project preparation. The SEA concluded
that overall Project impact on environmental management in forestry would be positive;
it identified minor potential impacts that might occur if equipment was misused during
harvesting and transportation demonstrations or forestation activities, but the EMP
included risk screening and mitigation, including site-specific environmental impact
assessments (EIAs), required by Georgian law.

During implementation, overall safeguards compliance, and compliance with OP 4.1
were rated "Satisfactory" until the 2006 Mid-term Review (MTR), when the rating was
downgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory".         This was due in part to the fact that
Government relaxed regulations and forest management planning, and forest use no
longer required EIAs and environmental permitting, an action the Bank considered to
conflict with environmental due diligence principles. Despite this, no potentially risky
Project activities took place, so actual compliance was unchanged. In hindsight, Aide
Memoires should have specified that early-phase Project afforestation / reforestation
activities had no adverse environmental impact, hence justifying the earlier "Satisfactory"
rating.



                                           10

Compliance with OP 4.04 was generally rated "Satisfactory;" although there was an
interval of, "Highly Satisfactory," perhaps due to satisfactory implementation of
landscape-based forest inventory. Compliance with OP 4.36 was rated, "Satisfactory,"
and "Highly Satisfactory" until MTR, when the rating was "Moderately Satisfactory."
This rating might have been appropriate earlier, in mid-2006, when implementation of
sector-wide forest policies had fallen behind significantly. Aide Memoires offer no
explanation of rating changes.

Procurement

After two initial years of Project implementation, Procurement capacity was downgraded
from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory due to PIU reorganization and increased
turnover among procurement staff. In 2006-2007, the Project Procurement Specialist was
replaced twice. This was aggravated by lack of consistent authorizing environment in the
MEPNR to allow timely procurement decisions. The January 2008 Post Review pointed
out that all Project procurement was being carried out by the Project legal counsel, who
lacked procurement experience.

On April 2, 2007, the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) initiated an investigation in
several contracts implemented under the Project. In summary, OPG alleged that: (i)
inventory contract values were exaggerated; and (ii) forestation contracts were awarded
to companies affiliated to local forestry department staff members. The Bank
acknowledged OPG's prerogative to investigate, while maintaining that all Project
procurement procedures were in compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines, and that
implementation of afforestation / reforestation contracts met all technical specifications.

The heads of three regional forestry offices where afforestation activities were
undertaken were charged with "Misuse of state resources", their cases heard in court and
a fine assessed for each. A consultant to the PIU on afforestation was also fined for the
same reasons.     Two others, both PIU staff, were "persons of interest" and were
questioned by prosecutors several times but they have never been charged. As of May
2009 when the ICR was in draft, the investigation was still ongoing, but there was an
understanding that the intention was to close the case without any further charges being
made.

The Bank brought the OPG investigation to the attention of the Bank Institutional
Integrity Department (INT).

Financial Management

The PIU's financial management (FM) arrangements, including internal controls, were
technically adequate at the beginning but deteriorated during Project implementation. In
particular, the following deficiencies were noted during supervision: (i) none of the
various accounting software packages consequently used by the PIU fully met Project
accounting and reporting requirements; (ii) segregation of duties among staff and
expenditure authorization controls were deficient; (iii) the Project's budgeting and
planning capacity significantly weakened due to major SDPIA staff turnover in 2007-
2008 (four Financial Managers were replaced during that period); and (iv) inadequate
SDPIA reporting arrangements failed to ensure punctual or adequate financial reporting;
FM reports submitted to the Bank in 2007-2008 were late and of poor quality.



                                          11

Towards the end of the Project, while the auditor's opinion on the financial statements for
the final period of Project implementation (2007 and the first seven months of 2008) was
unqualified (clean), the auditor's Management Letter emphasized several weaknesses
demonstrated by the SDPIA during that period, including the fact that payments were
made using the Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure, even when the SOE threshold
was exceeded (i.e., in contradiction with the Credit's legal covenants).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project was cancelled primarily due to disagreements between Government and the
Bank on key forest sector policy issues, and Government decision to stop implementation
of several Project components.

However, since that time signs of reversal have appeared in Government forest policy. In
late 2008, logging licenses awarded through auctions were cancelled; in April 2009,
MEPNR requested renewed Bank support for forest management in Georgia, similar to
that of the cancelled Project. That said, under existing forest legislation, forest inventories
are still to be carried out by lease-holders rather than Government--a fundamental
disagreement with the Bank on the role of Government in safeguarding sustainability of
private forest operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Georgia's current development priorities expressed through Government policies and
evidenced by existing legal frameworks for forest management, render the Project
Development Objective and Project design irrelevant. Recent Government actions
demonstrate an interest in maximizing the economic contribution from the forest, but
with little regard for environmental sustainability. Specifically, forest legislation allows
forest lease holders to prepare forest inventories--a clear conflict of interest. If forests are
auctioned to private operators without inventories, or legal and institutional frameworks,
sustainable forest management is not possible.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Most outputs envisaged under Project components were not achieved, as outlined below
and detailed in Annex 2. Consequently, the PDO was not achieved.

Component 1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory,
Financial and Institutional Reforms. More than US$3.32 million was disbursed of an
estimated US$3.70 million; and the following outputs were achieved, albeit not as
originally conceived due to changes in Government priorities:

 Auctioning was initiated as a market mechanism for timber pricing. However, leases
    have been awarded without a legal framework, institutional capacity, or forest
    inventory to ensure that private lease-holders practice sustainable forest management.




                                           12

 29 regulations were developed and approved to implement the 1999 Forest Code;
   however, the further developments in the forest sector necessitated further revision of
   the Forest Code.
 Regulations and guidelines were developed for forest inventory and auctions;
   however, these are ineffective without sufficient FD implementation capacity.
 Regulations on transfers from State Forest Fund to Local Forest Funds were drafted;
   however, these were never adopted by Government.
 Methodologies for total economic valuation and resource pricing were developed;
   however, these were not adopted by Government.
 Rehabilitation of the Forestry Department's central office and its 10 district branches
   (out of 14 existing across the country), as well as of the FD Training Center in Tbilisi,
   was completed; however, three of the rehabilitated district offices were subsequently
   excluded from the FD list of reorganized districts.

Some planned outputs could not be achieved because of multiple changes in Government
sectoral policy directions:
 Development of a new improved National Forest Policy and Strategy;
 FD staff training on improved forest management and participatory techniques; and
 Mechanisms to ensure sustainable/ adequate financing of public forest management.

As a result, the Component outcome--improved sector governance--was not achieved.

Component 2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot
Area (CCPA). Some outputs were achieved from disbursement of more than US$3.28
million of the US$5.20 million allocated Project funds.

 Completed first-ever landscape-based forest inventory methodology and field manual
   in Georgia;
 Prepared landscape-ecological composition (LEC) zoning maps, completed
   inventories on 550,000 ha (22 percent of Georgia's forests): Level 1 & 2 inventories
   in Oni, Ambrolauri, Borjomi-Bakuriani, Tsageri, Lentekhi and Mestia Districts; Level
   1 inventory in Ajara. (Note: Borjomi-Bakuriani and Ajara were added during Project
   implementation).
 Completed aerial photographs of additional 1,300,000 ha (54 percent of Georgia's
   forest area). Physical inventory activities remained incomplete after the MEPNR
   terminated inventory contracts with the beginning of OPG investigation.
 Prepared forest management plans (FMPs) for Oni and Ambroulari. FMP work
   initiated for Borjomi-Bakuriani, Tsageri, Lentekhi, Mestia and Ajara was left
   incomplete once the OPG investigation began.

While inventories are important outputs, their contribution to the anticipated Project
outcome of sustainable forest management can only be realized when they are translated
into forest management plans, which happened in only two of seven regions. Successful
management plans can only be implemented under adequate legal and institutional
frameworks, which do not yet exist in Georgia.

Anticipated Project Outputs that were not achieved under this Component include:




                                         13

 A forest management information system (FMIS). However, the Project did provide
    MEPNR Spatial Information Center with hardware and software, important building
    blocks for FMIS development;
 Road rehabilitation (100 km) and construction (75 km) consistent with new standards
    and FMPs. Draft guidelines for good management practices for forest road
    construction and maintenance were produced, but never adopted;
 Certification of forest and road workers in environmental techniques and standards of
    forest utilization; and
 Pilot programs in community fuelwood / community forestry.

The Component 2 outcome, improved forest planning and management in CCPA, was
achieved to a limited degree; failure to pilot a community fuelwood/ forestry sub-
component prevented Project contribution to rural poverty reduction since secure access
to affordable fuelwood is a significant determinant of rural community welfare.

Component 3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas. More
than US$2.66 million of the allocated US$7.22 million was disbursed. Outputs achieved
include the following:
 Established a State Environmental Inspectorate (GDI) within the MEPNR;
 Procured equipment, including 1,000 uniforms, 36 four-wheel drive vehicles, 60
    global positioning systems (GPS), and office equipment for the Forest Department
    and 24 four-wheel drive vehicles for GDI;
 Constructed new facilities for seed processing, nursery, warehouses, laboratory and
    administrative buildings at Sartichala Nursery, with staff trained in its operation.
    Facilities are essentially completed, but remain non-operational due to an unresolved
    land titling conflict and a related legal investigation that prevents power grid
    connection; as a result of the 2007 change of Government policy that discontinued
    public funding for reforestation / afforestation activities, the MEPNR was considering
    divesting this facility to the Tbilisi Municipality or privatizing it.

Planned Project outputs that were not achieved include the following:

 Support to integrated forest hazard management, including grants for applied research
    in forest protection, forest protection laboratory refurbishment, pest and fire
    monitoring, and providing forest hazard protection equipment. That said, two field
    surveys of the 2002-03 pest outbreaks in Borjomi and Imereti were conducted;
 Afforestation was completed on only 113 ha of a planned 3,100 ha; reforestation was
    completed on only 195 ha of a planned 5,700; both areas are maintained poorly.

Component 3 outcomes were partially achieved on the account of the protection of
forests and not achieved on the account of reforestation in priority areas. Inspectorate and
forest ranger capacity development will have limited contribution to improved forest
protection because of overall reduction in the number of field forest staff. Detailed
afforestation/reforestation site plans were prepared for a reduced number of highest
priority areas, but implementation of these plans did not materialize.




                                            14

3.3 Efficiency

The economic analysis reviewed during Project appraisal estimated Project benefits
linked to increased timber extraction, soil protection, tourism and recreation, carbon
sequestration, non-timber forest products, decreased infrastructure damage, landscape
and biodiversity conservation. Compared with shadow-valued Project costs, the
quantified benefits yielded an overall Project IRR of 18.71 percent; IRRs for Component
2 were 17.07 percent, and forestation in priority areas, 12.24 percent.

Attaining these benefits depended on implementing a comprehensive set of Project
activities, only a few of which were accomplished. Consequently, benefits to Georgian
society are limited to somewhat increased timber benefits due to forest inventories and
two forest management plans, which could improve harvesting plans, reduce waste, and
increase the per unit value of area harvested. Similarly, vehicles and equipment acquired
for forest guards and environmental inspectors can help prevent illegal harvesting.

Unfortunately, anticipated timber benefits from demonstrations of improved roads and
harvesting methods, and improved pest management were not realized as Project
activities did not take place. Anticipated benefits from the Project sub-component on
afforestation/reforestation,  including  soil    protection   for  increased    agricultural
productivity, non-timber forest products, landscape / aesthetic benefits, recreation and
tourism, carbon sequestration, and decreased infrastructure damage are unlikely to
materialize since few afforestation/reforestation component activities were completed;
and afforested areas are poorly maintained. Anticipated benefits from biodiversity
conservation are unlikely to be realized due to lack of approved guidelines and low
capacity among MEPNR staff to review or enforce forest management plans.
Consequently, economic returns on these expenditures are assumed to be low, although
they cannot be quantified due to lack of data.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

While some envisaged Project outputs were delivered, as detailed in Annex 2, they are
incomplete or other key outputs are missing so outcomes anticipated under the PDO
could not be achieved.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Project pilot fuelwood and community forest management programs aimed to contribute
directly to poverty alleviation. The afforestation sub-component aimed to provide
temporary employment for local people, increase agricultural yields, and raise incomes
by reducing soil erosion. Overall, the Project aimed increase the contribution of forests to
the economy of Georgia, to help raise overall income levels. However, activities related
to these components were least implemented and yielded none of the expected outcomes.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project succeeded in contributing to increased institutional capacity. This includes:
 Private companies emerged to provide highly technical services in state-of-the-art
    forest mapping and inventory;


                                          15

 Produced state-of-the-art inventories for 40 percent of Georgia forests, which can be
    used to develop management plans;
 Provided equipment to the new State Environmental Inspectorate;
 Provided hardware and software to MEPNR Spatial Information Center; now it can
    generate and share maps and other spatial information on forest resources;
 Provided equipment and vehicles to the forest inspectorate as well as rehabilitated
    district and central forest offices to create efficient work environment.

As of this ICR draft, most professional forestry staff trained under the Project in forest
management planning issues had left government service, which severely depleted
MEPNR FD capacity to review, approve, and enforce forest inventories and management
plans submitted by private operators.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

No other unintended outcomes or impacts came about during the Project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A beneficiary survey was not carried out; a stakeholder workshop was not held.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

Government is not pursuing activities necessary to attain the PDO.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The Bank saw a unique opportunity to initiate dialogue with the influential SFD and
Government and support their ownership and reform of the forest sector in Georgia;
Project design served this vision. However, some Project elements were under-prepared,
such as the community forestry sub-component, or overly ambitious, such as the Forestry
Management and Information System sub-component. The Bank failed to take sufficient
account of lack of policy consensus and uncertainty among the reorganized MEPNR
establishment about their respective roles in forest governance; these two issues were
significant in derailing Project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Unatisfactory

The Bank performance included: (i) maintaining intensive professional dialogue with
new Government; (ii) seeking common ground for new Government priorities and the
PDO; and (iii) mobilizing high-level international expertise. However, these efforts could
not overcome the counterweight of six changes of Forest Director and seven changes in
Minister of Environment, and breakdowns in Government decision making.


                                              16

The Bank proposed restructuring the Project substantially at the time of the Mid-term
Review in 2006 to better reflect new Government vision of the forest sector while
adhering to the PDO of environmental sustainability. Project revisions failed to
materialize because shortly after the MTR agreement, the FD Director changed and a new
Government policy was instituted. (See Section 2.2). In retrospect, an earlier attempt to
restructure the Project, especially the community forestry sub-component, might have
been appropriate because, after the departure in 2004 of the FD Chairman, the FD's
ability to effectively implement necessary policies on the ground deteriorated. An initial
discussion of a possible Project restructuring (initiated in late 2004) was interrupted in
early 2005 with the untimely death of the Prime Minister and subsequent departure of
the-then FD Chairman. Further discussions of Project restructuring with new MEPNR
officials were slowed down in 2005-2006 because of a lack of clear ownership of Project
objectives by the Government, followed by a dramatic deterioration of Project
relationships in early 2007.

In 2007, the Bank, the Prime Minister's Office, and the Ministry of Finance held
extensive discussions during the period leading up to Project cancellation. Prior to
cancellation in 2008, the Project was suspended and the Bank established conditions for
reinstatement; however, these conditions were not met.

The Bank could have performed better in using the Aide Memoires and Implementation
Status Reports (ISRs) to document safeguards compliance and justify ratings.

Bank Procurement and Financial Management specialists were based in Tbilisi, which
facilitated cooperation with counterparts and enabled close supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Both lending and supervision performances are rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, hence
so is the overall performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Policy priorities of the new Government conflicted with the PDO; Government chose not
to implement key Project elements; the Project was suspended, pending conditions which
were not met; eventually, the Project was cancelled.

Frequent turnover among high-level Government counterparts and sector policy makers
effectively nullified hard-won agreements on Project revisions that attempted to bridge
Bank and Government objectives.

The Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) investigation into Project contracts was in
line with the OPG mandate but prevented the completion of several key Project activities,
notably forest inventories and forestation.

The investigation was launched in April 2007. The heads of three regional forestry
offices where afforestation activities were undertaken were charged with "Misuse of state
resources", their cases heard in court and a fine assessed for each. A consultant to the


                                           17

PIU on afforestation was also fined for the same reasons. Two others, both PIU staff,
were "persons of interest" and were questioned by prosecutors several times but they
have never been charged. As of May 2009, the investigation remained ongoing, but there
was an understanding that the intention was to close the case without any further charges
being made.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The implementing agency repeatedly failed to carry through agreements negotiated
during missions, primarily due to several institutional disruptions that resulted in the
departure of the most experienced professional FD and MEPNR staff who worked on the
Project. In addition, consolidating Project implementation units into one large unit aimed
to increase efficiency but instead created paralysis.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

Project preparation was characterized by full Government engagement and full
implementing agency involvement; however, Project performance deteriorated at both
levels during Project implementation. Key policy makers changed several times, the well-
functioning PIU was abolished, which all contributed to the erosion of Borrower
performance, while the prolonged Prosecutor General investigation further constrained
the Borrower's ability to undertake corrective actions, resulting in the unsatisfactory
Project outcome.

6. Lessons Learned
 Community involvement in forestry management involves complex social,
    institutional, and regulatory issues, which must be identified and incorporated in
    Project design during preparation.
 Sustainable forest sector reforms require bottom-up support, which must be fostered
    at the initial stages. Strong central leadership offers great opportunities for reform, but
    these can only be sustained in the longer term with strong local buy-in.
 Projects spanning a period of significant change in policy direction, as well as
    political volatility, require enhanced engagement/supervision. This should include
    bringing in outside experts, mobilizing senior Bank management, and flexibly
    shifting the focus of the Project while retaining overall goals (which indeed the Bank
    did). Unfortunately even when this is done, the gap between the Borrower and the
    Bank may simply be too big and the best approach is to recognize this as quickly as
    possible and close the Project. Yet even in such disengagement situations, the Bank
    has a responsibility to continue to provide its professional views.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's Completion Report (attached in Annex 7B) offers a chronology of events
without raising any major issues; MEPNR, the implementing agency, reviewed an




                                             18

advance ICR draft and stated in its official communication to the Bank (Annex 7A) that it
has no comments to the points made in the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) was a significant partner in Project design and early
phases of implementation, as well as in technical assistance activities complementary to
the Project, such as on developing national forest policy and voluntary forest certification
tools. In their written comments, WWF underlined the importance and continued
relevance of the core activities supported by the Project in the area of "forest inventory,
elaboration and adoption of the new forestry policy, forest code (reflecting present
situation) and revitalizing nurseries to support forest restoration projects".




                                           19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Components                           Appraisal EstimateActual                         Percentage of
                                     (US$ millions)          (US$ millions)           Appraisal
Improve forest sector governance
through national regulatory,                       3.70                  3.32                 89.7
financial and institutional reforms
Improve forest planning and
management in central Caucasus                     5.20                  3.28                 63.1
pilot area
Establish forest protection and
reforestation in selected priority                 7.22                  2.66                 36.8
areas
Establish project management and
monitoring                                         2.20                  1.06                 48.2

Project preparation facility (PPF)                 0.00                  1.03


Total Baseline Cost                              18.32                  11.35                 62.0
Physical Contingencies                             1.09
Price Contingencies                                1.93
Total Project Costs                                0.00                 11.35
Front-end fee PPF                                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.00
Total Financing Required                         21.34                  11.35                 53.2

* First column cost estimates for the first four items include the cost of activities funded under the USD
0.99 million PPF. However, in the second column, the actual costs do not include the PPF-funded activities.
Consequently, the percentages calculated in the third column are lower than they should be.



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal       Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                            Type of         Estimate        Estimate         Percentage of
                                           Cofinancing (USD                (USD             Appraisal
                                                           millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                        5.67              2.72           40.0
International Development
Association (IDA)                                               15.70             8.63           55.0

Total                                                           21.37            11.35           53.1




                                                   20

Annex 2A. Chronology of Implementation Events


The Project became effective in April 2003, and for about one year, implementation was
satisfactory, particularly in the context of the overall Bank portfolio in Georgia. After that,
implementation performance slowed and was downgraded in June 2005 to Moderately
Satisfactory and in June 2006 to Moderately Unsatisfactory. During the Mid-term Review
(MTR) mission (November-December 2006), Project restructuring was agreed upon
between the Bank and Government, in part, to expand a National Forest Inventory as a
tool to ensure sustainability and transparency in the forest sector. However, in April 2007,
MEPNR announced a major change of policy in the forest sector--a fast-track divestiture
of most forest management responsibilities from Government to the private sector and
municipalities; simultaneously, without consultation with the Bank, MEPNR terminated
all key ongoing Bank-financed contracts for forest inventory and afforestation (the two
main Project components), stating that under the new policy, the private sector would
become responsible for these activities. Moreover, in contravention of contract provision,
the MEPNR unilaterally suspended the eight forestry inventory contracts under the Credit,
and referred them to the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) for investigation. In
May 2007, four forest leases on 80,000 ha were auctioned to the private sector.

Since Georgia lacked a proper legal framework, institutional capacity, and forest
inventory information, these new policies violated internationally recognized principles
of Sustainable Forest Management (SFM), and therefore, were unacceptable to the Bank.
Intensive high-level consultations during April-July 2007 included the Prime Minister,
Bank management, key development partners, and national stakeholders; at the
conclusion, Government confirmed that: (i) it wanted continued Bank engagement in the
sector; (ii) it would not proceed with forest auctions until forest lease regulations were
revised in line with international SFM principles; and (iii) it would complete the national
forest inventory in parallel with new forest auctions.

During July-August 2007, a Bank mission, with inputs from the UN FAO, GTZ, Forest
Stewardship Council, WWF and other partners, developed and presented a note to
Government on essential elements of forest lease and other regulations that would
comprise minimal acceptable conditions for continued Bank engagement. These included
Government responsibility for national forest inventory, limitations on leaseholder
activities before Forest Management Plan (FMP) approval, public consultation, and
public participation in forest management planning. These elements were presented to the
Government in a letter dated August 16, 2007.

Government responded on September 19, 2007, summarizing points of agreement and
disagreement with the Bank position. Bank analysis of Government documentation
associated with these decisions, complemented by opinions of independent reviewers
from FAO and the Forest Stewardship Council, concluded that these Government
decisions improved on past practices but failed to incorporate essential elements specified
by the Bank in the August 16, 2007 letter. Taken together, this represented an
unacceptable risk of failure to meet the agreed Project objectives and a serious
reputational risk for the Bank.



                                            21

In late-October 2007, on the basis of the above, the World Bank was prepared to proceed
immediately with credit suspension. However, in November 2007, Georgia experienced
political unrest; in January 2008, elections were held and a new Government, including
Prime Minister and Minister of Environment entered office. During this time, the Bank
postponed credit suspension and then carried out constructive discussions with the new
Government regarding the Project. The MEPNR expressed a desire to continue with the
Project, including financing revived inventory work, but a common way forward could
not be found. A major block to progress was the ongoing investigation of the inventory
contracts, which prevented existing contracts from being reinstated and new contracts
from being awarded. At the same time, the Cabinet shifted responsibility for issuing
forestry licenses to the Ministry of Economy, which signaled an intent to resume forestry
leasing activity without completing forest inventories or establishing legal or regulatory
frameworks.

Consequently, on April 11, 2008, the Bank suspended the Credit based on Borrower
failure to carry out Project objectives and activities, as required under Section 3.01 (a) of
the Development Credit Agreement. A suspension letter specified four corrective actions
to be taken by Government by June 12, 2008, for the Bank to lift suspension.

a. Approval of an acceptable time-bound plan for completion of the national forest
     inventory in 2008-2009, including agreement on the methodology and scope of the
     said inventory;

b. Resolution of the investigation of the suspended inventory contracts, such that they
     are either reinstated or terminated in accordance with contract provisions, so that
    work may proceed on developing forest inventory;

c. Approval of an acceptable standard form of forest lease contract including
    requirements for FMPs, and enforceable limitations on logging until inventories are
    completed and FMPs approved; and

d. Completion of an acceptable draft revised forestry code and its publishing for a
    suitable period of public comment.

These conditions were not fulfilled and the Bank cancelled the Credit on June 12, 2008.
Of the total IDA credit of SDR 12.6 million, SDR 5.9 million had been disbursed and
SDR 6.7 m (approximately US$10.97 million) was cancelled.

Prosecutor General's Investigation

On April 2, 2007, the Office of the Prosecutor General (OPG) initiated an investigation of
several contracts implemented under the Project. Key allegations of the OPG were:

(i) The values of most inventory contracts were exaggerated, the amount of work in
     geographically similar areas involving similar work were valued differently, and the
     evaluation of services in lots, rather than individually lead to unfair results. OPG
     further accused the Project Implementation Unit of unrealistic cost estimation,
     inadequate supervision of consultants, and remuneration without ascertaining the
     adequacy of outputs.

(ii) OPG claimed that reforestation and afforestation contracts were awarded to
     companies actually owned and operated by administrators of local units of the


                                           22

     Forestry Department though registered under the names of their relatives. OPG
     further claimed that being also members of the bid evaluation committees, these
     administrators opened other submitted bids before the formal evaluation and led their
     affiliated companies to submit lower bids to allow them to win the contracts.

In response to the above, the Bank offered the authorities the following clarifications
based on World Bank Procurement Guidelines ("the Guidelines"):

(i) For a Project requiring similar but separate items of equipment or works, to achieve
     economy and efficiency, the Guidelines allow grouping of individual items as lots. In
     such cases, bids are evaluated on a lot-by-lot basis and evaluators are not required to
     examine or compare the price offers for individual bid items. The implementing
     agency is, however, required to ensure that the contract under consideration is in
     agreement with the estimated budget for it in the Project procurement plan. Bid
     evaluation must be based on factors, methodologies and criteria defined in Clause 36
     of the Bank's standard Invitation-to-Bid document. No other criteria or
     methodologies are allowed. Specifically, arbitrary "verification" or comparison of bid
     prices with market prices is not admissible.

(ii) The Bank issues "no objections" on the basis of information provided by the
     implementation agency. In case of the reforestation contracts, the Bank was informed
     that four Georgian companies submitted responsive bids that were opened publicly
     and evaluated in accordance with the Guidelines. The contract was awarded to the
     lowest bidder. The Bank did not receive or request information about the specific
     individuals involved in the bidding companies as this is not required under the
     Guidelines. Bank supervision missions visiting several of the afforestation /
     reforestation sites found that the works performed by the contractors were in
     compliance with the required technical specifications.




                                           23

Annex 2B. Outputs by Component

This annex reviews the actual outputs under each Project component in comparison with outputs envisaged at Appraisal.

Component 1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional Reforms.

Envisaged at Appraisal                                             Actually achieved

(i) Improve legal, regulatory and policy framework. Legal, institutional and regulatory mechanisms strengthened to permit implementation of the Forest Code and
support sustainable forest management
Finalizing subsidiary laws and implementing regulations under       The implementation of this activity may be considered satisfactory in terms of outputs that were
the 1999 Forest Code, including a draft law on privatization of     envisaged at appraisal. Twenty-nine regulations required for implementation of the 1999 Forest Code
state forests and regulations on local (community) forests,         were prepared and approved in 2000-2003. Significant additional regulations and guidelines had been
independently verifiable forest sector monitoring (incl. wood       prepared prior to Mid-term, including for forest inventory; forest auctions, including for long-term
flow control and forest audits), and harmonizing forest legal       leasing; and a draft regulation for the transfer of State Forest Fund to Local Forest Fund.
acts with other branches of law, such as environmental, land,       However, guidelines and regulations developed under the Project became irrelevant with the legislative
tax, budget laws and regulations.                                   changes after the Rose Revolution, including a draft new Forest Code. The Bank commented on the
                                                                    new Code and offered to allocate Project resources to provide a professional review, but Government
                                                                    exhibited little interest. At Project cancellation, a new Forest Code was not in place and the 1999 Code
                                                                    was not being implemented either.
Developing a methodology for total economic valuation (TEV)         A methodology for TEV and resource pricing was prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Economy
of forest resources.                                                department that issues natural resources extraction licenses, but it has not been implemented.

Implementing changes in the financial and economic                  Auctioning was initiated as a mechanism for market-based valuation of forest resources (with the
regulations related to the forest sector, especially with regard to caveats mentioned below.)
market-based mechanisms for proper valuation, pricing and
sales of forest resources and guaranteed refinancing of public      Mechanisms to guarantee financing of public forest management functions were not put in place, but
forest management costs. (Indicator: Recommendations for            actual amount of public funding for forest management has substantially increased.
financing mechanisms for sustainable support to SFD and other
institutions passed in Parliament.)

Developing a new system of forest auctions, featuring market-       By Project cancellation, four auctions for 20-year leases ("licenses for the long-term rights of use of
based pricing above the minimum cost of forest resource             forest resources") had been carried out in different parts of the country. However, these auctions were
management ("floor price") and separation of timber sales           not in line with the Project Development Objective since they were carried out without first putting in
requirements from those for forest harvesting by duly certified     place all necessary regulations concerning including description of financial flows, provisions for
operators. (Indicator: Increase in percentage of forest resources   market pricing, forest management obligations, and environmental safeguards.
allocated for use through auctions and competitive sales)
(ii) Develop national forest program, standards and certification. A National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS), a high-level political document setting the country's
medium and long-term goals regarding its forests, developed in conformity with UN Forum on Forest recommendations and in a broad participatory process and national
standards in sustainable forest management established.


                                                                               24

Component 1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional Reforms.

Envisaged at Appraisal                                          Actually achieved

Indicator: New/improved National Forestry Policy and Strategy   At Project cancellation, a NFPS document meeting the above characteristics had not been approved. In

officially approved.                                            2006, a multi-stakeholder preparation and public discussion of the draft NFPS concept took place,
                                                                which at MTR the MEPNR planned to use in developing a full policy document, to be submitted to the
                                                                Government in early 2007. Instead, Government developed a new vision for forest sector reform,
                                                                including a fast-track implementation of long-term forest leases to private sector and rapid transfer of
                                                                full forest management responsibilities for "forests of local significance" to local self-government.

Indicators:                                                     The Project financed development and update of two forestry standards, which were not approved.
Common measuring system for timber export used by customs
and foresters.
National forest standards and monitoring / certification
procedures established
(iii) Strengthen institutions and human resources for improved forest management and monitoring.

Development of a forest sector rationalization / institutional  The plan was completed in 2003, which may mean this activity should be considered satisfactory.
development plan. (Indicator: FD has clear mandates of its      However, the new Government made little use of it.
normative, regulatory and forest management responsibilities )

Implementation of a human resources development and             Training program did not occur; Government stopped the tender for technical assistance on training.
training program. (Indicator: FD staff training in improved
forest management and participatory techniques )

Upgrading     of  university    training facilities (Indicator: This activity was carried out partially. The Project funded construction of a training facility on MEPNR
University forestry students trained in improved forest         premises. (In October 2005, MEPNR proposed and the Bank agreed that a "training center" be
management)                                                     established in lieu of originally planned support to upgrade university facilities. Rationale for this
                                                                change related to recent major reforms of higher education in Georgia, which made universities fully
                                                                autonomous and more dependent on tuition fees.) However, MEPNR rejected Project support for
                                                                further development of the Center and refused to provide to the Bank any description of the proposed
                                                                Training Center objectives, target audience, staffing, and operating costs, requirements for procurement
                                                                of training and IT/office equipment with a detailed cost breakdown.

Rehabilitation of Forestry Department central and district      FD Central facilities. An annex to the MEPNR main building was constructed for the Forestry

offices                                                         Department, which was relocated from its former offices in Tbilisi. This construction had not been
                                                                foreseen at appraisal. However the Bank agreed to it, given its utility to the FD.

                                                                FD District facilities. Of the originally planned 14 district offices, seven were completed.
                                                                Furthermore, three regional offices (as opposed to district offices due to nationwide reorganization of
                                                                forest districts, which led to the establishment of regional offices with greater responsibilities) were

                                                                            25

Component 1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional Reforms.

Envisaged at Appraisal                                            Actually achieved

                                                                  rehabilitated. Discussions on the selection of additional regional or field offices were fruitless since
                                                                  the choice of offices changed with each new FD leadership.

 (iv) Build public support for sustainable forest management

Indicators:                                                       A strategic action plan to increase public awareness was not developed: First, a local consultant

Strategic action plan implemented to increase public support      recruited for this task failed to meet TOR requirements; second, MEPNR failed to finalize it using

for sustainable forest management, including school programs      internal resources.

and activities with community "friends of forest" associations,   Several PA activities were carried out to promote sustainable forest management practices, including.
establishment of public information rooms in the districts and    production and broadcasting of two video clips about the Project and a documentary about key forest
`hotlines' for facilitating feedback from rural areas.            sector issues in Georgia, ongoing government actions and proposed solutions, and several publications

Public awareness (PA) (particularly of decision makers) about     in the national daily paper "24 Hours". A "hotline" was put in place in early Project implementation but

the economic and environmental importance of the forests has      was no longer maintained when FD Management was changed.

increased                                                         The Project supported a public opinion poll on environment issues that involved 4,000 respondents in
                                                                  statistically selected 419 sampling points across Georgia. The poll produced an important baseline on
                                                                  the general population's environmental awareness. Respondents in almost all settlements assigned 5
                                                                  (out of 11) points to the overall ecological problems and 6 points to illegal logging issues; 53.4 percent
                                                                  did not know about the performance of the State Environmental Inspectorate. However, the MEPNR
                                                                  did not develop any PA actions that would specifically address these or other identified gaps in public
                                                                  awareness on forest management. No follow-up survey was conducted to gauge changes in public
                                                                  awareness about the economic and environmental importance of forests.




Component 2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot Area (CCPA)

Envisaged at Appraisal                                     Actually achieved

(i) Develop ecosystems-based landscape planning and forest inventory using sustainable forest management principles.

Landscape-ecological composition (LEC) plans               In the first year of the Project, the Borjomi-Bakuriani District (54,000 ha) was added given the significant
developed; and                                             threats to this environmentally critical areas of national importance. In 2005, this work ­ for Level 1 only ­
                                                           was further expanded to include Ajara Region (5 districts with total area of 196,000 ha).
Ecosystem-based inventory involving multiple
stakeholders.                                              LEC zoning maps were prepared and Level 1&2 inventories completed in Oni, Ambrolauri, Borjomi-
                                                           Bakuriani, Tsageri, Lentekhi and Mestia Districts and Ajara Region (Level 1 inventory only), corresponding
The Project was to have completed strategic (i.e. Level    to 550,000 ha (or 22 percent of the country's forests).


                                                                              26

Component 2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot Area (CCPA)

Envisaged at Appraisal                                      Actually achieved

1) and tactical (Level 2) forest inventories in 5 districts The Project also financed the preparation of the inventory methodology (the first ever to be written in
of the Central Caucasus Pilot Area (Oni, Ambrolauri,        Georgian for Georgia) and field manual.
Tsageri, Lentekhi and Mestia), for a total coverage of      Forest management plans (FMPs) were developed and approved for the Oni and Ambroulari Districts. Work
300,000 ha, or 12 percent of all state forest lands in      on FMPs for Borjomi-Bakuriani, Tsageri, Lentekhi, Mestia and Ajara was initiated but never completed.
Georgia. 1                                                  In line with the Government interest to begin the introduction of long-term leases, in October 2005 it was
                                                            agreed to significantly scale up Level 1 inventory activities to cover the rest of the key forest areas of the
(Indicator:   Implementation      of  improved      forest  country (i.e. an additional 1,300,000 ha, leading to a total coverage of 1,806,000 ha, or 75 percent of all
management plans using landscape planning on 250,000        Georgia's forests), as a tool needed to plan the long-term leasing program and delineation of Local Forest
ha (9 percent of Georgia's forested area )                  Fund, as well as the forest protection activities. This extension in area to be covered by Level 1 inventory
                                                            was considered to be the foundation of a National Forest Inventory that was to be completed by the end of
                                                            the Project in June 2009. Level 2 inventory were envisaged as the responsibility of leaseholders. Aerial
                                                            photographs of the additional areas were taken. However, physical inventory activities could not be
                                                            completed since all inventory contracts were terminated by MEPNR when the Office of the Prosecutor
                                                            General started its investigation.

(ii) Develop a forest management information system (FMIS). Development and installation of a nation-wide FMIS and training of system operators.

Indicator: FMIS established and used to develop new         The Project supported the MEPNR's new Spatial Information Center with hardware and software which
forest management plans.                                    provided an important input into development of FMIS. However FMIS itself was not developed.

                                                            FMIS development was initially hampered by the ambitiousness of the original plan for Georgian conditions.
                                                            The October 2005 supervision mission agreed with the MEPNR to scale it back to the development of a user-
                                                            friendly interface for the GIS mapping and analysis capability that has already been designed under the
                                                            previous subcomponent. The MEPNR's Spatial Information Center (SIC) would be charged with the task of
                                                            hosting and maintenance of GIS data collected under Level 1 inventory. The MTR mission also
                                                            recommended staff training on the interface; provision, customization and localization of an industry-
                                                            standard GIS software package (such as ArcView); and procurement of server and scanner equipment,
                                                            software and training necessary for the SIC for hosting the Level 1 database. The equipment and software



1 As designed, Level 1 inventory is for strategic planning purposes and is based on sampling of permanent plots for comprehensive forest values, including
environmental & social to allow for long term monitoring of forest resources and health. The Level 2 inventory is a more intensive, operational level inventory of
timber and non-timber forest resources and includes the development of forest management plans (FMPs). In preparation for these inventories, and to allow for
ecological zoning (also called Landscape-Ecological Composition--LEC) and mapping, aerial photography was also funded by the Project for the areas to be
inventoried. Those aerial photographs were orthorectified and a data processing software (add-on to ArcView) was developed, so that the forest inventory and
zoning maps could be automatically prepared (the first such automated ecological zoning in Georgia) based on the forest data collected by the inventories.



                                                                              27

Component 2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot Area (CCPA)

Envisaged at Appraisal                                   Actually achieved

                                                         were procured; however, training was not carried out.

Demonstrate environmental forest harvesting and road
operations.
(Indicators:                                             This activity was not carried out.
100km of forest road rehabilitated and 75km of road      Draft guidelines for good management practices for forest road construction and maintenance were produced
constructed in accordance with new standards and forest  in the second year of the Project. However, the Government decided that these operations would in future be
management plans; and                                    the responsibility of long-term lease holders of forest areas.
Increase in number of forest and road workers certified
in environmental techniques and standards of forest
utilization.)

(iii) Develop and Implement Pilot community Forest Programs.

Pilot programs in fuelwood supply and community          A household survey of fuelwood needs was carried out, as envisaged in the PAD.
forest management established and carried out in Project Furthermore, under Component 1, the Project supported the development of (i) a draft decree authorizing
area.                                                    local governing bodies to manage the Local Forest Fund (LFF); and (ii) proposed procedures for separating
                                                         the LFF from the State Forest Fund (SFF), based on sustainable forestry principles and overall state policy in
                                                         the forestry sector. However, neither the pilot community fuelwood program nor the pilot community
                                                         forestry program was carried out. TOR development of the former was subject to multiple reviews and
                                                         revisions by the FD and the Bank and the oscillating levels of interest of changing FD directors. In the end,
                                                         the TORs were never finalized. Work on the design of the pilot community forestry program never started.




                                                                           28

Component 3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas

Envisaged at Appraisal                                                 Actually achieved

(i) Strengthen forest protection and inspection services

Establishing a mobile inspectorate unit to audit forest operation at   A State Environmental Inspectorate (GDI) was established within the MEPNR in 2005, with support
district level;                                                        from this Project and other donors.

Strengthening enforcement in the Central Caucasus and other            The Project financed the procurement of 1,000 uniforms, 36 four wheel drive cars, 60 GPS and
selected priority areas through logistical support and equipment       some office equipment (computers, office furniture) for the Forest Department. In addition, 24 four-
for forest guards;                                                     wheel drive cars were procured for GDI.

Supporting integrated forest hazard management, including
providing grants for applied research in forest protection,
refurbishing the forest protection laboratory, undertaking pest and    The envisaged outputs under this activity were not achieved.
fire monitoring, and providing forest hazard protection
equipment. (Indicator: Increase in forest area covered by effective
systems of forest protection from pests, fires and illegal activities)

(ii) Development of seed and nursery facilities

 Construction        of   new    seed   processing,   nursery     and  The seed processing facility, containerized nursery, warehouses, office and laboratory facilities and
      administrative buildings at Sartichala nursery;                  irrigation system were all installed at the Sartichala Nursery site in a timely manner and according
                                                                       to plans. There were some concerns about the construction quality of the physical plant.
 Introduction of seed processing, collection and stand
      improvement equipment;                                           The seed center, completed in 2005, is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, capable of
 Provision of an irrigation system, nursery equipment and              processing 350-400 kg of cones in a 48 hour period. This corresponds to an annual capacity of 44

      machinery;                                                       million seeds. Furthermore, FD nursery staff was trained in the operation of the seed center.
                                                                       Likewise, a containerized nursery (greenhouse) was installed and equipped with state-of-the-art
 Restoration of existing natural windbreaks, fencing and               irrigation equipment by 2005. That facility has the capacity of producing 500,000 seedlings in a 6
      forest protection facilities in Sartichala and use of            month period, meaning that some one million containerized seedlings a year may be produced.
      containerized seedlings;
      o Seed center and nursery rehabilitated and providing            Nevertheless, neither facility became operational and was subject of the OPG investigation. At the

          seedlings for afforestation program                          time of the ICR mission the facility was maintained by hired operators with limited MEPNR
                                                                       budgetary allocations.
 Training of FD staff in improving seed stands, certification
      of seed quality, and in modern systems and technologies for
      quality seedlings production

(iii) Forestation in priority areas

          o Afforestation of 3,100ha and reforestation of 5,700ha      At its early stage, the Project financed development of guidelines for preparing a National



                                                                                29

Component 3. Forest Protection and Reforestation in Selected Priority Areas

Envisaged at Appraisal                                     Actually achieved

       o Increase in the number of rural residents employed Reforestation Program; but this program was never finalized by the MEPNR.
          through local contracts.                          After an initial reforestation of 113 ha and reforestation of 195 ha in 2004, no further plantings were
                                                            done, mainly because of the difficulty of site identification, including in particular the most difficult
                                                            and time consuming task of reaching agreement with local authorities and community
                                                            representatives on priority sites (and signing "Protocols" agreeing on those sites) that could be
                                                            planted without disturbing traditional grazing patterns.

                                                            In early 2007, the Government terminated all planting and reforestation contracts without
                                                            completion (and without consultation with IDA.) with the justification that forestation would be a
                                                            responsibility of future private leaseholders or local self-governments.




                                                                    30

                                                           Annex 2C. Revised Components2


Revision                                             Date of revision     Justification for revision
1. Improve Forest Sector Governance through National Regulatory, Financial and Institutional Reforms.
1.iv. Build public support for sustainable forest management
TA contract for the development of a National        January 2005         Contracted consultant's outputs failed to meet TOR requirements.
Public Awareness Strategy cancelled, instead FD
pledged to finalize and operationalize strategy
using own staff inputs.
2. Improve Forest Planning and Management in Central Caucasus Pilot Area
Inclusion of Borjomi into the Project areas.         Project launch       There were two main reasons given to justify this inclusion: i) Increased illegal
                                                     mission              harvesting to support a multitude of unauthorized sawmills; and ii) Increased
                                                                          populations of the bark beetle (Ips typographus), which is threatening large areas of
                                                                          spruce (Picea orientalis). The mission visited the district, and concurred with the
                                                                          government's evaluation.
2.i. Develop ecosystems-based landscape planning and forest inventory using sustainable forest management principles.
Level 1 inventory activities scaled up to cover key  October 2005         In line with the Government interest to begin the introduction of long-term leases, as a
forest areas in the rest of the country (i.e., an    mission              tool needed to plan the long-term leasing program and delineation of Local Forest
additional 1,300,000 ha),                                                 Fund, as well as the forest protection activities.
2.ii. Develop a forest management information system (FMIS).
FMIS scaled back to more appropriate level of        October 2005         Original FMIS plan was too ambitions and complicated for the current FD capacity.
technology                                           mission




2This table does not include actions that the Implementing Agency failed to do or cancelled without a formal agreement with IDA.



                                                                            31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Analysis at appraisal

The economic analysis at appraisal estimated the economic returns of the entire Project,
of Component 2 and of the "forestation in priority areas" subcomponent of Component 3.
In each case, the analysis quantified the following benefits accruing from the Project:
timber, soil protection, tourism and recreation, carbon sequestration, non-timber forest
products, decreased infrastructure damage, landscape conservation, and biodiversity
conservation. The largest benefits occurred due to an increase in the timber value which
resulted not from an increase in area harvested (it was assumed that the area harvested
remained the same in the with and without Project scenarios) but from higher value per
unit of area harvested due to improved inventory, management systems and harvesting
methods; lower harvesting costs; and reduced losses in harvestable timber due to
improved pest management. Compared with the shadow valued Project costs, the
quantified benefits yielded and overall Project IRR of 18.71 percent. The IRRs for
Component 2 and forestation in priority areas were 17.07 percent and 12.24 percent
respectively.

Post-project analysis

The attainment of the above benefits rested on the implementation of a comprehensive set
of activities included in the Project. However, as detailed in Annex 2, only a small part of
the expected Project outputs were accomplished under the Project. The below section
discusses in a qualitative manner the likely extent of realization of the benefits envisaged
at appraisal in the light of outputs accomplished.

Timber benefits:     Inventories and two forest management plans generated under the
Project will likely contribute to improved harvesting plans which will reduce waste and
increase the per unit value of area harvested. Similarly, the acquisition of vehicles and
equipment for forest guards will help prevent illegal harvesting. On the other hand,
benefits envisaged from the demonstration of improved roads and harvesting methods
and improved pest management will not be realized since these activities did not occur.

Benefits that were anticipated from the afforestation / reforestation sub-component of the
Project, including soil protection (resulting in increased agricultural productivity), non-
timber forest products, landscape/aesthetic benefits, recreation and tourism, carbon
sequestration and decreased damage to infrastructure will likely not materialize. This is
because only a very small part of the afforestation / reforestation component was
completed and, where trees were planted, their maintenance is unsatisfactory. Similar
benefits were also envisaged for the Central Caucasus Pilot Area as a result of better
planning, improved harvesting practices, environment friendly roads, more effective
inspection and improved pest management. However, since only a few of these
improvements were achieved under the Project, the realization of these benefits will be
limited at best.

Biodiversity conservation benefits: While inventories carried out include biodiversity
aspects and a Government decree issued in September 2008 requires that forest
management plans developed by leasers address biodiversity issues too, the lack of



                                             1

guidelines and low level of MEPNR capacity for the review and enforcement of these
plans makes the realization of these benefits doubtful.




                                             2

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Names                  Title                                    Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Andrey Kushlin         Sr. Forestry Specialist                  ECSSD Task Team Leader

Philip Brylski         Sr. Biodiversity Specialist              ECSSD Biodiversity
                                                                       Specialist

Marjory-Anne Bromhead  Sector Manager / Lead Natural ResourceECSSD
                       Economist                                       Quality Control

Tijen Arin             Economist                                ECSSD Economic
                                                                       Analysis/TEV
Charis Wuerffel        Operations Analyst                       ECSSD Project Preparation

David Bontempo         Operations Analyst                       ECSSD Negotiations
                                                                       Support
James Douglas          Peer Reviewer, Lead Operations Officer   ECSSD Peer Review
Janis Bernstein        Sr. Social Economist                      ECSSD Social Aspects
Darejan Kapanadze      Env. Specialist, Operations Officer      ECSSD Env. Aspects
Kerstin Canby          Env. Assessment Specialist                ECSSD EA Review
Jose Martinez          Procurement Specialist                   ECSSD Procurement
Ranjan Ganguli         Sr. Financial Mgt. Officer                ECSSD FM
Ekaterina Arsenyeva    Financial Management Officer             ECSSD FM
Friedrich Peloschek    Lead Counsel                             LEGEM Legal
John Ogallo            Disbursement Specialist                  ECSPS  Disbursements
Zeina Samara           Disbursement Analyst                     AFTTR Disbursements
Supervision/ICR
Andrey Kushlin         Sr. Forestry Specialist, Task Team Leader ECSSD Task Team Lead

Tijen Arin             ICR Team Leader, Sr. EnvironmentalECSSD
                       Economist,                                      ICR Author

Maria L. Amelina       Senior Social Development Spec           ECSSD Social Aspects
David A. Bontempo      Operations Analyst                       ECSSD Project Supervision

Robert Kirmse          Sr. Forestry Spec.                        ECSSD Technical
                                                                       Supervision
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov  Procurement Specialist                    ECSPS Procurement
Ilia Kvitaishvili      Rural Development Specialist             ECSSD Project Supervision
Jesus Renzoli          Senior Procurement Specialist             ECSPS Procurement
Karl Skansing          Consultant                                ECSPS Procurement
Arman Vatyan           Sr. Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS  FM
Juergen Voegele        Sector Manager                            ECSSD Quality Control
John Kellenberg        Sector Manager                           ECSSD Quality Control




                                        3

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD            Thousands
                         No. of staff weeks             (including   travel and
                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                              19.59
  FY98                                                             115.24
  FY99                                                             365.32
  FY00                                                             122.97
  FY01                                                             183.17
  FY02                                37                           110.39
  FY03                                 1.9                           6.16
  FY04                                                               0.00
Total:                                38.9                         922.84
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                               0.70
  FY02                                                               0.74
  FY03                                 32                           65.63
  FY04                                 34                           85.26
  FY05                                 29                           94.99
  FY06                                 30                           87.67
  FY07                                 35                          125.13
  FY08                                 25                           76.90
                                       14                           44.92
Total:                                199                          581.94




                                         4

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not carried out.




                                          5

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
A stakeholder workshop was not carried out.




                                          6

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

  A. MEPNR Comments on draft ICR




                                   7

   B. Summary of the MEPNR's Project Completion Report

   1. Project Development Objective

The goal of the present project is the establishment of an acceptable and effective Forest
Sector Management system that would foster increase of economic efficiency and
Georgian Forests and facilitate eradication of rural poverty through the development of
sustainable invironment protection principles.

   2. Project Implementation Main Indicators

Achievement of the given goals shall be measured using the following indicators.

   1. Increase of income received from the forest sector per unit, which shall be
       reached through the improved forest monitoring, market rent collection
       mechanisms and more efficient use of resources in the project territories;

   2. Through the increase of forest areas covered by the landscape-ecological forest
       inventory, multipurpose plans are developed and managed by an appropriately
       trained and equipped group;

   3. Degraded territories are reduced through forest rehabilitation and re-forestation
       programs;

   4. Increase of provision of low quality fire-wood and fodder to population, through
       local forest management programs;

   5. Increase of public support towards sustainable management of forests, through
       enhanced public participation in the forest management and monitoring.

   3. Main Project Components

   1) Improvement of forest sector management through legal framework, financial and
       institutional reforms (total for this component ­ US$3.6 million);
   2) Improvement of forest planning and management in the pilot territories of the
       Central Caucasus (total for this component ­ US$6.0 million)
   3) Strengthening of Forest protection and rehabilitation/reforestation (total for this
       component ­ US$8.7 million)

Component 1. Improvement of forest sector management through legal framework,
financial and institutional reforms

The following sub-components have been envisaged within the mentioned components:
A. Improvement of the legal structure:
    Improvement of the Forest Code and related legal framework



                                              8

     Elaboration of forests' economic evaluation methodology;
     Elaboration of forest resource auction rules;
B. Elaboration of National Forest Programs
     Fostering elaboration of National Strategy and policy, public awareness;
     Elaboration of National Forest Standards;
C. Strengthening of Forest Sector institutional and financial structures;
     International Technical support in the preparation of a rationalization and staffing
        plan;
     Staff development/trainings (training center);
     Rehabilitation of training offices, central office of the Forest Department and
        rehabilitation-constriction of regional forestry offices; purchase of furniture,
        computers and special office equipment, cars for the central but also for all
        regional offices;
     Renovation of the University teaching means;
     Enhancement of public support;
     Increase of public awareness, elaboration of a strategy and an Action Plan;
     Implementation of the Public Awareness Increase Strategy (TV Clips, printed
        media and publications, TV programs)

36 normative acts envisaged by the 1999 "Forest Code" were elaborated and approved by
the relevant agency; moreover, "Methodology of Economic Evaluation of Forest
Resources" was developed. Although, due to the restructuring process currently
undergoing in the country, corresponding changes had to be made, existence of the main
basis is the project achievement.

Drafts of the regulation on "Community Forests" and "Forest Management Standards"
were elaborated and handed over to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
Protection and the Forest Department for consideration.

International Consultancy Company elaborated "Forest Sector Rationalization and
Institutional Development Plan".

According to the work plan, the initial period of forest sector restructuring had to last for
three years, during which, a splitting of forest sector governing and physical management
functions had to take place. All forests would remain under state ownership but some of
them would be managed through local management bodies and the Patriarchy, while the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection would remain in charge of
Forest Sector Policy and Legal Framework. Income from the Forest Sector would remain
in the latter and would be spent on rehabilitation/reforestation works; forest protection
would be separated from the Forest Economy and Regional Forest Management
Inspectorates would be created.

This document also analyzed the human resources issue- preparation of forestry
specialists and re-training issued. Concrete recommendations were issued.




                                              9

Final Report on the forest sector rationalization and institutional development plan was
distributed to all relevant executive services for their consideration.

In the Framework of this component, rehabilitation works of the regional forest offices
(Akhaltsikhe, Khashuri, Kutaisi, Kharagauli, Kvareli, Ozurgeti, Bolnisi, Sagarejo,
Dusheti, Ambrolauri, Lentekhi, Khaishi, and Dendrology Training Center) were
completed. In addition, some construction works on the Forest Department offices and
the training center took place. Some furniture, computers, office equipment and 62 cars
(1 Volkswagen and 61 Nivas) have been purchased.

Forest Sector restructuring project/draft was submitted to the government in September
2003 but due to political processes in the country, they have not been discussed yet.

Component 2. Improvement of forest Planning and Management in the Central
Caucasus Pilot Area.

The following sub-components were envisaged under the present component:
A. International technical assistance in Forest Inventory Taking and Management
Planning;
B. Improvement of Natural Resources Inventory taking;
C. Creation of FMIS:
D. Demonstration of Forest Operations influencing the environment:

New timber assortment tables were elaborated and handed over to the Forest Department
for their use. The tables took into account Georgian timber varieties. New Methodology
on Forest Management Plans' was developed (stopped at the testing stage). Landscape-
ecologic carcass maps were developed (37 districts were completed). Colored aerial
orthophotography of forest territories has been completed in Oni, Ambrolauri, Tsageri,
Lentekhi and Mestia districts at 1:20 000 scale. The forests current condition is clearly
seen in these photos.

Field works on inventory taking were completed in Oni, Ambrolauri, Borjomi-Bakuriani,
Tsageri, Lentekhi, Mestia and Achara. Obtained materials were processed and Forestry
Management Plans have been developed for Oni and Ambrolauri, while remaining works
have been suspended.        In the Framework of this Project, equipment required for
inventory taking was purchased.

Component 3. Strengthening of the Forest Protection and Rehabilitation /
Reforestation

The present component envisaged the following sub-components:
A. Strengthening of the forest protection and inspection services;
B. Strengthening of the nursery;
C. Improvement of seed preparation and processing;
D. Elaboration of Forestation program.




                                             10

1. In the framework of the present project, pathological condition of fur-trees and Imereti
Regular Chesnutt trees in Borjomi Valley and laboratory zone was examined.

As a result of this analysis, the project developed "Current Situation on the Spread of
Harmful Pests and Integrated Pest Management Plan" and "Integrated Methods of
Current Disease Control in Imereti Forests" and recommendations on measures to be
implemented.

2. In the framework of the present Project, Sartichala Forest Nursery rehabilitation works
were conducted. In particular, a new administration, exploitation and storage buildings
and also fully functional offices, seed processing object, equipment repair workshops
were constructed, a greenhouse was purchased and assembled, all equipment and
machinery was purchased.       Nursing of trees required for forest rehabilitation and
forestation works took place along with the rehabilitation works.

3. Forest rehabilitation and forestation instructions and frame plan were elaborated in
support of rehabilitation and forestation works.

4. The project envisaged concluding rehabilitation and forestation works in 9 rayons.
Due to the fact that during the project implementation, establishment of a sustainable
mechanism of financing forest rehabilitation and reforestation which was foreseen by the
Policy Letter of the Government and was one of the Project conditions, work was not
made possible, full implementation of the project in this part was not possible and was
concluded only partially as a testing of the experimental model.    In particular, the soil
was prepared and reforestation was completed on 113,5 hectares of the mentioned rayons,
while works aimed at facilitation of natural reforestation- on 192,0 hectares.         All
rehabilitated areas were accepted by the department and handed over to the Forest
Economies for further maintenance.

5. In agreement with the World Bank and in the period, newly established environment
protection inspectorates were strengthened.       Uniforms for the forest Department
employees were purchased (1000 uniforms)

Component 4. Project Management and Monitoring

In May 2006, Project Implementation unit was reorganized. Reorganization was
concluded due to some amendments in the legal framework, stemming from which the
State Forest Department was merged with the Ministry of Environment and Protection of
Natural Resources and became its part, a State Subordinate Entity. Moreover, three
independent project implementation units, in particular, "Forest Sector Development
Center", "Coast Zone Integrated Management Center" and Protected Territories
Development center were merged resulting in "Sustainable Development projects
implementation Unit". After the merger, number of staff members was reduced from 30
to 23 persons.




                                            11

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Caucasus Programme Office

WWF was not closely involved in the last years of Project implementation and is not
aware of some important circumstances, therefore, WWF does not feel entitled to provide
comments or evaluations. Concerning technical aspects, WWF strongly supports the idea
of conducting forest inventory, elaboration and adoption of the new forestry policy, forest
code (reflecting present situation) and revitalizing nurseries to support forest restoration
projects.




                                            12

                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


ACTA Consultants, 2001. "Sectoral Environmental Assessment. Georgia Forests
      Development Project Laboratory Zone", Final Report. May 2001.

Arin, Tijen and J. Siry, 2000. "Total Economic Valuation of Georgian Forests under the
      Current Resource Management Regime". August 2000. Preliminary analysis
      submitted to the Government of Georgia and Stakeholders for discussion.

FAO Consultants Program, 1999. "Forestry Development Project". Unpublished Project
      Identification Report.

FAO Consultant Program, 1999. "National Forestry Development Program".
      Unpublished Project Preparation Report.

Georgian Opinion Research Business International, 2000. "Social Assessment for the
      Georgia Forests Development Project proposed for World Bank financing",
      Tbilisi, May 12, 2000.

JAAKKO POYRY, 1997. "Georgian Forest Strategy" Prepared as part of World Bank
      Institutional Development Fund ­supported National Environmental Protection
      Strategy Plan. Final version.

The World Bank, 1996. "Georgia Forestry Policy Note". Unpublished background
      discussion paper by World Bank staff for dialogue with the Government of
      Georgia.




                                          13

