Report No. 722a-SL                                                                 FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Eclucation Project
in Sierra Leone
June 24, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional O)ffice
Not for Public Use
Document of the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Leone (Le)!/
US$1.00 =       Le 0. 33
Le.1 =          US$1.20
1/ A fixed parity exists between the Leone and the
pound sterling: £i =Le 2
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......    ................... i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION        .......................          1
II.    THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ......    .................   1
A.   Physical and Economic Environment .... .......  1
B.   Employment Requirements and Output from
the Education System .....    ..............  2
III.    ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ......    ..................   4
A.  Subsector Policy .......     ....................  5
B.  Education Planning Policy .....     ..............  6
C.  IDA's Potential Role in Policy
Implementation ......    ...................   7
IV.    THE PROJECT . ......................................   8
A.   General . ....................................   8
B.  The Project Components ......     ................  9
C.  Project Cost .........    .......................  15
V.    IMPLEMENTATION ...........   ........................  18
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ........ 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Sierra Leone in January 1975. The mission consisted of Ms. J. Edstrom
(economist) and Messrs. R. Romain (general educator) and G. Hadjicostas
(civil engineer).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
APPENDICES
I.    First Education Project:  Attainment of Objectives
II.    Education and Training
III.    Education Finance and Expenditure
ANNEXES
1      Comparative Education Indicators
2      Sectoral Distribution of GDP at Factor Cost, 1963/64, 1970/71
3      Working Population by Major Industry Group, 1964, 1975
4      High and Middle-level Manpower Requirements by Major Industry
Group, 1975-1979
5      Actual and Projected Enrollments by Level
6      Requirements for Specialist Services and Fellowships
7a     Summary of Estimated Project Costs
7b     Estimated Costs by Project School:  Secondary and Trade Schools
and Instructional Resource Centers
8a     Contingency Allowances
8b     Price Contingency Assumptions
9      IDA Financing by Category of Expenditure
10      Schedule of Disbursements
11     'Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure
12      Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1      Structure of the Education System
2      Organizational Structure - Ministry of Education, 1974/75
3      Distribution of Primary and General Secondary Enrollments, 1971/72
MAP        IBRD 2645R Sierra Leone:  Second Education Project



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEO                                   Community Education Center
CRS                                   Catholic Relief Services
GCE "C" Level Examinations            General Certificate of Education ordinary
and SCE                                level examinations and School Certificate
Examination, taken at the end of fifth
year of secondary education to qualify
for university entry
IPAM                                  Institute of Public Administration and
Management
IRC                                   Instructional Resource Center
MSW                                   Ministry of Social Welfare
NTC                                    Ministry of Social Welfare National
Training Center
SDW                                   Social Development Wbrker:  Ministry
of Social Welfare field worker
SEE                                   Selective Entrance Examination, taken
at the end of primary education to
qualify for entry into secondary school






SIERRA LEONE
BASIC DATA
General
Area                               71,840 km2
Population (mid-1971)              2,668,ooo
Exchange rate (April 1, 1975)       Le. 1 = US$ 1.2020
Education
Enrollment (1972/73)                                           Unadjusted
Enrollment Ratio (J970/71)
Primary                            178,100                     34;
Secondary                           39,450                     11%
Vocational                              890
Teacher Training                     1,390
Higher                                2,550
- University of Sierra Leone (1,350)
- Abroad                      (1,200)
Teachers        Number         ; Qualified         ; Sierra Leonean
Primary          5,550              4°0                  100%
Secondary         1,850              62%                   74%
Education Finance (1973)
Public Education Expenditures per capita                 $6
Percent of Current Government Expenditures               22.bA
devoted to Education
Percent of GNP devoted to Education (Public
Expenditures only)                                      3.1 
1/ Comparative education data in Annex 1.






SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project for Sierra Leone,
for which an IDA credit of US$7.25 million is proposed.
ii.       As in other West African countries, Sierra Leone's education system
has grown rapidly since independence. The Government has made an effort to
improve the quality of education by modernizing secondary curricula and
consolidating teacher training programs. The first education project (Credit
170-SL, of June 1970) assisted in these efforts by providing: (a) specialist
services to revise and modernize secondary curricula; and (b) extensions to
existing secondary and teacher training facilities. The project is achieving
its educational objectives of introducing more relevant curricula in second-
ary schools, encouraging educational planning efforts and increasing staff
and space utilization in secondary schools.
iii.      The education system continues nevertheless to be confronted with
a number of problems such as low internal and external efficiency, growing
financial constraints, inadequate facilities and teaching staff and, until
recently, lack of an education development strategy. Now, however, two im-
portant planning reports have been published: the National Development Plan,
1974/75-1978/79, with an extensive education chapter, and a university-
sponsored Education Review aimed at defining a long-term pattern of education-
al development. Both support the goals of:
(a) more rapid expansion of primary and related teacher education;
(b) greater alignment of secondary and post-secondary programs
with employment needs; and
(c) reinforcement of planning and budgetary mechanisms to program
future growth of the system and to hold growth of current
education expenditure to 4.5 percent p.a. in real terms.
iv.       The proposed project has been designed within the framework of
these objectives. The project would assist in:
A.   Continuing the efforts initiated under the first project
to diversify programs at the secondary level in order to
improve the "trainability" and employability of vocational
and secondary school leavers through provision of:
1.   Construction and/or equipment for introducing practical
instruction in 19 existing secondary schools, including



- ii -
complementary works at six first project schools and
staff houses (US$2,500,000);
2.   Construction, equipment, and fellowships for a
technical teacher training program at a secondary teacher
college, required to expand the number of teachers of
technical and commercial subjects to implement the new
curricula in the secondary schools of the first and
proposed second project and other schools in the country
(US$835,000); and
3.   Construction and equipment for three trade schools, needed
to improve the quality of instruction and to allow the
institutions to operate at full capacity (US$700,000).
B.   Supporting emerging interest in rural and nonformal training
through provision of:
1.   A pilot studies fund, to be administered by the Institute of
Education, to finance studies to improve elementary educa-
tion (US$185,000); and
2.   Construction, equipment, specialist services and fellowships to
assist the Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center
in undertaking experimental programs for improving the train-
ing of rural development personnel (US$710,000).
C.   Improving the efficiency of educational planning, management and
management training through provision of:
1.   Construction, equipment, and fellowships for the Ministry of
Education planning unit (US$190,000);
2.   Specialist services to assist in establishing a University of
Sierra Leone Development Plan (US$185,000);
3.   Construction, equipment, specialist services and fellowships
for the Institute of Education and five regional instructional
resource centers at existing primary teachers colleges for
the Institute's work in the provinces (US$1,715,000); and
4.   Construction, equipment, specialist services and fellowships
to establish an Institute of Public Administration and
Management to train managers in the public and private sectors
(US$675,000).
The project would also finance staffing, equipment and office rental for
project administration.



- iii -
v.        The thrust of the proposed second project is consistent with a
pattern in education lending which is emerging from the Bank Group's operations
recently appraised or being designed in several coastal West African coun-
tries. It emphasizes:
(i) A closer linkage between the education and training system
and employment, to ensure that its outputs are more employ-
able (through broadening of curricula) and that the
effectiveness of their training increases their productivity
and chances of promotion on-the-job (through simulation of
an industrial environment);
(ii) Research into means of broadening the relevance and meaning-
fulness of the minimum education package received by those
who have the opportunity to go to school, and of extending its
benefits to a larger share of the rural population, including
adults; and
(iii) A concerted effort to provide the administrative and human
means to achieve these objectives, namely through management
and planning studies and reforms, and training of managers,
administrators and teachers.
vi.       The project unit established under the Ministry of Finance for the
first project would be responsible for project administration. Architectural
and engineering consulting services for all project institutions except small
self-help works would be provided by a joint venture established between the
architects employed for the first project and a local engineering/quantity
surveying firm. This arrangement, the participating firms and the contract
negotiated by the Government with the joint venture are all acceptable to IDA.
To allow the consultants to begin work on preliminary designs before Credit
signing, retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$30,000, is recommended.
vii.      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, except for
self-help works, for which the project would finance building materials esti-
mated to cost US$60,000. The complementary works for first project schools
would be carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in the first project. Furniture and equipment would also
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. To the extent
practicable, equipment would be grouped in lots of at least uS$40,000. Local
manufacturers of furniture, equipment and teaching materials would be given
a preferential margin of up to 15 percent of the C.I.F. costs of competing
imports or the currently applicable import duty, whichever is lower. The
self-help building materials and numerous small items of furniture, eauip-
ment and teaching materials which cannot be satisfactorily grouped into lots
would be purchased locally on the basis o' quotations following local pro-
cedures which are acceptable to IDA. The total amount of such purchases
would not exceed USS230,000.



- iv -
viii.     Expenditures for civil works and professional services comprising
the complementary works for first project schools would be retroactively
financed, up to a maximum of US$205,000 for civil works and US$31,000 for
professional services.
ix.       Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$11.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$7.25 million. The
proposed IDA credit of US$7.25 million equivalent would finance the foreign
exchange costs, or 66 percent of total costs net of taxes. The project
would be completed in about 4-1/2 years.
x.        The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$7.25 million equivalent.



SIERRA LEONE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first IDA education project in Sierra Leone (Cr. 170-SL, signed
in June 1970 with December 31, 1975, as the closing date) was directed largely
toward improving and diversifying education at the secondary level. The
project included extensions to existing facilities at secondary and trade
schools, a technical institute and a primary teachers college. Specialist
services were provided to assist in revising and modernizing secondary curri-
cula. Implementation of the first project can be considered generally suc-
cessful both in educational and physical terms (Appendix I). To fully achieve
its objectives, however, additional works at some of the schools need to be
financed, together with a training program for technical teachers.
1.02      In preparation for a second education project, a Unesco identifica-
tion mission visited Sierra Leone in January/February 1973. ActiQn on the
report was postponed because of possible changes in the education system as
a result of two important education planning exercises undertaken by the
Government and the University of Sierra Leone, the conclusions of which became
known about June 1974. Agreement on the project composition and preliminary
specifications was obtained as a result of an IDA preappraisal mission in
July/August 1974. The project was appraised in January 1975 by an IDA mis-
sion comprising Ms. J. Edstrom (economist) and Messrs. R. Romain (general
educator) and G. Hadjicostas (civil engineer).
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   Physical and Economic Environment
2.01      Sierra Leone, with an area about twice the size of Switzerland,
has a population of around 2.7 million. Mineral exploitation, notably
diamonds, constitutes the mainstay of the modern sector, contributing 16
percent of GDP, 12 percent of Government revenues and 75 percent of exports.
Agriculture, based mostly on traditional farming, accounts for one-third of
GDP and employs three-quarters of the labor force. The growth of manufac-
turing has been limited; most industries are foreign-owned and capital-
intensive, rely mainly on imported raw and semi-finished materials and enjoy
a high degree of effective protection.
2.02      Real GDP growth averaged 4.6 percent per annum from 1963/64-1970/71,
an impressive performance by West African standards (Annex 2). However, this
average rate conceals sharp year-to-year fluctuations -- with some years



- 2 -
showing negative growth, caused by shifts in the world diamond market. Real
growth of agricultural production averaged only 1.6 percent per year over the
period, which caused an increase in food imports from about 18 percent during
the 1960's to an estimated 25 percent of total imports by 1973/74. Although
per capita income averages US$160, the poorest 40 percent of the population,
largely in agriculture, receive just over 10 percent of total personal income.
The low standard of living is reflected in the poor health situation; life
expectancy is 40 to 45 years, and the rate of infant mortality is a high 183
per 1,000.
2.03      Development prospects for Sierra Leone are mixed.  Constraints
on growth will be imposed by shortages of resources and skilled manpower, the
former aggravated by recent changes in commodity prices, the likely depletion
of diamond reserves toward the end of the decade and international inflation.
A recent IBRD economic mission to Sierra Leone has projected an average rate
of real GDP growth of about 3.5 percent per annum through 1980; even this
rate of growth will require stepped-up efforts to diversify the economy and
improve agriculture. 1/
2.04      Recognizing the need for a more systematic development effort, the
Government, with UNDP assistance, adopted in August 1974 a National Development
Plan 1974/75-1978/79. The Plan gives priority to the agricultural sector,
which is now viewed as the key to achieving overall development objectives
such as a satisfactory growth rate, more equitable income distribution, im-
proved living standards in rural areas, and expansion of the export base.
While export performance is expected to continue to rely heavily on mineral
production, strong efforts are to be made to increase agricultural exports,
to establish agricultural processing industries, and to develop the country's
hydroelectric potential.
2.05      A noteworthy feature of the National Development Plan is its emphasis
on self-help projects; it provides for government grants totalling Le.10
million over the five-year period to local institutions and communities for
constructing feeder roads, water supply schemes, health and community centers
and schools. Distribution of these funds will require qualified personnel
to provide technical assistance in preparing and implementing projects. A
cadre of technically capable public servants and sound administrative services
and management are in fact prerequisites to translating any of the Plan's
proposals into action programs. The Plan itself stresses the existing defici-
encies in public administration as one of the most decisive bottlenecks in
successful implementation of the Plan.
B.   Employment Requirements and Output from the Education System
2.06      The population of Sierra Leone, growing at 2.2 percent per annum,
is predominantly rural, with 73 percent of the working population employed
in agriculture (Annex 3). Although there are no statistics delineating modern
vs. traditional sector employment, or indicating the extent of underemployment,
1/   IBRD, Sierra Leone:  Current Economic Position and Prospects,
November 27, 1974.



- 3 -
41 percent of the labor force are employers or self-employed (mainly in farming
or "petty" commerce), 43 percent are unpaid household workers and only 12
percent are wage or salary workers. An estimated 4 percent of the labor
force, or 47,000 people, are unemployed. Services -- transport, storage,
communication, public administration and financial services -- provide most
of the wage earning jobs, and employment in these sectors has grown relatively
fast. Nevertheless, only about 21 percent of the net increase in employment
(i.e., excluding attrition) was in salaried employment during the decade
1962-72.
2.07.     During the Plan period, it is estimated that in the modern sector
of the economy 4,000 new jobs requiring high and middle-level manpower (in-
cluding all categories of teachers) (Annex 4) plus about 6,100 jobs requiring
skilled-level manpower, will be created. Another 5,800 jobs will become
available at these levels through labor force attrition, the rate of which
averages about 1.6 percent per annum. Hence, job openings for skilled,
middle and high-level manpower will total almost 16,000 over the period
1975-79, or roughly 3,200 per year (Appendix II).
2.08      Outputs from the University (almost 120 per annum) are expected to
meet about three-quarters of high-level manpower requirements.  The area of
greatest shortage is technicians and middle-level manpower, largely attributable
to the lack of 2-3 year subdegree programs either at or outside the University.
At the skilled labor level, outputs from vocational education are projected
to equal about 60 percent of industrial skilled labor requirements, while
outputs from general secondary education will equal more than four times the
number of skilled clerical and service jobs available. However, because
secondary curricula are highly academic and vocational curricula are ill-adapted
to employers' needs, both secondary and vocational school leavers are poorly
equipped for the skilled job market.
2.09      To improve school leavers' employability -- or the trainability of
those going into vocational programs, secondary school curricula need to be
strengthened in the science and mathematics disciplines and broadened to
include practical options such as commercial and technical subjects. Students
should also be introduced to technological concepts, such as sources of energy,
use of power, shaping of wood or metal, and a general introduction to indus-
try. Diversification of the secondary program will have to be approached
through: provision of additional physical facilities, equipment and materials
at secondary schools; creation or adaption of curricula to the Sierra Leone
environment; and training of teachers in the sciences, mathematics and tech-
nical and commercial subjects. At the trade schools, curricula need to be
linked more to employers' needs to increase the schools' effectiveness in
producing the sort of workers who can be readily upgraded to the skilled
level. Vocational education should be brought closer to an actual irndustrial
environment but curricula should also be broadened to include some basic
theoretical concepts to allow students to assimilate more easily what they
will learn on the job and improve their prospects for promotion.



- 4 -
2.10      With regard to teacher requirements, annual output from primary
teacher training colleges will have to be expanded bv the end of the decade
from the present 300 to about 500 to meet the projected rapid growth of
primary enrollments in the 1980's. The Government policy to substantially
decrease the rate of secondary enrollment growth will create a theoretical
surplus in secondary teacher output, which is likely to be used to reduce the
proportion of expatriate teachers, who comprise 30 Dercent of the secondary
teaching force, or to temporarily withdraw unqualified local teachers to give
them further training.  In planning future growth of secondary teacher college
enrollments, intake will have to be more sharDly attuned to requirements by
discipline (para. 4.05).
2.11      There are several specific areas of manpower shortage which are
not revealed in the above aggregates but which are crucial to Sierra Leone's
economic development. There are severe shortages of agricultural extension
agerts, due largely to poorly adapted training programs.  A proposed U.K.
finalnced training project plus the inservice training provided through the
IDA agriculture projects should help alleviate this constraint. Also needed
is al cadre of rural development workers capable of providing complementary
inputs to those aimed at improving agricultural output. These inputs should
include provision of healtlh and nutrition instruction to rural populations to
reduce infant mortality and improve worker productivity (para. 2.02), and
assistance in implementing rural works projects as part of self-help programs
(para. 2.05). Finally, there are insufficient numbers of technically capable
managers and administrators in both the public and private sectors (para. 2.05).
If the Government is to mobilize and efficiently allocate the resources needed
to implement its Plan, it will have to intensify programs of management train-
ing.
III.  ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
3.01      During the past year, Sierra Leonean educators and planners have
scrutinized the shortcomings of the education system, 1/ established policy
o'bjectives, and recommended measures required for their achievement. First,
the Ministry of Education's planning unit has worked closely with the Ministry
of Development in designing the education program of the National Development
Plan, 1974/75-1978/79. Second, the University of Sierra Leone, in collabora-
tion with the Ministry of Education and local educationists, has sponsored
an Education Review to help define a long-term pattern of educational develop-
ment for the country. Although the proposals of the two documents differ in
siDme respects, as can be expected from two studies with different time hori-
zons, they both support for meditm-ternm planning the goals of:
(i) more rapid expansion of primary education and related teacher
education;
'J   The education and training system is described in Appendix II.  Actual and
projected enrollments are presented in Annex 5.



(ii)  deceleration of secondary and university enrollment growth,
acceleration of vocational and technical enrollment growth,
and greater alignment of all secondary and post-secondary
programs with employment needs; and
(iii) reduction in growth of current education expenditure to
4.5 percent p.a. in real terms.
A.   Subsector Policy
3.02      Elementary Education.  With the relatively low proporation (34 per-
cent) of the school-age population enrolled in primary school and the 70-85
percent illiteracy rate of the total population, the Ministry of Education
is seeking means to broaden access to education and adapt it to the rural
environment where the majority live. The Ministry recently endorsed the
Education Review's proposal to reduce the primary program from 7 to 6 years
in its endeavor to reach 60 percent of the primary age group by 1990. The
Education Review has also proposed establishment of community education centers
(CEC's), which are to provide basic literacy and skill training to adults and
youths aged 13-17 with no or incompleted primary schooling. The educational,
organizational and financial implications of both proposals need to be care-
fully worked out. As a first step the Ministry of Education plans to include
some of the required experimentation within the context of a recently initiated
UNDP/Unesco project which is aimed at adapting primary teacher training to
the rural environment; it also intends to carry out under the Institute of
Education a number of complementary studies (para. 4.13). If the results of
the experiments and studies are positive, the Government will be in a position
to adopt these policy changes.
3.03      The Ministry of Social Welfare is involved in nonformal training
activities through its social development workers (SDWs) who, together with
voluntary agency personnel, provide nutrition and health instruction to rural
women and assist villages in small self-help construction projects (Appendix
II). Since the Ministry has now been given overall responsibility for direc-
tion and financial control of the Government's self-help programs, its staff
will need to be expanded (paras. 2.05, 2.11). Its training program for
social development workers should correspondingly be strengthened and broad-
ened to give trainees sufficient administrative and interdisciplinary devel-
opment skills. If the CEC concept proves operational (para. 3.02), the com-
munity centers would draw on the SDWs for teaching the health, nutrition and
community development components of their programs.
3.04      Secondarv Education.  Consistent with manpower needs (paras. 2.08,
2.09), both the Plan and the Education Review propose reducing enrollment
growth in secondarv education and introducing more practical subjects into
the secondary curriculum. The first education project initiated the effort
to reduce the heavily academic, blackboard approach to learning at the secondary
level by assisting in curriculum revision and by constructing labs, workshops
and multipurpose rooms in a number of secondary schools. Although the project



- 6 -
is not yet completed, broadened course offerings have been instituted in most
project schools, and the project is having a spill-over effect in some non-
project schools. There are, however, a number of obstacles to overcome if
diversification efforts are to be continued, such as provision of additional
physical facilities in secondary schools, further development of curricula
and training of teachers in the appropriate disciplines. Moreover, teachers
of 1these subjects will have to be provided greater incentives, e.g., in matters
of housing, to teach in remote areas of the country. The proposed project
would assist to overcome these obstacles.
3.05      Vocational Education.  Aware of the inadequacies of the vocational
schools in producing skilled and semi-skilled manpower (para. 2.08), the
Elan places particular priority on their improvement.  The first education
project expanded the trade schools, and an associated UNDP/ILO project is
rationalizing their programs, improving liaison with employers, assisting
with the setting up of an apprenticeship scheme and training vocational
instructors. With some modification in structure and content of the programs
(para. 2.09), the trade schools should be in a position (a) to better prepare
stuclents for industrial employment; and (b) to work with industry in devising
inservice training programs. These additional efforts would be supported
by the proposed project.
3.06      Higher Education.  The Plan and the Education Review recognize that
there is a risk of oversupply of graduates in some disciplines in the 1980's.
Ihe Plan recommends that the University develop more pronounced employment-
oriented admission and scholarship policies, neither of which is closely
linked to manpower requirements at present. Any expansion of the University
will have to be based on a well-conceived university development plan which
takes regard of both employment requirements and financial constraints.
Careful scrutiny of university finance is particularly important since higher
education already absorbs 30 percent of the current education budget.
B.   Education Planning Policy
3.07      The Ministry of Education and the University of Sierra Leone have
already demonstrated their commitment to planning for educational development.
This planning effort is reinforced by a University Institute of Education,
established in 1968 and financed by both the University and the Ministry.
Because of its dual financing, the Institute has linked the two institutions
in the areas of curriculum development, materials support, teacher training
and research. Having initiated planning efforts, these agencies are now con-
fronted with the task of translating the Plan into concrete programs and
incorporating the Education Review recommendations into medium- and long-
term planning. In preparation for this work, the Ministry of Education is
transferring the planning unit from a line to staff function, and has expanded
its staff and appointed a well-qualified and experienced principal education
officer to head the unit. However, the planning unit has a number of pressing
assignments to undertake: systems for data collection and analysis will need
to be developed; evaluation of the efficiency and administration of schools



- 7 -
will need to be systematized; and an inventory of school buildings is re-
quired to optimize staff and space utilization and plan for future enrollment
growth.
3.08      Devising programs and policy within the framework of a 4.5 percent
rate of real annual expenditure growth (an estimated 9.5 percent in current
prices) will be especially difficult, given the average annual rate of 11.6
percent (current prices) for education expenditure over the past decade, a
period of relative price stability. It will be nevertheless necessary since
current education expenditure now accounts for 23 percent of the current
budget (Appendix III). The Government should be able to stay below the 4.5
percent ceiling if it adheres to the enrollment and unit cost projections of
the Plan and Education Review.
3.09      While the proposed changes in enrollment growth should begin to
redistribute expenditure more equitably among the different levels, the Govern-
ment should also consider instituting cost-saving measures such as: introduc-
ing a loan element into the university scholarship system, relying more on
self-help for building primary schools and community centers and optimizing
staff and space utilization, particularly at the secondary level and above.
Educational planners will further need to continually assess the job prospects
of school leavers to increase and maintain the external efficiency of programs
at all levels of the system.
C.   IDA's Potential Role in Policy Implementation
3.10      Summing up, the above assessment of Sierra Leone's employment re-
quirements and education development strategy reveals three main priorities
for action and corresponding areas of IDA support:
(a) To create a closer linkage between the education and training
system and employment, particularly at the secondary level,
secondary curricula should be broadened and trade school programs
should be brought closer to an actual industrial environment
(para. 2.09). The proposed project would strengthen this linkage
by encouraging the introduction of more relevant instruction at
existing secondary and trade schools and by establishing a tech-
nical teacher training program for secondary schools;
(b) Research and experimentation is required to better adapt the
existing educational base to the rural envirorment and to
find ways, at minimum cost and most likely through nonformal
approaches, of extending the base to a larger share of the
rural population, including adults (para. 3.02, 3.03). The
project would finance studies in these areas and assist in
improving the training of rural development workers under the
Ministry of Social Welfare, and



- 8 -
(c)  Administrative and planning mechanisms need to be provided to
achieve these objectives, namely through strengthening
educational planning and management, and training managers,
administrators and teachers (paras. 2.11, 3.07-3.09). The
project would assist the planning efforts of the Ministry of
Education planning unit, the University of Sierra Leone admin-
istration and the Institute of Education, and would establish an
institute for training private and public sector managers.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The project would consist of:
(a) Construction of buildings and/or equipment for:
(i)  19 existing secondary schools;
(ii)  A technical teacher training program at the secondary
teacher college;
(iii)  Three trade schools improved under the first project;
(iv)  The Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center;
(v)  The Ministry of Education planning unit;
(vi)  The Institute of Education's Freetown headquarters and
the Institute's instructional resource centers at the
five primary teacher colleges; and
(vii)  An Institute of Public Administration and Management.
(b)  The provision of:
(i)  31 man-years of specialist services and 18-1/2 man-years
of fellowships for the institutions (ii) and (iv) to (vii)
above;
(ii)  a pilot studies: fund to improve elementary education; and
(iii)  3 man-years of specialist services to assist in establishing
a university development plan.
(c) Staffing, equipment and office rental for project administration.



- 9 -
Requirements for specialist services and fellowships by project component are
provided in Annex 6.
B.   The Project Components
Practical Instruction in Secondary Schools
4.02      The project schools would broaden course offerings, especially in
the three lower secondary grades, to include practical science, agriculture,
home economics. and technical and commercial studies. Because the proposed
additions consist largely of specialized rooms, the project facilities would
not directly add to the existing enrollment capacity at this level. They
would however help to regionally equalize access to a quality secondary edu-
cation since all but one of the schools selected for physical facilities are
outside the capital of Freetown. The total of 24 schools assisted under the
first and second projects represent about 23 percent of all secondary schools
in the country.
4.03      The project would finance:
(i) construction of self-contained blocs, mainly for science and
technology, plus equipment for 5 existing secondary schools
at Port Loko, Madina, Sewafe, Yonnibana and Shenge;
(ii)  replacement of 1 secondary school which is in makeshift
quarters at Freetown;
(iii) furniture and/or equipment for teaching science, agriculture,
technical and commercial subjects in 7 schools at Kamabai,
Moyamba, Kailahuan, Segbwema, Kambia and Freetown (2);
(iv)  16 staff houses at 6 first and second project schools at
Madina, Sewafe, Shenge, Bumpe, Jimmi and Taiama, i.e., in
remote regions where no housing is available; and
(v) already approved complementary works at 6 first project
schools.
The complementary works (v), consisting mostly of structural repairs for
existing school buildings, would be retroactively financed, up to a maximum
of US$205,000 for civil works and US$31,000 for professional services. The
location of and space standards for the staff houses to be built under the
project have been determined according to criteria acceptable to IDA. The
Government agreed during negotiations to further consult with IDA on its
staff housing policy.
Technical Teacher Training for Secondary Schools
4.04      Since secondary teachers of agriculture and home economics are
already being trained at the Njala Campus of the University of Sierra Leone,



- 10 -
the purpose of this item is to train those teachers who will be required to
expand curricula in technical and commercial subjects in secondary schools
(para. 3.04 and Appendix I). It consists of the provision of 10 man-years
cf fellowships plus academic and boarding facilities for 120 additional
students at Milton Margai Teachers College, a secondary teacher training
college located nine miles from Freetown. The U.K. has expressed its willing-
ness to finance through the British Council the specialists required. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will, within three
months of Credit signing, finalize its request for such assistance.
4.05      The proposed three-year technical teacher training program, leading
to the Higher Teachers Certificate, would supply 18-20 teachers per year in
each of the two disciplines--technical and commercial. This would allow most
schools in the country to employ at least one qualified technical and commer-
cial teacher by the mid-1980's. Thereafter, the annual number of teachers
produced would compensate for losses in the system and allow for possible
expansion. In addition to their specialization in technical or commercial
studies, graduates would be qualified to teach a related subject such as
mathematics for technical teachers or English for commercial teachers. Since
there is a risk of over-supply of secondary teachers in the 1980's (para.
2.10), the Government provided assurances during negotiations that it will
regularly update its secondary enrollment projections and corresponding
teacher requirements by discipline, and adjust accordingly intake into second-
ary teacher training programs at the University of Sierra Leone.
Additional Facilities for Trade Schools
4.06      Three trade schools, at Kenema, Kissy and Magburaka, were improved
and expanded under the first project. Discussions with employers and evalua-
tion of the schools' operations show that the programs should be further
improved to include basic theoretical concepts in the curricula and to place
students in an environment which more closely approximates actual conditions
in industry (para. 2.09). One trade school has already been successful in
introducing practical experience through the establishment of a production
unit which employs students for one year after graduation in producing for
sale school furniture, tools and utensils. The UNDP/ILO technical assistance
project ongoing in the trade schools (para. 3.05), now in its second phase
under new leadership, is in a position to help with the establishment of
production units at the other two trade schools and, in general, to improve
the quality of the trade school leavers. To assist in these efforts, the
second IDA project would provide modest additional buildings and equipment
at the schools, including workshops to be operated as production units. The
revenues generated from the sale of goods produced by the units are expected
to cover the units' fixed and variable costs, amortizing the capital invest-
ment in 15 years. A dormitory and two staff houses would be provided at one
center located in a small towni so that increased enrollment would ensure
fuller utilization of facilities. When operating at full capacity, the three
trade schools would produce annually 340 graduates with the capability of



- 11 -
being readily upgraded to skilled level jobs once in employment. This output
would meet about 43 percent of annual skilled labor requirements; the remaining
requirements would be met by programs in the technical ministries or state
corporations and by on-the-job upgrading. To evaluate the effectiveness of
the improved training programs, the Government has given assurances that:
(i)  the operation of the production units, including mangement,
accounting and provision of materials, will be autonomous
vis-a-vis the trade school administration; and
(ii)  it will furnish to IDA for its review (a) the curricular
and work program of the production units; (b) semi-annual
accounts of the production units' operations, in sufficient
detail to evaluate the commercial viability of the units;
and (c) regular reports produced by the UNDP/ILO vocational
training project team.
Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center
4.07      The purpose of assisting the Ministry of Social Welfare National
Training Center at Bo is to strengthen its existing programs for the training
of rural health or community development workers (paras. 2.05, 2.11, 3.03).
The training program would emphasize planning and budgetary techniques, liai-
son with other ministries working in the rural sector, case study of and field
experience in a traditional village, and processing of funding requests with-
in the public administration, in addition to the existing training in maternal
and child health care and self-help construction. The specific content of
the program would require modification of the job profile of the social de-
velopment worker, and definition of the organizational framework in which he
would work, in light of the Ministry's new role. The detailed nature of the
Ministry's role would in turn be a function of the guidelines for the alloca-
tion and administration of self-help funds to be drawn up by a recently estab-
lished interministerial self-help committee.
4.08      The project would finance construction, equipment, 7-1/2 man-years
of specialist services and two man-years of fellowships for the expansion
and diversification of the program at the existing Ministry of Social Welfare
National Training Center. In addition, funds would be available under the
project for equipment and building materials required for experimental self-
help projects to be undertaken as part of the trainees' field assignments.
To ensure coordination of the specialists required, the Government would
retain the services of a consulting firm experienced in rural operations in
Sierra Leone. The project would be carried out in four phases: survey and
analysis of skill requirements, program development, pilot project experimenta-
tion, and evaluation and refinement of program content. The training format
to be developed will need to be compatible with the guidelines of the inter-
ministerial committee (para. 4.07) for the allocation and administration of
funds to be expended on self-help programs. The Government provided assurances



- 12 -
that the self-help guidelines will be finalized and furnished to IDA for its
review by the time the specialists required for the project item begin work.
A condition of disbursement on construction at the training center would be
agreement between the Government and IDA at the end of the first phase of this
project component that the revised job description of the social development
wcrkers and the administrative framework in which they will work are comple-
mentary to the self-help guidelines.
Educational Plannin  and Management
4.09      The planning capability of both the Ministry of Education and the
University of Sierra Leonie require strengthening in order to translate develop-
ment priorities into concrete programs and to more readily identify projects
for rnational or even external financing (para. 3.07). The project would
assist the Ministry's planning unit by financing:
(i) minimum office equipment and accommodation for the unit
(since the majority of the staff is presently housed in a
dilapidated, former army barracks l1.cking equipment), plus
vehicles for field work; and
(ii) 4 man-years of fellowships for complementary training in
planning and statistics.
The planning unit's work program would include: annual programming of in-
vestment and recurrent expenditure; inventorying of school buildings; de-
velopment of data collection and analysis systems, evaluation of the external
efficiency of the diversified secondary curricula, e.g., through tracing of
graduates; and the development, with the IDA education project unit, of proto-
type school designs and building space, performance and cost standards, based
on experience with project schools. To ensure the effectiveness of the plan-
ning unit, the Government gave assurances during negotiations that the unit
wiLl establish a tracer system, acceptable to IDA, for the follow-up of school
leavers and graduates of the secondary and trade schools included in the first
and second projects, so as to permit evaluation of their programs. A
condition of disbursement on construction of accommodation for the planning
unit would be the budgetary provision by Government of the following planning
un:it posts:  deputy chief education officer for development, senior education
officer for planning, senior education officer for sites and buildings and
three planning officers for research, school mapping and finance/economics.
4.10      The planning and management capability of the University of Sierra
Leone also needs strengthening to enable it to plot its future development
against the economy's manpower and research requirements and the Government's
limited financial resources. Although the University was officially estab-
lished in 1967 to incorporate two autonomous colleges, the colleges have
continued to operate somewhat independently and, to a certain extent, somewhat
divorced from Sierra Leone's development needs. With the recent arrival of a
new, Vice Chancellor and strengthening of the University's control of its



- 13 -
colleges, the University now has the leadership to begin work on securing
government commitment to a higher education development policy, to design a
development plan on this basis and to devise a management system suitable for
a tnitary universitv.  This plan would ident-ify areas for savings (or improving
use of existing human and material resources in view of high operating costs)
and for ftiture external and domes;-ic investment in the University in relation
with manpower reouirements for lower levels of the education system and for
the economy at large.  The project would provide three man-years of specialist
services in financial administration and in planning to assist the university
administration in preparing its development plan. Investment projects identi-
fied in the universitv development plan and by the Ministry of Education
planning unit wc%ild be considered for inclusion in a third project, in which
case thn  proposed project would finance professional fees for their prepara-
tion (para. 5.02).
Institute of Education
4.11      The responsibilities of the Institute of Education include curricula
development, in-service teacher training, materials support and research
(para. 3.07). The Institute has already done a great deal of work in the first
two areas, supported by curriculum specialists financed under the first pro-
ject. However, due to lack of personnel, equipment and space, it has had
difficulty fulfilling all of its objectives. In particular, the Institute
has been hampered in its efforts to upgrade primary teachers in the provinces
due to lack of permanent facilities outside Freetown. The project would there-
iore finance three broad categories of assistance to support the Institute's
d-.-s,gnated responsibilities:  construction and equipping of six buildings --
oi:E tu house the Institute in Freetoun plus five regional instructional re-
source k:enters at the existing primary teacher colleges; 11-1/2 man-years of
specialist services and 2 man-years of fellowships; and pilot studies to im-
prove elementary education. The establishment of instructional resource
centers (IRCs), consisting of vorkrooms and demonstration areas, at the five
primarn tracher colleges would allow the Institute to more fully extend its
services to practicing teachers.  The teacher colleges are well distributed
around the country and would provide the Institute's training coordinator at
each of the IRCs with personnel and logistical support. The functions of
these centers would include in-service teacher training programs plus demon-
straLioni of instructional support materials and audiovisual aids.
4.12      Regarding specialist services, secondary school curriculum special-
ists furnded under thwe first project would receive continued support for a
brief period to allow them to complete curricu'la revision.  In addition, the
project would provide for:  (a) a coordinator of curriculum development; (b)
a speclalist in prim-ary teacher college curriculum development, who would al-
so advise on the trainini, of primary teacher college staff at the University
of Sierra l.ecne; and tc) short-term specialist services to help formulate a
Ministry of Education policy on production and distribution of books and
mater.1 s an,- exoansion of school broadcasting.



- 14 -
4.13      The Education Review generated a number of proposals for broadening
elementary education, such as the shorter primary program and the community
education centers (para. 3.02).  however, systemaLic research and experimenta-
tion is required to develop these ideas and test their feasibility before they
can be introduced on a large scale. The project would therefore finance,
within the Institute of Education, pilot studies related to improving or ex-
tending elementary education, such as: experiments with different teacher-
pupil ratios and space utilization factors and with use of radio and published
support materials and their subsequent evaluation; the analysis of educational
needs as perceived by rural communities and the conditions for the mobilization
of community support; the definition of the profile of the instructors for
community education centers and the testing of primary teachers versus exten-
sion specialists for such roles; and alternative modes of financial participa-
tion. by the communities. The studies would also serve to identify projects
for future domestic or external financing, some of which could be considered
for inclusion in a third project. In this case, professional fees for their
preparation would be included in the proposed project (para. 5.02). Under the
direction of the Institute, the studies would be conducted largely by local
educationists.  Contracts, totalling up to US$185,000, would cover salaries,
o*perating expenses, equipment and, where self-help construction is included in
the experimentation, building materials. The Government gave assurances that
it will furnish IDA for its approval the contracts and work programs of the
specialists carrying out the contracts.  The project implementation unit
(para. 5.01) would be responsible for advising the Institute on the feasibility
of undertaking self-help works, based on the research findings and the avail-
ability of local labor, and would assist in supervising the self-help works it
approved.
Institute of Public Administration and Management (IPAM)
4.14      There are roughly 2,500-3,500 manager-administrators in the civil
service, parastatal corporations and industry, many of whom require training
io upgrade their skills and prepare for career advancement (paras. 2.05, 2.11).
The Government maintains a small Civil Service Training College; but with
expansion of the College's activities to include clerical training, its staff
ai,d facilities have been stretched and its effectiveness in management train-
ing has been diluted. The Government and private firms send potential managers
a"broad for management study, but representatives in both sectors state that
the training provided is expensive and often poorly adapted to Sierra Leone's
economic, institutional and huiman enviroment.
4.15      The project would therefore finance construction, equipment, 12
ma,n-years of specialist services and 6 months of fellowships to establish an
Institute of Public Administration and Management (IPAM), as an institute of
the University of Sierra Leone, for the training of professional managers
at all levels in both the public and private sectors. Its capacity would be
about 100 places to provide training of varied duration to about 360 persons
per year. Training would consist of general courses designed to meet well de-
f:Lned standing needs, as in public administration, and special courses devel-
oped for the staffs of particular government agencies, industries or private



- 15 -
firms. Small industry and entrepreneurial activity would be assisted where
possible through training programs mounted in collaboration with private and
public sector agencies. Spokesmen from both the public and private sectors
have agreed that establishment of IPAM as a University Institute, in a
statutory framework similar to that of the Institute of Education, will best
allow IPAM to cater for both sectors. During negotiations the Government
confirmed its agreement that IPAM will be the principal center for training
civil servants in management skills, replacing the existing Civil Service
Training College. A condition of disbursement on construction of the IPAM
facility would be the formalization of statutory and budgetary arrangements,
acceptable to IDA, for governance of the Institute.
C.   Project Cost
4.16      The total cost of the project is estimated at Le. 9.2 million, or
US$11.0 million equivalent, excluding taxes and customs duties. The detailed
breakdown of estimated project costs is given in Annex 7 and summarized on the
following page:



- 16 -
Leones 100/               us$ tooo
Local Fcreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
D. Seond,a,ry Sz'nools
a. Compplementary works for        137     191      328     164       229    393   5.0
first prD2ect sc-hools
o. S-coi-1 project schools         670   1,086   1,756      805    1,303  2,108  26.9
2. Technical ;eac.her training        236     460      696     283       552    835  10.6
3. Trade schools                      210     371      581     253       445    696   8.9
4. Ministry of Social Welfare         161     432      593     194       518    712   9.1
National Training Center
5. Educational planning and            90     224      314     108       267    375   4.8
management
6. Institute of Education
a. Freetown headquarters           209     527      736     251       632    883  1i.3
b. Instructional Resource          252     441      693     302       529    831  10.6
Centers
7. Institute of Public Adrnin-        150     412      562     180       494    674   8.6
istration and Management
8. Project administration             108     162      270     130       195    325   4.2
Subtotal                        2,223   4,306   6,529   2,670    5,164  7,834 100.0
Physical contingencies            193      357     550      232      429    661   8.5
Price contingencies               734   1,342   2,076       881    1,610  2,491  31.8
Total                           3,150   6,005   9,155   3,783    7,203  0,986
1/ Rite of exchange:  Le. 1   US$1 .20



- 17 -
4.17      Construction would amount to 55 percent of the costs (taxes excluded)
net of contingencies, furniture and equipment, 16 percent; professional ser-
vices, 8 percent; technical assistance and fellowships, 17 percent; and pro-
ject administration, 4 percent. A breakdown by project institution is given
in Annex 7. Construction costs have been estimated on the basis of contracts
for civil works similar to those i.a the project, including first project
contracts adjusted for price escalation. Agreed space standards for facilities
would be within the range of other comparable facilities financed by IDA. The
estimated average unit cost of school building construction per square meter of
gross area is US$224, as of May 1975. This unit cost is more than double the
1970 estimate of US$103 per square meter for school building construction under
the first project.
4.18      Contingencies:  The contingency allowance included in the project
costs consists of (a) unforeseen physical factors, 10 percent of estimated
costs of civil works, professional services, furniture and equipment and
5 percent of the estimated costs of technical assistance, fellowships and
project administration; and (b) local and foreign price escalation varying
from 16 percent to 4 percent p.a. for the different cost categories. All
contingencies amount to 28 percent of the total estimated project costs or
39 percent of the total cost before contingencies, as of May 1975 (Annex 8).
The estimated price escalation for the civil works and professional services
comprising the complementary works for first project schools has been included
within the base line costs since these expenditures will be incurred prior to
Credit signing.
4.19      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component would
be approximately US$7.25 million equivalent, representing 66 percent of the
total project costs of US$11.0 million, net of taxes. This has been esti-
mated as follows:  (i) civil works, 58 percent; (ii) furniture, 48 - 95 per-
cent depending on the outcome of international bidding; (iii) equipment, 95
percent; (iv) professional services, 60 percent; (v) technical assistance and
fellowships, 82 percent, and (vi) project administration, 57 percent. Local
currency expenditures are estimated at about US$3.8 million (Le. 3.2 million),
or 34 percent of the total project costs.
4.20      Project Recurrent Costs.  Using constant 1973 prices for both
project recurrent costs and the government current budget, the recurrent
expenditures of project institutions, or marginal cost of increased capacity
in the case of project components consisting of additions to existing insti-
tutions, falling within the Ministry of Education's budget (which includes
University expenditure) would be Le. 550,000 in 1980, the first year when
these institutions would become fully operational. This would constitute
2.5 percent of the Ministry of Education budget in that year, assuming growth
of recurrent education expenditure is held at 4.5 percent p.a. as targeted
by the National Development Plan. The operations of the National Training
Center would constitute about 4 percent of the Ministry of Social Welfare's
current budget in 1980. The Government should not have difficulty financing
this expenditure, provided that it adopts the measures required to keep under
control the growth of education expenditures (para. 3.09).



- 18 -
4.21      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  The Government gave assurances
during negotiations that:
(i)  all specialists financed under the project and counterparts
to be timely assigned to these specialists will be acceptable
to IDA; and
(ii)  the personnel trained on fellowships will be required to serve
a minimum of two years in the positions for which they are
trained.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Administration.  The project unit established under Credit 170-SL,
responsible to the Minister of Finance, would administer the proposed second
project. The project unit consists of a full-time project director, architect,
accountant, clerks of works and support staff. The project costs include
staffing, equipment and office rental for the unit. The unit would be advised
by a committee with representatives of appropriate ministries and agencies.
More specific responsibility for the preparation of the specifications, terms
of reference and supervision of the performance of project-financed specialists
would be given to the normal line supervision within the ministry concerned
for each project component. During negotiations the Government confirmed the
formal appointment of the project director and designated the officials within
the appropriate ministries who will be responsible for the individual project
components. It also gave assurances that, within three months of Credit
signing, it will complete the selection and appointment of the project architect
and accountant.
5.02      Professional Services.  Architectural and engineering consulting
services for all project institutions except the self-help works (paras. 4.08,
4.13), would be provided by a joint venture established between the architects
employed for the first project and a local engineering/quantity surveying firm.
This arrangement, the participating firms and the contract negotiated by the
Government with the joint venture are all acceptable to IDA, and the selection
process was carried out in consultation with IDA. These consultants have
already begun work on preliminary drawings for the project institutions.
Since there are no funds available from the first project to finance these
consultants, retroactive financing of the services of the joint venture of
consultants, as from December 1, 1974, and up to a maximum of US$30,000, is
recommended. The responsibility for the design and supervision of the self-
help works not provided for under the consultants' contract would be given to
the project architect for the works under the Institute of Education pilot
studies fund, and to the consulting firm providing specialists for the
Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center for the works undertaken
as part of the Center's training program.  The project would also finance
professional fees for the preparation, subject to IDA's agreement, of com-
ponents of an eventual third education project, on the basis of investment



- 19 -
projects identified by the Ministry of Education planning unit, the University
development plan and the Institute of Education pilot studies (paras. 4.10,
4.13).
5.03     Sites.  All sites have been tentatively identified.  The Government
confirmed during negotiations the availability of the sites identified and
'will complete all necessary legal measures for acquiring those which are not
already government property before the start of construction.
5.04     Procurement.  Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines,
except for self-help works (paras. 4.08, 4.13), for which the project would
finance building materials estimated to cost US$60,000. Contractors would
be prequalified. The complementary works for first project schools would be
carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in the first project. Equipment and furniture would also be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding and in accordance with IDA
guidelines. To the extent practicable, equipment would be grouped in lots
of at least US$40,000. Local manufacturers of furniture, equipment and teach-
ing materials would be given a preferential margin of up to 15 percent of the
C.I.F. costs of competing imports, or the currently applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. The self-help building materials and numerous small items
of furniture, equipment or teaching materials which cannot be satisfactorily
grouped into lots, would be purchased locally on the basis of quotations
following local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The total amount of
of such purchases would not exceed US$230,000.
5.05     Disbursements. The proposed credit of US$7.25 million equivalent
would finance 66 percent of the total project costs of US$11.0 million net
of taxes, corresponding to the project's estimated foreign exchange component.
In the event local manufacturers win all furniture contracts, a maximum of
US$0.2 million would represent local cost financing in this category. Disburse-
ments from the credit would cover: (i) 60 percent of the cost of civil works;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 60 percent of
total expenditures for imported but locally procured items and 100 percent of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture, equipment and materials;
and (iii) 60 percent of total expenditures for professional services, technical
assistance, fellowships, and project administration. Expenditures for civil works
and professional services comprising the complementary works for first project
schools would be retroactively financed, up to a maximum of US$205,000 for civil
works and US$31,000 for professional services. Professional services for second
project preparation would also be retroactively financed, up to a maximum of
US$30,000 (para. 5.02). Annexes 9-11 show the proposed financing plan and
disbursement schedules. Construction of the second project institutions is
expected to be completed within about four years after signiing of the Credit
Agreement and the entire implementation of the project would be completed in
approximately 4-1/2 years. A schedule of implementation is provided in
Annex 12.
5.06     Any undisbursed balance of the credit at the time of completion of
the project would be allocated for goods and services related to the objec-
tives of the project or to the preparation of a third education project,
subject to the agreement of IDA.



- 20 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the
following main points:
(i) Timely request for technical assistance (para. 4.04); assignment
of counterparts (para. 4.21); appointment of the project architect
and accountant (para. 5.01); and acquisition of sites for con-
struction (para. 5.03).
(ii) Measures to ensure (a) an appropriate supply of secondary teachers
(para. 4.05); (b) management of the production units at the trade
schools (para. 4.06); (c) follow-up of school leavers and graduates
of the secondary and trade schools included in the first and
second projects (para. 4.09); and (d) retention for at least two
years of staff trained through fellowships (para. 4.21).
(iii) Consultation with or approval of IDA on (a) its staff housing policy
(para. 4.03); (b) the operations of the production units at the
trade schools (para. 4.06); (c) the guidelines for administration
of self-help (para. 4.08); (d) the contracts financed from the
Institute of Education pilot studies and the work programs of the
specialists carrying out the contracts (para. 4.13); and (e) the
findings and recommendations of the Ministry of Education planning
unit, the University development plan and the Institute of Education
pilot studies, to reach agreement on which investment projects will
be prepared for consideration under an eventual third project
(para. 5.02).
6.02      A condition of disbursement of the Credit funds related to construc-
tion of accommodation for:
(i) the Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center,
would be agreement between the Government and IDA at
the end of the first phase of this project component that
the revised job description of the social development
workers and the administrative framework in which they
will work are complementary to the self-help guidelines
(para. 4.08);
(ii) the planning unit, would be the budgetary provision by
Government of the following planning posts: deputy
chief education officer for development, senior education
officer for planning, senior education officer for sites
and buildings and three planning officers for research,
school mapping and finance/economics (para. 4.09); and



- 21 -
(iii)  the Institute of Public Administration and Management,
would be the formalization of regulatory and budgetary
arrangements acceptable to IDA for governance of IPAM
(para. 4.15).
6.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit
of US$7.25 million equivalent.






APPENDIX I
Page 1
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 170-SL)
ATTAINMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The first IDA education project in Sierra Leone (Cr. 170-SL,
signed in June 1970) was directed largely toward improving and diversifying
education at the secondary level. The project included specialist services
for secondary school curriculum revision plus physical extensions at 11
general secondary schools, 1 technical institute, 3 trade schools, and a
primary teachers' college. IDA financing of US$3 million was complemented
by UNDP/ILO (technical assistance for vocational training), Canada (equip-
ment for project schools) and Great Britain (technical assistance for curri-
culum revision and educational planning).
2.        The project, expected to be completed by June 1975, has made good
progress in achieving its educational objectives. Broadened and more rele-
vant curricula in English, science and social studies have been instituted
in most project schools and the project is having a spill-over effect in
some nonproject schools which are now introducing more practical subjects.
In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Government has also:
(i) established a secondary school inspectorate, currently staffed
by 8 inspectors;
(ii) established a Ministry of Education planning unit, with a
staff of 5;
(iii) prepared an education sector plan as part of the National
Development Plan 1974/75-1978/79;
(iv) appointed an official to be responsible for regular inspection
and maintenance of school buildings;
(v) appointed a Principal Education Officer for Technical Education;
and
(vi) increased staff and facility utilization through:
-    the consolidation of 9 primary teacher colleges into 5
colleges; and
-    an increase in the primary pupil-teacher ratio from 29:1
in 1968/69 to 32:1 in 1972/73.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
As stipulated in the Credit Agreement, the Ministry of Education appointed
an agricultural education officer in 1972, who subsequently left the Ministry.
The Ministry is still in the process of recruiting a new officer.
3.        Physical implementation of the project has also been generally
satisfactory. Construction at 12 of the 16 project institutions has been
completed, and construction at the remaining 4 schools should be completed by
June 1975. Most furniture and equipment has been delivered. The project
closing date has been extended by 18 months, to December 31, 1975, due
largely to financial and material delivery problems of one contractor, and
to delays in shipment of the equipment financed by Canadian bilateral assist-
ance.
4.        There remain two relatively minor issues related to the first proj-
ect for which the second education project seeks to provide remedies:
(i) Additional works: A large proportion of the project was
earmarked for rehabilitation of existing dilapidated
school buildings, the cost of which could only be roughly
estimated at the time of appraisal. Moreover, buildings
deteriorated further between appraisal and the start of
construction, thereby increasing the works to be under-
taken. Since these complementary works were essential
to completing renovations and would only increase later
construction costs if delayed, the contractors under
the ongoing first project were asked to undertake them.
As a result of additional works, civil works expenditure
is likely to exceed the original amount allocated under
the project. In addition, the contingencies available
to finance this increase were reduced when the Canadian
equipment allocation (para. 1) turned out to be less
than required, and IDA project funds were needed to
meet equipment packaging and shipping costs. Since the
secondary education part of the first project will be
continued in the second, the additional cost of these
works, not met under the current funding, is proposed for
financing under the second project.
(ii) Training of technical secondary teachers: The Credit
Agreement stipulated that the Government would recruit
specialists through LTNDP to assist in the development
of the technical institutes and trade schools and establish
a technical teacher training program. Because the ILO
team recruited to carry out these tasks limited itself
to the training of vocational instructors, technical
teacher training has not been established. The second
project would therefore provide for this training.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
5.        Once all project institutions are completed and in full use,
a completion mission will assess in greater detail the attainment of the
first project's objectives.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
I.   THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1.        Introduction.  The education system of Sierra Leone is patterned
to a large extent after that of the United Kingdom. Before independence,
it was limited by its concentration on the capital city and by the non-
scientific and nontechnological character of the local job market. With the
coming of independence, these limited educational objectives were broadened;
the system was seen as a means to promote economic development through the
extension of educational opportunities to the various ethnic groups through-
out the country and through the preparation of Sierra Leoneans for a more
varied job market. However, since the basic characteristics of the system
have persisted largely unchanged, public and student attitudes and expecta-
tions remain under the influence of the white collar mystique.
2.        The structure of the general education system consists of (i) a
seven-year primary program normally beginning at the age of five, followed
by (ii) a five- or seven-year secondary course of study, and (iii) one- to
five-year post-secondary programs at the University of Sierra Leone, teacher
colleges, and the Freetown Technical Institute. Pre-university general and
technical education fall under the Ministry of Education. Other ministries
have training programs for their own personnel.
3.        Primary school enrollments doubled during the decade of the 1960's,
166,000 children were enrolled in 1970/71, or a little over 34 percent of the
5-11 age-group. Due, however, to rapid growth of that age-group, the propor-
tion enrolled has remained constant since 1963/64. Girls constitute about
40 percent of primary enrollments, up from 35 percent in 1961/62. Enrollment
ratios are heavily skewed regionally, with 104 percent of the 5-11 age-group
enrolled in the Western Area and only 16.4 percent enrolled in the Northern
Province. 1/ Although dropout and repeater rates are not known, it is esti-
mated that only 52 percent of the boys entering primary school, and 37 percent
of the girls, complete the program. Moreover, many children apparently repeat
one or more years, as indicated by the slow growth of first-year enrollments
(4.8 percent p.a.) relative to the growth of total primary enrollments (7.7
percent) during the 1960;s. The fact that first-year enrollment growth
dropped to only about 1 percent p.a. during the second half of the decade
has serious negative implications for the Government's policy objective of
expanding the coverage of primary education.
4.        The primary pupil-teacher ratio is 32:1, one of the lowest in
Africa. Most teachers are Sierra Leonean, but 60 percent of the 5,500
1/   The enrollment figures include an unknown number of over-age students.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
primary teachers are untrained. The country's standards of training, however,
are higher than in many West African countries since primary teacher training
consists of a three-year program following the fifth year of secondary school.
Training is provided in five primary teacher colleges, four of which are
located in the provinces and provide pre-service training; the fifth, located
in Freetown, provides evening in-service training. Output from primary
teacher colleges totalled 206 in 1972.
5.        Secondary education enrollments (35,500 in 1971/72) have increased
sharply over the past decade at a rate of 16.4 percent per year. Girls con-
stitute about 30 percent of total enrollments. Roughly 11 percent of the
12-16 age group was enrolled in 1970/71 but, as in primary education, the
Western Area has the highest enrollment ratio (65.9 percent of the age group)
and the Northern Province the lowest (3.5 percent). In 1970/71, over 74
percent of secondary students were enrolled in fully assisted schools, (most
of which are denominational) and 15 percent in government schools.  More
than 59 percent of students entering secondary school complete 5 years of
study. However, the secondary system is heavily exam-oriented. Entrance into
the first year (Form I) is determined by the Selective Entrance Examination;
somewhat over half of primary school completers are accepted. The secondary
program is geared toward preparing students for the General Certificate of
Education (GCE) "O" (ordinary) level examinations or the School Certificate
Examinations at the end of the fifth year of secondary school. Only 14
percent of those taking the exams (or 8 percent of those who enter Form I)
pass in the requisite combination of subjects to qualify for university entry.
6.        The secondary student-teacher ratio was 21:1 in 1971/72.  Over 70
percent of the secondary teaching staff is Sierra Leonean; slightly over half
of these have undergone teacher training and another 15 percent hold a univer-
sity degree. Teacher training is provided in 4-5 year programs at the
University of Sierra Leone and in a 3-year program at one secondary teacher
training college. Output, including students returning from abroad, was 147
in 1972.
7.        In 1972/73, 1,350 students were enrolled at Fourah Bay and Njala,
the two constituent colleges of the University of Sierra Leone. Degree or
diploma courses are offered in the arts, economics, sciences, education and
agriculture. Student-teacher ratios are low: 7+:1 at Fourah Bay and 4+:1
at Njala. About 1,200 persons are studying abroad.
8.        Vocational and technical education is offered at four technical
institutes and trade schools. Although the available figures on enrollments
vary (from 830 to 1,160 for 1971/72), the nurmber enrolled is very low,
representing only about 2-3 percent of secondary enrollments. Dropout
appears to be high; it is estimated that nc more than two-thirds of the
full-time students complete the one to three-year programs.



APPENDIX II
Page 3
9.        A.ricultural education is provided in secondary schools, in a
limited number of vocational programs administered by the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources and at Njala University College, where two
and four-year programs in agriculture and agricultural education are offered.
In 1972/73, 428 students were enrolled in professional training at Njala,
while enrollments in the Ministry of Agriculture's farmer and vocational
training programs totalled only about 85.
10.       Out-of-school education is limited mainly to the Ministry of
Education's general literacy training, with about 2,000 adults and youths
participating in 1972/73. The program is limited by lack of funds, the
annual operating budget being US$3,600.
11.       Ministry of Social Welfare nonformal training activities.  The
community development department of the Ministry of Social Welfare (MSW)
provides nonformal instruction through its social welfare programs. The
department's headquarters staff are divided into six sections: family case
work, community development, voluntary organizations, youth work, probation,
and training. In addition, the MSW has regional staff based at the three
provincial capitals and the twelve district headquarters, with field staff
working at the chiefdom level. Although social welfare services emphasizing
the curative aspects of social work have been maintained and gradually ex-
panded since independence, priority is now being given to community develop-
ment, particularly to remedy malnutrition and undernutrition of children
and to advise pregnant and lactating women. The social development worker
(SDW) is the principal instrument for delivering maternal and child health
care services, with about one SDW per chiefdom. To reach local women, the
SDW meets with the village chief, who names a prominent women in the village
to be the "voluntary leader." Voluntary leaders from 20-40 villages are
given about two weeks of training on an ad hoc basis at the district level,
and become the SDW's liaison point in the village for providing information
on maternal and child health care, gardening, food preparation, nutrition,
etc.
12.       The MSW also works with other ministries and international and
voluntary agencies involved in the rural areas. At the site of its National
Training Center in Bo, the MSW is undertaking an experiment with UNDP/FAO
assistanqe to develop a high-protein weaning food for babies, using local
raw materials. In conjunction with Catholic Relief Services (CRS), the MSW
operates eight mobile clinics to provide maternal and child health care for
about 160 villages. Each team is composed of a SDW plus a nurse, driver
and interpreter provided by the Ministries of Health, Interior and CRS, res-
pectively. Each team visits a different village each day of the month, pro-
viding nutrition instruction, rudimentary medical supplies and some food
(under PL 480) to mothers and children under five. The mothers pay a small
fee to cover vehicle maintenance and depreciation. The MSW and CRS are
collaborating further in building centers for experimental community develop-
ment and youth work in about 70 pilot villages around the country. The MSW
has several male SDWs trained to assist villagers in building these centers,
as well as feeder roads, bridges, improved water supplies, schools, latrines



APPENDIX II
Page 4
and health centers. In addition to their labor, villagers finance about one-
third of the cost of the centers. About 18 MSW-CRS centers have been built
so far, each consisting of an open-air room, two small offices and a store-
room for equipment used by the imobile team.
13.       The National Training Center (NTC) at Bo is the main social develop-
ment training institution in the country. SDWs normally are given a three-
month basic training program in maternal and child health and nutrition,
sanitation, gardening, sewing, household budgeting, social work principles
and English. Most of the teaching staff are part-time, recruited from the
Ministries of Social Welfare, Health, Agriculture and Njala University
College. The NTC conducts a 6-month techinical training program on an ad
hoc basis for wal- SDWs to develop skills in constructing and supervising
construction of rural works projects. The MSW also runs short courses at
the NTC, including in-service training of personnel employed by the MSW,
other ministries and voluntary agencies who have been trained abroad. At the
district level, the MSW conducts voluntary leader training programs and youth
leadership training programs.
II. ISSUES IN SIERRA LEONE EDUCATION
14.       Sierra Leone has made an effort since independence to increase
access to education and improve its quality. The secondary curriculum is
being diversified; an Institute of Education has been established to improve
curriculum development and teacher education; and the Government has taken
charge of fee collection at the primary level to allocate funds more equitably
and efficiently. A long-term goal is free universal primary education.
Nevertheless, the system is still confronted with a number of major problems
such as low internal and external efficiency, growing financial constraints,
inadequate facilities and teaching staff and, until recently, lack of an
indigenously conceived education strategy adapted to national development
needs. With the recent publication of the reports of the National Develop-
ment Plan and the Education Review, most of these problems are now receiving
coordinated attention.
Reorienting Elementary Education
15.       Curricula at all levels of the Sierra Leonean education system are
heavily academic. The de facto goal of the primary school is to prepare
students for the secondary level. Not only does primary education reach
little more than one-third of the primary age population, but those it does
reach receive an education that is unrelated to the rural environment in
which most children live. English, the language of instruction, is alien
to that used in most homes and many children drop out before they have mas-
tered it. Because they believe that primary education alienates children
from the rural milieu, ethnic groups in some rural areas, particularly in
the North, show little enthusiasm for schooling. These groups have their
own culturally adapted forms of traditional education, such as cultural
societies and Koranic schools, but these institutions are unrelated to and
ignored by the formal education system.



APPENDIX II
Page 5
16.       Because the seven-year primary program is relatively long, the
provision of a full primary education to more children is a costly undertaking,
especially if a large number of children repeat one or more years. 1/ Despite
the long duration of primary education, children emerging from primary school
at age 11 or 12 are too young to become fully active members of the labor
force. There exist, however, virtually no informal programs to provide the
post-primary group with training oriented toward the rural environment. Even
if programs were available, they probably would not be very attractive to
rural youth whose attitudes have already been shaped in primary school toward
the urban environment and the importance of a secondary education as a
requisite to success. To rectify the biases of an academic-preparatory
primary education which leads only to disenchantment of the majority who
cannot continue, this level of the system needs to be viewed more as a
self-contained learning package (or basic education) which should aim at
providing people with the minimum knowledge, skills and attitudes needed
to prepare them for successful interaction with their environment as well as
.or future schooling. Because of the high illiteracy rate (70-85 percent of
the total population), this kind of basic education should be geared not only
to the primary age-group but also to adolescents and adults. This would
require a restructuring of formal education to provide multiple entry and
exit points to facilitate free movement between formal and non-formal pro-
grams and between traditional and official education. Furthermore, there
is a growing sentiment in Sierra Leone that local languages should be used
as the medium of instruction in the early grades. Curricula should also
include basic numeracy and provision of skills and knowledge that are
directly related to the immediate economic and cultural environment. Only
in this way will communities that are presently wary of the relevance of
education be willing to participate in educational efforts, and thereby
begin to diminish the strong regional disparities in the proportion of
children reached by the education system.
Relating Secondary and Post-Secondary Education to Manpower Requirements
17.       Requirements.  The following table projects requirements for the
years 1975-1979 for high, middle and skilled-level manpower, positions normal-
ly considered to require partial or completed secondary education or the
equivalent plus, in the case of middle- and high-level manpower, some form
of specialized training following secondary school. The table compares:
(1) estimated annual job openings by skill level (skilled worker
level and above) and by major field (sciences, nonsciences,
agriculture and teaching);
1/   The Ministry of Education recently endorsed the Education Review's
proposal to reduce the length of the primary program from 7 to 6
years during the Plan period, and to raise the primary school entry
age from 5 to 6 by 1976.



APPENDIX II
Page 6
(2) those job openings which will become available annually to
recent graduates or school leavers (a proportion of new Job
openings require on-the-job experience and will therefore
be filled by up-grading of persons already on the job);
(3) annual output from the corresponding levels of the education
system, adjusted for probable participation rates (proportion
of output likely to enter the labor force); and
(4) output of the education system (supply) as a proportion of jobs
available to new graduates (requirements).
The implications of these figures are discussed more fully in the sections
which follow on the subsectors of the education system.
18.       Secondary Education.  Secondary education is a pivotal point of
the education and training system since the first few years of secondary
school provide a foundation from which students may either branch off into
specialized training or enter the job market. As such, secondary schooling is
responsible for initial training of future skilled manpower (those who com-
plete 1-3 years of secondary school and then proceed to vocational/technical
education programs or on-the-job training), middle-level manpower (those
who complete 4-5 years of secondary education and then take some form of
post-secondary training on or off the job) and high-level manpower (those
who gain the GCE or School Certificate qualifying them to be admitted to the
University). Although the first IDA education project is directed toward
diversifying secondary curricula, these are still predominantly academic
and do not prepare students for skilled or even middle-level training pro-
grams or occupations. Current examination success and drop-out rates sug-
gest that it requires almost 51 student-years to produce one graduate. 1/
When translated into expenditure terms, the cost per graduate is Le. 4,230
(US$5,080).
19.       If the secondary school system were geared to preparing students for
a wide range of jobs or for specialized training, these figures would be less
alarming--and might indeed be less relevant than cost estimates for students
completing five or even three years of secondary education. But to the extent
that secondary schools are oriented more or less exclusively toward achieve-
ment on examinations and inability to pass denotes personal failure, the
figures are both relevant and disturbing. The large number of school leavers
with few marketable skills is shown in the table by output into the clerical
and service skilled labor market: more than four secondary leavers for every
1/   If, for example, 100 students entering Form I successfully passed the
exams five years later, 500 student-years would produce 100 graduates,
or 5 student-years per graduate. The high number of student-years per
graduate in Sierra Leone reflects the large number of repeaters and
dropouts and small number of successful exam candidates.



APPENDIX II
Page 17
TABL3s AVMAGE ANNUAL MANPOWR REQUIR3MENTS AND SUPPLY, 1975-1979i'
Annual Modern Sector         Jobs Available to New  2/        Annual Output from Education         Output/Jobs
Job Openings             Graduates/School Leavers-           System to Labor Market             Available
(1)                            (2)                                 (3)                         % (4)
Professionals/Upper    164             155                          118  University graduates           76
Level Managers
Sciences              57               54                          36                                  67
Nonsciences           95               90                          72                                  80
Agriculture           12               11                          10                                 91
Technicians/Middle     785              549                         229  Graduates of other post-        42
Level Managers                                                            secondary study or
equivalent
Sciences and
nonsciences         709             496                          193                                 39
Agriculture           76               53                          36                                  68
Skilled Labor        1,820            1,160                       3,450  Vocational and upper           297
secondary leavers
Clerical/Service    1,020             760                        3,200                                421
Industrial            800             400                          250                                 63
Teachers /             414             414                          550  Teacher training              133
graduates
Primary               220             220                          335                                152
Secondary             194              194                         ,215,                              111.
Total                3,183           2,278                        4 347                                191
Source:  IDA mission
These annual averages are taken from data for the five year period and therefore represent
only approximate annual requirements and supply. However, because the numbers are so small
for all but skilled labor, they have not been rounded. The tentative nature of manpower
projections is such that they can only serve as a broad guide to identify the most striking
imbalances between supply and demand.
j Except for teachers, an important source of skilled manpower supply is through upgrading/
promotion of already employed workers. This explains the difference between columns (1)
and (2).
3/  These teacher requirements assume that the Government will implement the measures proposed
in the Education Review and National Development Plan:
(i) to raise the primary entry age from five to six, at which time there will
be little or no intake into Grade 1, resulting in lower total primary
teacher requirements for the five-year period; and
(ii) to reduce the rate of secondary enrollment growth.
If these measures are not taken and enrollments instead grow according to present trends,
the output of teachers will meet only 68 and 90 percent of primary and secondary teacher
requirements respectively.



APPENDIX II
Page 8
job available. Yet, the 3,200 secondary school leavers who enter the job
market each year are poorly equipped for employment in these fields. Broad-
ening of secondary school curricula, addition of options like technical and
commercial subjects, basic accounting and management (either in day or evening
classes and during or following secondary studies) might facilitate entrance
of secondarv school leavers into gainful employment. The system is moving
toward the concept of a diversified common core curriculum for the first 3
years, followed by a variety of alternative specialized programs, all of
which would incorporate applied subjects adapted to employment needs.
Encouraging students to follow other than university preparatory courses of
study will require new means of evaluating students' performance to supple-
ment the "0" level examination as an index of achievement.
20.       Vocational and Technical E.ducation.  Of the projected 1,800
skilled labor job openings, p.a., it is estimated that about 800 will be for
industrial labor. Roughly half of the latter are likely to be filled from
upgrading of already employed semi-skilled workers. The other half could
theoretically be recruited from vocational education programs and rapidly
upgraded to skilled jobs. Projected outputs from vocational education would
meet only about 63 percent of available industrial skilled job openings.
However, there are indications that many vocational education graduates have
difficulty finding employment. This is due primarily to a shortcoming common
to many programs: instructors rely on book and blackboard both at vocational/
technical schools and in vocational streams of secondary schools; students
receive almost no practical training. There is little liaison between
employers and training institutions regarding curricula or job placement,
and few of the teaching staff have had experience in commerce or industry.
The quality of the students is also below average since vocational and tech-
nical education is viewed by students, parents and teachers as second-rate
education. The low priority accorded to technical education is reflected
in the government current budget: less than 2 percent of education expendi-
ture is allocated to technical training.
21.       Efforts are being made to expand and adapt training to employment
needs through the creation of an advisory committee composed of industry and
government representatives, through the expansion of training facilities
under the IDA project, and through the launching of a UNDP/ILO project to as-
sist development of vocational education. Future development of vocational/
technical education should include the following objectives:
(a)  an increase in the budgetary allocation for technical education;
(b) curriculum revision in general seconidary schools to introduce
students to concepts of technology, and the training of teachers
capable of introducing the new curriculum;
(c) an overhaul of the technician courses offered at the Freetown
Technical Institute;



APPENDIX II
Page 9
(d) greater industrial involvement in the general policies and
programs of technical/vocational education;
(e) provision of enough theoretical and practical training at the
trade schools to make graduates more readily employable and,
once on the job, more readily upgraded; and
(f) the consolidation of diploma courses in engineering being
introduced into the engineering school at the University.
The Government should also consider means of fostering expansion of in-service
training and general increase in opportunities for on-the-job upgrading of
personnel in order to meet requirements for skilled and middle-level manpower.
22.       University Education.  Assuming enrollments grow by 5 percent p.a.
over this decade with balanced growth between sciences and nonsciences, output
from the University together with students returning from foreign study is
expected to meet roughly 75 percent of high level manpower requirements.
However, these requirements, nearly 80 percent of which fall within public
administration, are based on trends observed over the past decade, a period
of rapid growth of government services. Because budgetary constraints will
probably curb growth of government employment, effective demand for high-
level manpower, particularly in the arts, is likely to be somewhat lower
than projected "requirements." University enrollment growth should therefore
be held below five percent p.a. to avoid a surplus of university graduates.
As shown in the table, the area of obvious greatest shortage is middle-level
manpower, especially in the arts, natural and social sciences, due to the
shortage of 2-3 year sub-degree programs either at or outside the University.
In the few cases where these do exist, students tend to use the programs to
gain access to university stucly. Graduates from the technical institute,
for example, generally do not become technicians but enter the university
engineering faculty instead, for which they seem better prepared in view of
the absence of any linkage between the institute and employment. Sub-degree
programs should therefor- be developed in areas where manpower shortages
can clearly be identified and only if programs can be closely linked with
employers' needs. However, any expansion of university facilities for these
programs will have to be coupled with careful scrutiny of university finance,
since the university already absorbs 30 percent of current education expen-
diture. Students tend to be more heavily subsidized at this level than at
lower levels of the education system in spite of the substantial private
benefits university graduates can anticipate in terms of lifetime earnings.
23.       Primary Teacher Training.  The surplus in the output of primary
teachers shown in the table is misleading since it results from government
plans to raise the primary entry age from 5 to 6 in 1976, at which time there
will be little or no intake into grade 1. This will in turn reduce total
primary enrollments and result in a negative requirement for teachers in that
year, thereby lowering total teacher requirements for the five-year period.
Requirements will be further depressed because the Ministry of Education



APPENDIX II
Page 10
plans to raise the primary pupil-teacher ratio from 32:1 to 40:1 by 1985.
The teacher "surplus" will lhelp to reduce the proportion of unqualified
teachers, who presently number 3,300 or 60 percent of the primary teaching
force. Furthermore, training college capacity will have to be expanded by
the end of the decade to meet the projected rapid growth of primary enroll-
ments in the 1980's.
24.       The goal of a 100 percent trained teaching force is attainable
during the 1980's if the primary pupil-teacher ratio is raised; if a more
dynamic in-service teacher training program is launched by the Institute of
Education as planned; if the preservice course is reduced in length from
3 years to 2 years in college followed by a year of supervised employment
in teaching (after which the diploma would be awarded); and if modest expan-
sion in teacher training facilities is undertaken. To improve the quality of
the training program, it is also necessary to review the common practice of
recruiting as primary teacher educators persons who have never taught in
a primary school. A special recruitment policy should be adopted without
delay to seek serving primary teachers and principals as candidates for the
University courses which prepare such educators.
25.       Secondary Teacher Tra 4inin.  The projected surplus in secondary
teacher output is due to Government policy to substantially decrease the
rate of secondary enrollment growth in order to free funds for expanding
primary and vocational education and for improving the quality of secondary
education. The Plan projects a drop in annual secondary enrollment growth
from 11 to 4.7 percent per year; the projections in the tablp on page 7 re-
flect a slightly higher growth rate of 5.5 percent p.a. Assuming secondary
enrollment growth is held at this rate (an admittedly heroic assumption,
given social pressures in most African countries to expand secondary education),
the resulting surplus teacher supply can be used to lower the proportion of
expatriate teachers, who make up 30 percent of all secondary teachers.
Secondary teacher college enrollments should, however, be stabilized at only
slightly higher than their present level to prevent oversupply in the 1980's,
and output should be attuned to the disciplines where shortages exist,
namely sciences, mathematics and other technical subjects. Finally, the
distribution of output between different secondary teacher training programs
should be more closely coordinated with the level of training required. At
present, the three-year Higher Teacher Certificate program at the secondary
teacher college is intended to produce teachers for lower secondary school,
while the four- or five-year university teacher education programs produce
teachers for the upper secondary grades. Although only 25-30 percent of all
secondary students are enrolled in the upper grades, over half the production
of secondary teachers will be from university programs. The Government may
therefore wish to revise the projected distribution of enrollments between
the teachers college and the university to increase output of lower secondary
teachers relative to that of those who are trained for teaching at upper
grades.



APPENDIX II
Page 11
26.       Agricultural Education  To date, university-level agricultural
education has received more serious attention in Sierra Leone than
intermediate-level training (for the extension services) or farmer training.
At the farmer training level, three rural training institutes or centers have
been established by the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources to pro-
vide a low-cost post-primary vocational program in agriculture, building
trades and home economics. Enrollments are estimated to total only about 85
persons. While the training program has succeeded in imparting basic agricul-
tural skills, the unrewarding nature of village farming has not encouraged
students return to their villages to take up agricultural production. Future
training of young farmers should be for shorter periods of time, and organized
in closer contact with their village farming situation. The centers could
also be used for agricultural extension training offering non-credit short
courses (a few days) in cooperation with other agricultural institutions.
Likewise, these locations could be used more intensively for in-service
training of all rural development field workers (agriculture, health, social
welfare, cooperatives, etc.).
27.       Agricultural science is now offered in many secondary schools,
but it has been primarily aimed at affording the student an opportunity to
pass the "0" level examination rather than necessarily preparing him for a
vocation in agricultural production or related business. Attempts are now
being made to give the agricultural programs a more practical and compre-
hensive orientation.
28.       Training of high- and middle-level agricultural manpower is
provided at Njala University College in its certificate and degree programs.
The output of high-level agricultural manpower falls only slightly short of
requirements for the period, despite the apparent need for an increase in
trained manpower given the stage of agricultural development. This is
explained largely by the limited employment opportunities in the Ministry
of Agriculture, due either to budget constraints or to training which is
ill-adapted to the Ministry's needs. A 1971 survey showed that the Ministry
of Agriculture employed only 20 percent of the Sierra Leonean graduates of
the agriculture college (Njala University College); nearly three-quarters
of the graduates were working as teachers of agriculture. Degree holders
have reported having the greatest difficulty of all graduates finding jobs
related to their field of study, partly because they aspire to fairly high-
level administrative or research posts. Although the 1975-79 projections
take account of the rapidly increasing demand for agriculturists as a result
of anticipated higher levels of investment, agriculture will still be able
to absorb probably no more than about ten agricultural degree holders per
year. The shortage, in both numbers and quality, of middle-level agricul-
tural manpower, i.e., persons trained in extension work, is likely to be a
constraint to rural development efforts. Not only is closer cooperation
required between the Ministry of Agriculture and the agriculture college to
ensure that the certificate program is adapted to extension needs, but stu-
dents must also be given more exposure to business techniques if they are
also to become, or understand the needs of, agricultural entrepreneurs.



APPENDIX III
Page 1
EDUCATION FINANCE AND EXPENDITURE
1.        Education Finance.  Financing of the Sierra Leone education system
is shared primarily by the Central Government, parents and the private sector.
The actual share of each is difficult to calculate due to the relatively
large number of denominational schools, the sharing of fee collection between
the Central Government and local employing authorities or schools, and the
unknown amounts spent by parents for books, uniforms and other school expenses.
2.        Fees are charged at all levels of the education system.  In primary
education, annual tuition is Le. 1 for classes 1 and 2, Le. 1.5 for classes
3 to 6 and Le. 2 for class 7. Since the beginning of the school-year 1973/74,
primary fees have been turned over to the Central Government, which in turn
allocates Le. 4 per student to all primary schools to cover operating, main-
tenance and equipment costs. For secondary education, the annual tuition
fee is Le. 21 per student. In government schools the fee is collected by
the Central Government. In fully or partially assisted and unassisted
schools, where 85 percent of all secondary students are enrolled, fees are
collected by the schools or local employing authorities. Since the salary
grant by the Central Government to nongovernment schools covers only 95 per-
cent of teacher salaries, approximately 35 percent of nongovernment school
fees are used to supplement salaries. Further, nongovernment schools charge
additional fees for stationery, books, etc. Boarding charges, usually paid
by parents, average Le. 70 per student year. Fees are also charged for
higher education, but these are frequently covered by Central Government
scholarships. 1/ The Central Government provides an estimated 95 percent of
financing at this level; the remainder comes from independent sources such
as rents, farm income (for Njala University College) and grants or donations.
3.        In 1972/73, fees and private contributions accounted for at least
12 percent of total recurrent educational finance. As a proportion of total
expenditure by level of education, the private sector contribution was
highest for secondary education, accounting for roughly 30 percent of total
secondary education financing, followed by primary education with 6 percent
of total primary education expenditure. The share of private financing is
undoubtedly understated at these two levels since only fees (not books and
uniforms) have been included in calculating the private contribution.
1/   In 1972/73, scholarship grants to stude'nts at the University of Sierra
Leone and teacher colleges totalled Le. 1.14 million, averaging Le. 416
per student. In 1973/74, teacher college scholarships were to be in-
creased to Le. 510 for Milton Margai Teacher College students and Le.
398 for students at primary teacher colleges.



APPENDIX III
Page 2
4.        Current Education Expenditure.  Central Government current expendi-
ture on education has grown rapidly over the past decade, with an average
rate of increase of 11.6 percent per annum (in current prices), and its share
in total current expenditure has risen from 18 to 23 percent. Part of the
rapid growth in education expenditure is attributable to a 10-15 percent
increase in teachers' salaries wlbich took effect in 1971/72. Current educa-
tion expenditure accounted for 2.6 percent of GNP in 1972/73, up from 2.2
percent in 1962/63.
5.        As shown in lable 1 to Appendix II, Central Government current
expenditure on education amounted to Le. 13.1 million in 1972-73, of which
approximately Le. 7.3 million (55.5 percent) was earmarked for teacher
salaries, Le. 1 million (8.1 percent) for administrative salaries and
Le. 4.8 million (36.4 percent) for other expenses. The relatively high
proportion of the last category is due partly to the inclusion of local and
overseas scholarships and boarding grants. Almost 30 percent of the 1972/73
education budget was devoted to higher education, about the same proportion
as allocated to primary education. Secondary education accounted for 25
percent of total expenditure, and the remaining 15 percent was shared by
administration, technical and teacher education and teaching aids. Technical
education received the smallest share of any level--only 1.8 percent of the
budget.
6.        A comparison of the average cost per student-year by level of
education, based on expenditure and enrollment estimates for 1972/73, shows
that the cost of one year of studies at the University of Sierra Leone is
roughly equivalent to 100 years of primary education, 25 years of secondary,
and 8 years of technical education. Average cost per student, particularly
at the primary and secondary levels, is generally lower in Sierra Leone than
in some other West African cotntries. Moreover, expenditure per student-
year in Sierra Leone has generally remained about constant in real terms
or even declined; between 1964 and 1972 the average annual growth per
student-year was 1.8 percent for primary, -3.8 percent for secondary, and
-2.7 percent for university education.



APPENDIX III
Page 3
AVERAGE COST PER STUDENT-YEAR: SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES
(in US$)
Sierra leone     Nigeria /1       Ivory Coast     Gabon
___________________  _ ___ (1_72/73)     (1970)           (1970)       (1972/73)
Primary                         26             29                68            68
Secondary                     100             232               545           460
Technical                     324             433             1,454         1,420
Teacher Training              985             226             1,261         2,020
University                  2,533           3,627             1,992         3,760
US$ =                   Le. 0.833          N 0.33           CFA 250       CFA 250
/1   Selected states.
Source: IBRD and Unesco.
7.        Development Expenditure.  Estimated development expenditure for
education totalled Le. 2.9 million in 1972/73, of which Le. 1.3 million was
financed from domestic (government) sources. This represents an increase
of roughly 50 percent since 1970/71 when development expenditure was only
Le. 791,000. Domestic investment was concentrated on fewer projects in
1972/73 than in previous years; the Government's share on the IDA Project
accounted for more than 80 percent of domestic expenditure in 1972/73 and
the remainder was allocated to capital investment in Njala University College
and secondarv school buildings. IDA has been virtually the only source of
foreign capital investment; UNDP, Great Britain and the United States have
provided personnel assistance, mainly as secondary teachers.
8.        Projected Expenditure:  Both the Education Review and the National
Development Plan have projected that growth of current education expenditure
will be held at 4.5 percent p.a. in real terms. The Plan's projections are
only for the Plan period 1974/75-1978/79; those of the Education Review run
through 1990 and therefore give a clearer picture of projected trends. Its
projectipns, shown in Table 2 to Appendix II, indicate a shift in the distri-
bution of current education expenditure in favor of the lower levels of the
education system, primarily at the expense of higher education.
9.        To remain under these budgetary ceilings, educational planners
will have to control both enrollment growth and costs per student. If, for
example, secondarv and university enrollments are allowed to grow at their
present rates instead of those used for projections in Table 2, education
expenditure could exceed 35 percent of the government current budget by 1990--
assuming of course that total current expenditure growth would average 4.5
percent a year in real terms through 1990. Moreover, holding the line on
unit costs will be difficult given teacher demands for higher salaries and



APPENDIX III
Page 4
Government's desire to increase the equipment provision per student. Yet
expenditures projected in Table 2 assume that unit costs will remain virtually
constant, or even decrease at the university level.
10.       A number of measures could help the Government to reduce pressures
on the education budget:
(i) Community education should have a strong self-help component.
Local communities should participate in construction and
maintenance of buildings and in supervising students and
programs.
(ii) Local industry should be encouraged, possibly through an
apprenticeship tax, to become more involved in vocational
training. Firms with training schemes could be subsidized
from the tax revenues.
(iii) Fee and scholarship policy, particularly at the university
level, should be re-examined to better align costs with
benefits of education. A modified student loan system for
university studies would not only reduce costs to the
Government but could be used to encourage students into
manpower-short fields of study.
(iv) Programs at all levels could be made more cost effective
through better utilization of teachers and facilities. At
the primary level, the pupil-teacher ratio should be raised;
in secondary education, improved planning of facilities would
allow small schools within a given radius to share laboratories,
workshops and other specialized facilities.
Improving the system's efficiency requires more than cost-saving measures;
one of the most important means of assuring the efficient use of resources
allocated to education will be by relating the output from the education
system to Sierra Leone's employment requirements. These measures to improve
both the internal and external efficiency of the education system will help
to rationalize the kinds of education provided to those already in, and
benefiting from, the system, and to free funds for use in extending learning
opportunities to a larger proportion of the population which has so far been
relatively untouched by its benefits.



CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION - REVISED  ESTIMATES 1972/73
(in Leones)
Average Cost
Level of                                 Teacher Salaries        Adinist-rativ,e           Other Expenses/I                 Total                                                 per Student-Year
Education                                                           Salaries                                                                    %7 by
Leones           %         Leones           %         Leones           %          Leones         %         Level           Enrollment            Leones
Administration                         -             -          171,590        30.0        399,620         70.0         571,210      100           4.4
Primary Education                   3,000,000       76.3        121,530         3.1        812,000/2       20.6       3,933,530      100          30.0            178,100                22
Secondary Education                 2,772,580       84.7        118,400         3.6        384,000/3       11.7       3,274,980      100          25.0             39,455               83
Teacher Training                      522,210       45.7         39,100         3.4        580,420         50.8       1,141,730      100            8.7             1,391               821
Technical Education                    146,280      60.8        45,760         19.0         48,600         20.2         240,640      100            1.8               890               270
Teaching Aids                             -                     27,600         76.1          8,650         23.9          36,250      100           0.3
Higher Education
of which                           834,210       21.4       541,210         13.8      2,527,820         64.8       3,903,240      100          29.8
- Fourah Bay College              (504,540)                (219,990)                 (1,070,110)                  (1,794,640)                                      925           1,940
- Njala University College        (329,670)                (238,220)                   (493,630)                  (1,061,520)                                      428           2,480
- University of Sierra Leone                                (83,000)                    (10,000)                     (93,000)
- Overseas Scholarships               -                        -                       (872,080)                   (872,080)                                     1,200             727
- Library Grant                                                                         (82,000)                    (82,000)
Total                               7,275,280       55.5    1,065,090           8.1      4,802,910         36.4    13,101,580         100          100.0
/1   Includes  scholarships (local and overseas) (2,012,540).
/2   Includes 80,000 grant to primary schools.
/3   Includes boarding grant (120,000).
Source:   Sierra Leone Government, Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 1973-74, and IDA mission.



APPENDIX III
Table2
DISTR:UTION OF ROJECTED CURRET EDUCATION
EXPENDITURE 1973/74-1990/91
(in thousands of Le, constant 1973/74 prices)
Expenditure        Proportion of Education Budget    Average Annual
Growth Rate
1973/74     1990/91          1973/74       1990/91           1973 - 1990
Administration          708       1,100             4.4          3.2                 2.6
Primary               4,830      12,152            30.0         35.4                 5.6
Community
Education               -         1,755              -           5.1
Secondary             4,025       7,1475           25.0         21.8                 3.7
Teacher Training      1,401       4,030             8.7         11.8                 6.4
Technical               300       1,090             1.8          3.2                 7.9
Teaching Aids            48         500             0.3          1.5                14.8
University            4,798       6,175            29.8         18.0                 1.5
- University of
Sierra Leone       (3,622)     (5,681)          (22.5)       (16.6)               (2.7)
- overseas
scholarships       (1,079)       (354)            (6.7)       (1.0)              (-6.8)
- library grant         (97)       (140)            (0.6)       (0.4)               (2.2)
Total             16,110       314,277           100.0       100.0                 4.5
Source:   I2raft Final Report, Sierra Leone Education Review, May 1974.



I_     L) 'AAAT.ATATJX116
BTw)TATAA                                                TAPT   AA        ATATAT           ATA=
T'AATATTA 'A  TTTATIA AJATATT (IT) pA                                  A    TAT  TAAATA-AAlA=                               (I 
(PTA  (AT) T~~~~~~~~~T(TT                      (AlA~~~~~I  1991=A                 90 ATATAATTAAATATT'AT
AT              AT               AT                         6 II IT       TA           TA                           A V            TA             AICTT
(AlT-TAT)  (TA-A)  (Al-A)        (69-1.        (l~~~~~~~I-A)  (TA-A)      (6TI-TI      T  A      l    (AAAA           (TA 6)         (AT-A)                                                                       TA
A5      9                AT           A             )             AT        AAA                VI0        ACT            TA                A          TA                               (A               AA'A A   'AT
It              T                 A           T            A               ,         A)TA                                                                   91                  Al             (A ITTAA
ICL              IT               9)            A              T           T             T                                                           T        I)                 11              IAITTAAAI
TIT             AT               '                            T           IA         AlT              IIT         A                              AIl           AlI              IT             TAAT1              _AT_TTOA  ''A
AlT     AT              TA~          ~       ~      ~~~       ~      ~    ~ A  '  TAIAl  A  TIT                                            T          IT                 A              Il                AAAAI        A
A1      9             A        A  IC             AZ         A TTA                                                                     1CS              I'A            IATT                             (
APT    'A               IT            TA            TA         (AT~~~9         TA                           A'e          (TA1   ITT                 TA            l   AAATIll                                AA-I''
AT   AT          TA            Al            TA            TA           TA                                                          TI       AITA              AITIAT           11(6                     TTIAIAA'Aa  U
TA      cATcA                                     AI Al           (            I             IA                                                     A  '1             A  T              1(                     T9AA'
A        I           T              I             A         AA             AII           A                                II       A~ IA                TI            AAAI                 ATTA61T  I
AT  I A  TT            AT AT        AT A                9A       6  T             (A                         9i T          AA                            III                             TIAA T'
(AT             TA               9CTTT                                    1             AA                                                         TA       IATATI-A                            AT            (TTA    AI  '
Al      TT               TA           TA            Al           IT            TA            OAT            AT             I               TA         l7-             611              AAAI6              'ATTAA                    TATTTTTATTATA
TAT  IT          TT            IT            Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  At    Al6           IT              T             A                T       10                 Ill             AA                         AAA            AAATA''ATAATAT
TA              TI               I            T           AlT             AT C        T                IT           T':AA l1                                                  ATTA             AAAT                 AT''AT'(TAT-TTAATT .AA'AA11-
* ' -  Al            AT            A            66          A Al        ~~~~ ~         ~~1 (6  ('IT      A'I            A               A          A1I'                             AlTTA   '                                  TTITTATTTATA'T
'Al             6I               TI                         IA           CTA           TA             AT            16             TATIA                                          ATT                                 ATT    A                 ''ATAA'TATAT
06  AT   AT   TA   TA     TI           TA             ('AT          AT             II            6 TA       '1 ('09          IT A'T(           TIlT                 ATATATTA   A                TAT AAI'AT)TT'AAT TI'ATTTAT~~~~~~~~~I'll_TZ I  1
TAT   OTT   TAT   TA   II   AT   166           (TAT             TI             TA             AA        ATOp              (TAT             ((TI                    'T'AAA'A              -T'AT''T'TTTATTTT'ATT'A'A~~~~~ITIZ -  _.e. ..   ..
ItA            TAT                '''        Al             AT           06             'A           WAT           Alt              9(1            AA          OI              T Il             TTAA                    TAT IA              AAAAATATAAT-TA
TAATTTTATA   IATATT  AT
TTTTTA  (AAS     TAAAT  A ATATTPTTA'
Al      IA               IA~~~~~~~~l  AT             AT          IA            6A(T                         'I             A               T        A0T               i  '              AA     AAqA  A   AATA                         TAAAAATATATA
IA  (TA        AT           A             IA           91             A            TAT           TO              IT             16        ATI               AOl              196                 T~6TATAA'A               TATATATAATA.AAT.T....
A   TA   ''   TI           TA            II           TA          ITT)             Al              A           YATI        119)              AL')             lIT)              'AAATATTAIT'6               AATATATAAA9TAAOTAAP'A l  'I  C "I  l111I  '
TA               A                          AT           TA            TA            TA,           AT              TA             A_I-A"                                        IT       AHATATAAIAA'0                  TTATTAATTTTAT=               AT
TI               A            A             A            A             A             OT            T               IA             TA        A T                  T             ITI=T   OA  '                                  A   TTTA66TTTT
11:11C  ET  6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I TTT'LA( AATTT
AT       A0                A           A                           TI           TAt          TA61         A                                 AT       lIT               1161             6()TTTT                                -TAAAATAATITTATA
I       I                AT          'AT          At             TI        AAT             69                                             6         AA                 AT               TATTTA'TAA    TATTAIT
TA      Al               AT           A             A            IT            TA            ('AT Az                                       T        (IT'              011              TlTATATA ZTATA)TA'-
A  TI         IT            0             4            IA           66             VA                                           I         (IT               AlT             6AAI                   TA'ATAA'TT           TATITTATATATTTTT'AAAIAAIAI
TA    AT                 IT           A           ATT            99~~~~I     ATAITC                       ATT            ATI              AT        TWI                 TTAA                                  AAT')TAATATA)TIA
(1          AT           T1            IA          IAT               '''l       A-                               '''         09E            AI'IT            TA                     ATATT                   AAAP   1T)T',   (I) -C
A A       A               TA            A             (A           IA            TI~          ~~~~ TCITV:  T                                A         Ar O AIT             N'OTTATAA'T)ATTAAT
TA  ' ' -         IA           A             Al            II           TA            I'll                                         AT~         ~~~       ~      ~~~~ TAI  ('     ATL6TOTT'T
IT   91   11   1   A)   IA)              T'TT                                         AT        AA9              AT'T             TAAI               TTIIAATAITA'IT       'TTTTAITTA'T'AATAAZ'''A'AATAAA~~~~~~~~I
I   TA        TA            T             T            AT            AT            ('TA         AT,              I              IT          T                 ('1           AAAA                       ATA'AT              AATTITA'A'ATATTATTT'ATT
A              AT)                ATAL          T T9                       (A         TAI              ('TI                                                   (A                                    I                  TTTI' VIATAATTTTA.TT'A
TI   TAT               TT            A             AT~         ~~      ~    ~~~           ~~~~~ TA  IT  A'AA  A                         ACA.011AAAA                                                                                             TTAATAp'
AT       II          A~~~~~~~~I                   tlI.TTT                                                                             A                                IT                    T'A9('
StA          A              T           A          AA               ('T11                                                  AI                                 ATATI(TATIATAATTTATTA
II   A           I            IA~          ~~ ~       ~~~~~~ ~~ tIA   ITT  I'          AElA                                       IT                                         'A9v                IA'' TTATA   TTTTT
TA     l9         A               TA           ll            TAT                                           ' OAl                                       AAIcc''laTAqTATAT(   T   'ATT
A   A   IT   IA   A   (9        TA            TAT                                            ''      AlT)              AlT             TAIl                 IIAAA'AATA'T            TTAAITTATATTA9AATTIT'AAAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
TA      A                AT           AT            AT            AT           AT          (TAT IC(A                     (TA             TAT        A-I                                ALIT                  TAAATATATATATT'AA'
TA)        AT              Al         bA               AT           II            TA~~~1      TAO);A .                                                 ATAI'                             TAI                      ATAI              ITAA    U19TAATTA
91       A               I             T              A           A 9IA aA9.TA                                                             Al          AAI'                            TATI                    TTTTA  19AAT    A  TAT'T
(TA   (A)   AT   AT'   IIA   lA   AIT   Al             'AT          TI)              lA         ATTA''            AAT             TAll                     ATTAA'T                'TTTATTTTAAATPT- ATT
ATAAAT P   TTTA
Vs,    IL           IC            4,             O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TATA                                                                                        TTATTATT   'TA   A
TAT  6)        AT         A A              'Al          AT           TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e   Al    e('A           TIt             ALI       A  )'m                'I          06I:TA)TlT'~                                TT   AITAT    l   )T
TAT      TA              TA~~~~~~~~~I  TI           'AT           AT            ATA           Al)           ('A             ATeTATT"                                   TTA              TT                         TTT            'l  AA 'ATTAT'  A
VT                 A               (1         AA             TT             I             T             lI             ' IATA                        TA        ATTT' 66                            E OT)AAA                               TTATTTATTATTA
TA       I               A            4               T           I             I           lA               A              TT             T         AlT'                                                                                 ..A....TOTAT   TATT     .TT'TATA'TA
TAT                      AT          ' ''            A            TA           AT              ITT           A              TI             T           A)T'I6A  T)l                    TA)TILA6TTTAAIA'AATTTTA 
AT       TI               TT           6)            II           AT~~~~C       AlV           'A             IT"IAT                        Al        TAICTI                              lI                      TA(T             TTTTTTATATTTAAU
TA               TA               TO            AT            A           AY"            (IA           IAOA)                         TIL(                        (                  A
AA)TT)A(AA  'AA1AATATT"(  AA'ATTA1T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   TIATIAT  AATATATTA    (((TA  AAAO'A'A'A'AA~~~                                                                                      ..    ......
TAT'TT  TAT ATTI-TTA    AI'ATAAAT             TIAATI      1'AI   T(T9    TTATATA   TTTITTIA             ATTTA)        (AITIA          (991           TTAATElT
ATITTTTAATT'TTAT                                    T        T   T'A         AA         TT'AAATA)II0ATAAT'd1T                                          A)TTATAATT
ATAATT'AAAATATTTAAT  ld  TIAITAT)    k(llA    AAAAAA  (TTAJA '((AAqAT     AITIAITA      TTAAAAAT(I         TOA            TA            A-1T(TIA
(ATATAATATA      ..........TATT                                0TfAT        ATAJT1A   6                               T  TTT          ATTAAAAAA                  TAATA
I  IATAAAT              A                                                               ATAA'A           ATAT
(TATTIETTA  TATAT-      TTTTAT






ANNEX 2
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF GDP AT FACTOR C06T
(1963/64 prices)
1963/64                   1970/71          Average annual
growth p.a.
Le.million  ;            Le. million   %    1963/64-1970/71
Commodity Producing
Sectors                  134.0  65.2             169.3      58.8          2.8
Agriculture               82.2  38.6              91.9     31.9           1.6
Mining                    36.6  17.2             45.8       15.9          3.3
Manufacturing             12.0    5.6            14.8        5.2          3.0
Utilities                  1.1   0.5              2.4       0.8          11.8
Construction              7.1   3.3             i4.4        5.0         10.7
Services                  57.3  26.4            91.6       31.8           6.9
Trade                    29.6  13.6             44.9       15.6          6.1
Transportation           14.8    6.8            28.5         9.9         9.8
Finances                  12.9   6.o            18.2         6.3          5.1
Government and
Social Services           18.4    8.4            27.0        9.4          5.6
GDP at factor cost       214.7  100.0           287.9      100.0          4.6
Source: IBRD economic mission.



ANNEX 3
J:IIKMG POPULITION BY M,JTOR INDUSTRY GROUP, 1964, 1974
-r.nunt ers in tbouasands)
1964               1974
number  percent   number  percent
Working population                                       923        100.0  1,079      100.0
Agriculture: forestry, hunting and fishing             702        76.1    792        73.4
Mining  and quarr37ing                                  53          5.7     46        4.7
Manufacturing                                           43          4.7     52        4.8
Construction                                            16         1.7       4       0.4
Electricity, water and sanitary services                 3         0.3      26       2.4
Commerce                                                58          6.3     81       7.5
Transport, storage and communications                   17         1.7      28       2.6
Public adiinistration and other services                31         3.4      50       4.6
Source: IBRD econoric mission.



HIGH AND MIDDLE, LEVEL MANPOW3R REQUREMENITS
BY MAJOR INDUSTRY GR)UP
1975-1979
Recruitment                 Manpower  Requirements
Occupipd            High and Middle          Replace-
Sector              Workforce               Level Jobs             ment
('000 manyears)                                Present               High      Middle
1974      1979         1974     1979    New    Stock       Total    Level      Level    Teachers
(1)       (2)          (3)      (4)     (5)      (6)        (7)       (8)       (9)        (10)
Agriculture            792       842          515       905    390       50        440       60          380       -
Mining                   46       414         285       250   -35        20          0        -           -        _
Manufacturing            52       61          440       570    130       35        165       50          115       -
Construction             26       33          875     1,110    235       75        310       30          280       -
Electricity, Water,
etc.                      4        4          220       220      0       15         15        5           10        -
Commerce                81        95         695        815    120       55        175       20         155        -
Transport and
Communications          28        33         840      1,020    180       70        250       50          200       -
Public Administra-      50        62      18,230    21,210  2,980   2,470        5,450      600        2,785     2,069
tion and Other
Services
Total         1,079    1,174       22,100    26,100  4,o00   2,790        6,805      815       3,925      2,069
Source% IDA mission



ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMEWTS BY LEVEL
1964/65 - 1990/91
Average Annual Rate of CGrowth (%)
Level                 1964/65-    1970/71         980/81       1990/91      1964-1970    1970-1980       1980-1990
Primary                 118,700       166,11o      208,800       417,600         5.8          2.3k            7.2
Community Education         -            -              600      136,500          -            -               _
Seconday               - 12,900        33,320        58,100       75,100        17.1           5.7            2.6
Technical                 n.a.            925        1,490         2,725         -            4.9             6.2
Teacher Training          n.a.          1,075         2,480        4,500         -            8.7             6.2
University
- University of                             2/
Sierra Leone              650        1,350-        1,930        2,470         9.6           4.6            2.5
- Foreign study          n.a.          1,16O2         670          420          -          -7.1            -4.8
1/  Actual enrollments.
2/  1972/73 enrollments.
3/  Projected enrollments.
4/ Low rate of growth is due to reducing length of primary program from 7 to 6 years during the period.
Source:   National Development Plan 197L/75-1978/79, August, 197h; Draft a'inal Report, Sierra Leone
Education Review, Nby 197L; and IDA mission.



ANITEX 6
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF
REQUIRaEMENTS FOR SPECIALIST SERVICES
AND FELLOWSHIPS
I. Specialists                                                                Manyears
A. Technical Teacher Trainin g
1.  Project manager and specialist in technical teacher training          3
2.  Specialist in woodwork and technical drawing                          3
3.  Specialist in metalwork and technical drawing                         3
4.  Specialist in commerce and economics                                  3
5.  Specialist in technical/vocational curriculum development             3
for secondary schools
B. Ministry of Social Welfare National Training Center
1.  Field anthropologist/sociologist                                      1-1/2
2.  Specialist in training methods/curriculum                             2-1/2
3.  Community development planner                                         2
4. Short-term specialist services                                         1-1/2
C. University of Sierra Leone lanning and Management
1.  University planner                                                    2
2. Specialist in university financial administration                      1
D. Institute of Education
1. Curriculum development specialists in:
a.  Curriculum coordination                                           3
b.  English                                                           2
c.  Social studies                                                    2
d.  Mathematics                                                       2
e.  Primary teacher training                                         2
2.  Specialist in educational books and materials/school                  1/2
broadcasting
E. Institute of Phablic Administration and Management
1.  Director and specialist in management education                       3
2.  Specialist in public administration                                   3
3.  Specialist in small industry management                               3
4.  Short-term specialist services                                        3
Total manyears of specialist serve  pro2osed for_  IA financing                 34
I/  Proposed for financing bv the U.K. Government (3rJIt sh Council).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
IL.  Fellowships                                                           Manyears
A. Technical Teacher Training
1.  Technical teacher education                                      2
2.  -woodwork teacher education                                      2
3.  M4etalwork teacher education                                     2
4. Office and business teacher education                             2
5.  Commerce and econromics teacher education                        2
B.  Ministry of Social Wlelfare National Training Center
Short-term study tours                                               2
C. Ministry of Education Planning Unit
Statistics and planning                                              4
D.  Institute of Education
Educational publishing                                               2
E. Institute of' Public Administration and Management
Short-term study tours                                               12
Total manyears of fellowships proposed for IDA financing                  18-1/2



SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SLUARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in Le '000)
Professional       Professional         Technical
Civil Works    Furniture    Equipment          Services           Services          Assistance          Project          Total
Construction    Third  Project    & Fellowships   Administration
Pre-aration
1.  Secondary Schools Diversification  2/                        1,583             110            204             187                                                                  2,084
A.  Complementary Works First Project Schools                 (285)                           -               (43)                                                                  (328)
B.  Second Project Schools                                 (1,298)            (110)        (204)             (144)                                                               (1,756)
2.  Technical Teacher Training                                     431              37           120               48                                    60                              696
3.  Trade Schools-/                                                400              39            98               44                                                                    581
4.  Ministry of Social Welfare                                     219               t0           49                24                                  291                              593
National Training Center
5.  Educational Planning and Management                             53               it           23                 6                90                131                              314
A. Ministry of Education Planning                              (53)            (11)          (23)               (6)              (40)               (28)                            (161)
B.  University Planning                                         -               -             -                 -                (50)              (103)                            (153)
6,  Institute of Education                                         735               67          196                73                60                298                            1,429
A.  Institute of Education Headquarters                       (231)             (38)         (84)              (25)              (60)              (298)                            (736)
B.  Instructional Resource Centers  2'504)                                     (29)         (112)             (48)                                                                  (693)
7.  Institute of Public Administration and Management              164               26           27                18                                  327                              562
8.  Project Administration                                          -                -                              -                                                     270            270
Total, net of Contingencies                            3,585              300          717               400               150              1,107              270           6,529
Contingencies (Unforeseen and price
escalation)                                               1,680              128          310                77                50                299                82           2,626
Grand Total (Le '000)                                  5,265              428        1,027               477               200              1,406               352          9,155
Grand Total (US$ '000) -/                              6,318              514        1,233               512               240              1,687               422         10,986
1/  Net of taxes.  Base line cost as on May 1, 1975.
2/ See Annex 7b for estimated costs by project school. 5'
3/ Le 1 - US$1.20.
Source: IDA Mission
May 1975



SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATIO0N PROJECT
LSTI_ATEA  COST P_R:.lFCT SCHrlO!,
J C AA; A 1D_ rRSDE iCiIOOtS AND INSTRUCTIONAI RESOLRCa CE_itRS  1
Professional    Profes.ional           Technical
Civil Works    Furnit-re    tauOpne            Servicas           Services         Assistance            ProJect          Total
Censt.s.tion   Third  P-oject    & Peliooshlpe          Administration
Press ration
Secondarv schools Diiversifictolon
A.  Cgrple_nt*y Works PErot ProJect Schools
1.  lops S. S.                                                 25                                               4                                                                     29
2   Tls. S. S.                                                 33                                                                                                                     38
3.  .ehodist  Girls R. s.                                      30                                               4                                                                     34
4.  Prince of Wle.  S. S.                                      84                                              13                                                                     97
5.  Jiini s8..                                                 90                                               14                                                                   104
6.  Anie walh S. S.                                            23                                               3                                                                     26
Subtot-l A                                          281                                              43                                                                    328
B. Second Prolaet Schools
I   RokI1 S. 5.                                               308              34             38                34414
2.  Schlenher S. s.                                             76              S             16                                                                                      1
3   MadLn  1.8                                                169              11             21                21                                                                    105
4.  S'es"f. 5. '.                                              160             10             26                20                                                                    2346
S   Yonntiba   S. S.                                           91               5             I1                                                                                      124
6.    ord Memoril S. s.                                       277              19            33                 31                                                                    360
7.  lsapnS.S                                                   43               2                                5                                                                      so
8   Jimlei s.                                                   70              3                                8                                                                      so
9.  T-In  5 . S.                                                64              3                                3 
10     Kolenten S .                                                                      3                                                                                              85
11   Wesley S. S.                                                                2              8                                                                                        8
12.  GCvt. 'ncLipal S. S.                                                       13             12
13.  Albert Acadeny                                                                             9                                                                                       2
14    asab.i S  S                                                                               6                                                                                        6
15.  Moyen.a S: S:                                                                              6                                                                                        6
16.  Uilhuan S. S.                                                                              4                                                                                       4
Subtotal B                                        1,298              110           204               144
Total, Secondary Schools DiverSific-tioe          1,583              11o           204               187                                                                  1,756
Trade School.                                                                                                                                                                                 2,084
A.   inn                                                           70                8           28                 a                                                                     1
B: Mes byrk                                                         301               287          45                34                                                                    407
C.  Rtene_s                                                          29                3           22                 3                                                                      57
Total, Trade Schools                                400               38            95               45                                                                     578
ISr,trsetlonnl R ssurce Centers
A   Fpreton                                                          64                5           21                 7
B: llsknt                                                            91                6           22                 10                                                                     97
C.  Part Loko                                                                          6           23                  9                                                                    114
0. Ia                                               8~      ~       ~ ~~~                  ~        ~~~~~~~~~4  6  22  9                                                  1214
E.  Bunubu                                                          180                6           25                 21                                                                    239
Total, lnstrootion-l R eource Centers                504              29           112                56                                                                    700
1/ Net of ta,  lens lne costs as on aM-y 1, 1975.
Source: IDA Mission
MHy 1975



SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
A.  Contingencies in %.                                                                      CONTTNC.ENly AUANCES
B. Contingencies' Amount
Technical
Professional Services           Assistance
Civil Works       Furniture        Equipment       2nd Project   3rd Project               and               Proiect                Total              Grand Total
Construction  Pre,pration          Fellowsbips        Administration
Loc,    For.    Loc.    For.   Loc.    For.    Loc.    For.  Loc.           For.      Loc.      For.       Loc.      For,        Loc.       For.
Local!Foreign Percentage %    42         58       52       48       5      95       40       60    40        60        t8        82         43        57
Total cost before
contingencies
Items 1B-8  1/              1,663   2,297       187    173       43     817      171      257    72       108       239    1,089         140       185      2,515      4,926            7,441
A a.Unforeseen factors                IO       10       10       10    10       10       10       10    10        10         5         5          5         5
b.Price escalation                 36       36       31       31    30       30       11       11    21        21        21        21          24        24
B.a.Unforeseen factors %             166      230       19      17      4       82       17      26      7        11        12        54          7         9        232        429              661
b.Price escalation   %            680      940       62       57    15      271       19       30    17        25        53       240          35       47         881      1,610           2,491
Total (a) and (b)               846   1,170        81       74    19      353       36       56    24         36        65       294         42        56      1,113      2,039           3,152
C. Total Cost
'tems IB-8                  2,509   3,467       268      247    62   1,170        207     313   9g        144       304    1,383          1i2       241     3,628       6,965          10,593
D.  Cost Item IA                     144      198       -       -      -        -        20      31    -          -         -         -          -         -         164        229              393
E.  Total Project Cost             2,653   3,665      268      247    62   1,170       227      344    96        144       304    1,383         182       241      3,792      7,194           10,986
1/ Excluding local taxes and duties. Item IA is not included in calculation of contingencies since expenditures will be incurred prior to Credit signing,  Estimated price
escalation on Item IA has therefore been included in the base line costs for the item.
N.B. US$1.00 -. Le. 1.20
May 1975
Source:  IDA Mission                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.



ANNEX 8b
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Price Contingency Assumptions
(in percent)
1975               1976             1977-79
Civil Works
Local                16                  14                12
Foreign              16                  14                12
Furniture
Local                12                  10                 8
Foreign              12                  10                 8
Equipment
Local                12                  10                 8
Foreign              12                  10                 8
Professional Services
Local                 8                   8                 6
Foreign              8                   8                 6
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships
Iocal                 8                   8                 6
Foreign               8                   8                 6
ect Administratio
local                 8                   6                 4
Foreign                8                  6                 L
April 1975
Source: IDA mission.



ANNEX 9
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(incl. contingencies)
*(us$'ooo)                         (IeU$.O
(Le.=US$1.20)
Cost net of taxes
Local         IDA            % IDA
Category                   Total        Financing      Financing      Financing
Construction               4,302           1,721         2,581             60
Furniture & Equipment      1,220 2/           80         1,140             94
Professional Services
for Construction           )79             192           287             60
Professional Services
for Third Project
Preparation                180              70           110             60
Technical Assistance             Z
and Fellowships          1,328             338           990             75
Project Administration       325             130            195            60
Unallocated (Contin-
gencies)                3152            1,205         1,947             62
TOTAL                10,986          3,736          7,250             66
Of which foreign expenditure estimated to be US$730,000.
Of which foreign expenditure estimated to be US$485,,0o0.
Source: IDA Mission
May 1975



ANNEX 10
SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US  '000)
Year                                           Accumulated       Undisbursed
Calendar Fiscal   Quarter   Disbursements    Disbursements    Balance
0*            -                -          7,250
1975                1            113              113          7,137
2            177              290         6,960
3            292              582         6,668
1976       4            382              964          6,286
5            562            1,526         5,724
1976                6            817            2,343          4,907
7            823            3,166         4,084
1977       8            783            3,949          3,301
9            743            4,692         2,558
1977               10            774            5,466          1,784
11            544            6,010         1,240
1978      12            394            6,404            846
13            315            6,719           531
1978               14            164            6,883            367
15             87            6,970           280
1979      16             96            7,o66            184
17            110            7,176            74
1979               18             74            7,250              0
1980
TOTAL              18          7,250
*Date of effectiveness
Source: IDA Mission
May 1975



SIERRA LEONE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS BY MAJOR CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(us$Ooo0)
IDA Disbursement                                                                                        Total Disbursements
Allocation        1975         1976            1977                 1978               1979              Including
Category               by Cateeorv        1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18    Contingencies
1 Civil Works                    2,581         100 100 155 230 380 450 450 410 380*376  200  150   120 110   40   35   35   30           3,751
2 Furniture & Equipment          1,140                             165 170 180 180 275  240* 160  115                                    1,485
3 Professional Services
Constructibn                  287              35  45 40  40  40140  20  20  le  10   10    6    6    6    6    5    h                343
4  Professional Services
Third Project Pre-
paration                      110                                                                        26   40   55* 2-             146
5  Technical Assistance
and Fellowships               990              30  80 100 130 150 150 160 150 100*  80   60   60   34                               1,284
6 Project Administration           195          13  12  12  12  12 12  13  13  13  13   14   14   14   14* 15   15   15   15               241
7 Unallocated (Contin- 
-  gencies                      1,907                              Included in categories 1-6 disbursements                                 0
TOTAL                   7,250         113 177 292 382 562 817 823 783 7143 774 544  394  315  164   87   96  110  714            7,250
*Funds in category exhausted. Disbursements following * represent reallocation from category 7 (unallocated).  -
April 1975                                                                                                                                      H
Source: IDA Mission



ANNEX 12
SIERRA LEONE   SECOND EWCATION PROJEiCT
IfPLEMDETATION SCHEDUlE
1975                  1976                          1977                         1978                          1979                            1960
195                   161  2  3     4      1      2       3      4       1      2       3      4       1      2       3      4       1      2       f
Civil Warks
Rokel S. S.                       -        -    ***    ***    **       S$5    SSS    W      x     xxx        m      nrs    xxx     vw ww   w
SThlenker S. S.                          ._       _     **    **       **       **    99$    $99    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    ww         v T    w
Madin S. S. S__                                          *              *** 99  9$9  xxx   xxx  ox   xxx  ww   ww   ww
Seafe. S. S.                   S        S     $                        xxx                                          xxx    xxx    xxx    xxr ww ww ww
Yoxib...a S. S.                           __     _,             9*       $    5$5    xxx    xxx   vw         vw      v-
Shenge S. S.                                      =     ._      ***    ***    ***    955    99$   xxx       on      xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    ww   ww    vw
Ba-p. s. S.                                      --    ***    ***    59    599    xxx    xxx   xxx           ww     wv    vw
Jixoni S. S..                                           ***    **      999    9$$    xxx   xxx    xxx        xxx    ww    ww    ww
Telex SI.U S.                                         *          x     99      $99    xxx   xxx    xxx S.           ww    ww
Technical Tx.ohxr Treixing                =             xxx    ***    ***    S99    99$   xxx            xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx vw      ww   v
Kiosy Trade Cent-r                        ==             999    xxx     xxx    xxx ..        ww
Iageghreka Teede Ceteo=lv== **                           *** xxx       **x xx  5$9    59$   xxx    xxx       xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    wwx   wvx    ww
Ccxxx. Technixel                                         xxx _-x    9**        999SS  5  xxx   xxx    vwx    vwx    ww
Txatitxta
Mdinistry xf Soxiel Weifare                             .==      =x ***    **          ** **        9S9      999  - xxx  - xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx   wwx   xxx          ww
NationSk  Training Cxxt- r                                                    .
Ministry of tdxxatixn              _.     =xx*x          x      xxx    999    $99    xxx   xxx    xxx        xxx    wv    wv    vw
PlaNxing UDit
I-xtitxte of Edxa-tion                                          - ==.    ***          xxx   $99$$$   $99     XKX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX   VW    WV           WW
I-titxte of Phblic Adxixia-                                 . **                     * ** * xxx   $$9    99$  xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx IU T WW VW WW
tration xnd Malxga-xnt
DRC   F -rto.x T. C.                                            xxx    xx ***          99$   999    xxx      xxx    xxx    xxx    xx    ww        ww
IRC   M Mokexi                                      =. -  -* '                                $$5 SS         xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx vw    ww  w
IRC - Port Loo T. C.                                     x_x*          xx**    x***   999   999     xxx      xxx    xx xxx         ww    wv       ww
TRC                                                             x bo  ...  . **              ***     $       999    xxx    xxx    xxx   xxx ..          vw      wv
IRC - uumu=                                                     =_x,h  ***    ***    ***   ***    S$9        9$5    xxx    xxx    xxx   xxx       xxx   xxx    vvv       wwx   xxx
Pxrxitxre end Cxxipxonr          =x                          $99    9$S            xxx    xxx   xxx    xxx       xxx    xxx    xxx...
Prxfxaaixxl Foes                               x,oo  xox     xoo    ooo      ooo   ooo    oox   ooo    oxo       ooo    oox    xxx    xxo    xxx    xoo   ooo    xxx          ooo   xoo
Teohxical Assistence and
FeIlowships
Technicel Te..hxr Training                                               ooo   ooo           xxx    ...      ...    ...    ... oo
Ministry of Social Welfare
Natioaxl Trxingig Cexter                                                             ...    ...                                          ... xxx ooo    ooo    o00 ooo  ...   ...
Ministry of Eduaxtion
Plaxxixg Unit                                   ...    ...                    ... ooo    ox    xxx    ooo    ...    ...    ...    xxx    xxx    ...
University Planning                               000    0-0    000    x00    000    x00    000    ...
Iotitote of Edxoetixs                                   ...   .ox    xoo    ooo    xxx    oox                ...    ...    ... ooo        xxx xoo     oo   o
Ixetitote of Phbli Adainis-
trrtixn *nd Nanngansnt                                 000    00.    ...    ...    xoo    xxx    ooo    ooo    xxx    ooo    000    ooo
Proiat Adsinistratixn                xoo    .xx    ooo    ooo    xxx    xoo    ooa    ooo                       xxx    xxx    xxo o o    xxx    ooo    xxx    xxx    ooo    xxx   xxx
oite ITxestigetixo, Pr-lixixary Drs-i,g                                    Wxkiixg Draving, Bills of Q..ntity                           $  Tender, Bid Eialxatixx
C ...ttr-tion of FxPxitorxtEqxip-nt D lix,ry                              o Ieplrnxxtxtixx                                               v  Txaoaxtee Perixd



SIERRA LEONE
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION 1972/73
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                    SECONDARY EDUCATION                                     SIXTH FORM
_   _ B {    3     _      D       E~~~~~D
*       Selective Entrance Examination
*       West African Examination Council (WAECi 'O' Level                                                                             HTC _agric. ed.)
o        'A' LevelHT
B        Bachelor of Arts/Science/Engineering
DE       Diploma in Education (Teachers for upper forms)
HD       Honours' Degree
HTC      Higher Teachers' Certificate ITeachers for lower forms and
specialists in agriculture education, home economics, etc.)                                         Teacher Colleges
HTD      Higher Technicians' Diploma                                  .                                _                              HTC
TC       Teachers Certificate (primary school teachers)
OTD      Ordinary Technicians' Diploma
CA       Certificate in Agriculture
CHE      Certificate in Home Economics                                                                        1        2       3      TC
CC       Crafts Certificate
Note: 1. F.T.I. Freetown Technical Institute. F.T.I. also offers four-year
part-time trade courses with entry after Form 3.                                                    Technical Institute (F.T.1.)
-  2. These courses are offered at Njala University College, U.S.L.                                       Ti
1           2{OTD
Extension Workers' Training2
E_tensn   2C             ACA
F   Trade Schools                      C
_   CC~~~~~~H
AGE  5+        6        7       8       9       10      11+          12+     13       14      15      16+              17+      18       19     20+       21+
Source: Ministry of Education and U.S.L.                                                                                                             World Bank-9790






SIERRA LEONE
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 1974/75
MINISTER
PERMANENT SECRETARY
Professional Serices                                                                                            Administrative Services
CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER
DEPUTY CHIEF EDUCATION                                                                                                    DEPUTY
OFFICER                                                                                                                  SECRETARY
rP.E.O          SENIOR                                                                  l                                         SENIOR ASSISTANT      SENIOR ASSISTANT      SEI
TEACHER-        SUPERVISOR                  TEACHING                           EDUCATION                                          SECRETARY             SECRETARY             SECRETARY
TRAINING        PHYS. EDUC.                  AID                               AND PLANNING                                       (FINANCE)             (GENERAL)              (STUDENTS)
~~~~~~~~~P.E.O.             P         ,..FE.0.                                                                      SENIOR                  ASSISTANTASSTN
PRI                      SECONDARY         T NICAL                                                                         ACCOUNTANT             SECRETARY             SECRETARY
PROVINCIAL      PRIMARY             PRINCIPALS        INSTITUTE      } ADULT        |  |  ADULT
EDUCAIONR       INSPECTORATE                          AND TRAOLSE       EDUCATION  ||EDUCATION|
| DISTRICT    |                  i             |  |   SCHOOL
EDUCATION                         PUBLlCATIONS         BROAD-
| OFFICERS   l                   l             |  |   CASTING
PEO: Principal Education Officer
Source: Ministry of Education Planning Unit                                                                                                                                      World Bank-9791



I



SIERRA LEONE
DISTRIBUTION OF PRIMARY AND
GENERAL SECONDARY ENROLLMENTS 1971-72
BOYS                                                                                        GIRLS                                              TOTAL
6 fupper)                                                                                        15      6182
6 (lower)                                                                                        159   87                                                                                             196
W        5                                                                                       2475               806                                                                                        3281
A     4                                                                                    7                      171                                                                                       4997
OU.
z
o        3                                                                             5104                            1973                                                                                    7077
2                                                                         60                                     2639                                                                                 8694
1                                                                    7415    L        E        E             <       3665! i                                                                          11080
VIl                                                  11561                    =5798                                                                                                                   17359
Vl                                                       024                                                                    6565                                                                  17589
-1
A V                                                                                                      1 2877                                  8486                                                          21363
>CI
z IV                                             143                                                                                               9900                                                     24270
E     III                                   1586                                                                                                      10881                                                 26743
I 1                                16426                                                                                                            11991                                             28417
l 230961@ MOM                                                                                                                                                 17821   __ 40917
25000             20000              15000             10000              5000                 0               5000               10000             15000              20000              25000
SOURCE: Ministry of Education Planning Unit                                                                                                                                                     World Bank-9792






IBRD 2645R
SIERRA  LEONE                                                              A-UN  |7
-rSECOND EDUCATION   o                                                                     +++ ++++++t++-I.                                                                 AFRI C A
PROJECT                                                     ,                       -'           t_
Y.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
B,s           M            B A'                                 ,'        . Li I
,       <                        D   \ ~~~~~~~~~~S T R  I C                                                        -T.R       irz*   
|   :N   J  ,' , = um m 0 R                                          o b e R  0   V
F:~~~~~~~~j                                _ q>
Fit  , , - t                                   E c O a  T    H  ;    R
/e o-2 ~                                                                   X 'IR  We  *-.-  PeeodSorob9                                                                             
1.  '],ip  ;        '    j+ST R.                                                       3                                            ,_ N~          DX I S    R I C T  | 
¼  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
|                                           4Oe , oo                                              .0D
*       omLiP        R *            a;  V          S0  D\ISTRICT                         M0U00 >V.- E  ---I                                            DISbi yr            l fn TRCHIC AT EC RTAN G
+Lo++oe4   RitliiM    oEdtTij 1                                                 _ MAyOS            OISTRLCTo                                                  TAD  CHO
A                                                            Monger.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o--Ki
Googo  Moy robe~~~~~~~~~~~ V    R
I MOYAMBA    DITICT    M
r8'S w           2                            '           O       r E    xF*                                      ',  LiISIUEO  LELCAMNSRTO   N
V_                                                    >      ul.-    C   TERD  u f f; f \; ;EIrO    1         (0,  ,         E                                  I C  T
I.  PuJoEun~~~~  ' J  .z               \     0 ~~  SECOUNDARY USUFOL
t'+'++    EGERDGOEUOUN1 NOOGdAE'XAU                    '02~~~~~~~~~~S TR                                                       E      TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINrI NG
PEOYSGEPO  j                           '>/0$JN                                                          A      m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TADE SCHOOl
Ci C ot OGG4Ur'±O                                                                                                                             MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE NATIONLTAIG
FlUNG rooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io                                                                      Q     M~~~~~~~~~~~~INISTFY OFEDCUCATION PLANNING UNIT
LStAUV                                                                                                                                     V o.STIIUIoTTE OrfOCTU
CU   5   gg  20  09 ~~~~  The OorreroerRo tee 00 AG oe~~~~~~r do owl                                                     INOTRACTIONHNIT-CT     RESOURCEURCENTERE
[.e    :-  3R5t       Wro~~~~~~~R409~~~Jteo                                       V                                        MANAGEMENT      ARIIIIIISTRATION AUG~~170  ANAGM N



