Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8582
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2001-ZA)
APRIL 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department VI
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
(Zambia Kwacha/US$)
1981      0.80
1982      1.20
1983      1.40
1984      2.00
1985      7.50
1986      7.20
1987     10.00
1988     10.00
ABBREVIATIONS
ARPT           Adaptive Research Planning Team
CARO           Chief Agricultural Research Officer
DAO            District Agricultural Officers
DTT            District Training Teams
ECU            Eastern Province Cooperative Un3in
EPAD           Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
GNP            Gross National Product
GRZ            Government of Republic of Zambia
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFAD           International Fund and Agricultural Development
LINTCO         Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD           Ministry of Agriculture and W&.er Development
PAO            Provincial Agricultural Officer
PCW            Provincial Commissioner of Works
PEMO           Provincial Extension Management Officer
PPS            Provincial Permanent Secretary
PS             Permanent Secretary
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEC            Supervision and Evaluation Committee
SMS            Subject Matters Specialist
SPO            Senior Planning Officer
ZADB           Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmFCUL us ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. O.C. 20433
USA.
Olk. of Detm.Getweal
0pmateu. fvalwtsufl
April 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 2001-ZA)
Attached, for information. is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zambia - Eastern Province Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 2001-ZA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II
of the report contributed by the Borrower.  No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriation.



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMKNT PROJECT (LN ZOO1-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
Preface .....................................................                                 i
Evaluation  Summary ................................  .........                               i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART  I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ...... ......                               1
1.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ....................................                                1
Introduction ..........................................                              1
Project Formulation and Objectives ....................                              1
II.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ................................                              2
General ...............................................                              2
Agricultural Research .................................                              3
Agricultural Extension ................................                              4
Agricultural  Inputs Delivery ..........................                             5
Agricultural Credit ...................................                              6
Agricultural Processing ...............................                              7
Tsetse Control ........................................                              7
Project Planning, Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation ..........................................                             7
III.   PROJECT RESULTS .......................................                                a
General ...............................................                              8
Agricultural  Impact ...................................                             8
Economic  Impact .......................................                             9
Project Sustainability ................................                              9
Borrower's  Performance ................................                            10
Bank Performance ......................................                             10
IV.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .......................                              11
Conclusio.'s .......                                                                11
Lessons Learned .......................................                             11
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE   .......                            13
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ... #                   ......................          17
ATTACHMENT
1. Comments from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development ......................    23
MAP - IBRD 14672
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed w;;hout World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVmLOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2001-2A)
PREFACE
This  is the Project Cimpletion Report  (PCR) for the Eastern
Province Agricultural Development Project (EPAD) in Zambia for which Loan
2001-ZA in the amount of US$11.0 million was approved on May 21, 1981. The
project was cofinanced by IFAD with a loan of US$10.6 million.  The Bank
and IFAD loans were closed on June 30, 1988 after a one-year extension,
with undisbursed balances of US$4.4 million for the Bank loan and US$5.8
million for the IFAD loan.
The PCR was jointly prepared by FAO/CP staff in consultation with
IFAD (Parts I and III), the Borrower (Part II) and staff of the Africa
Regional Office (Evaluation Summary). Annex 1 contains the comments on the
PCR from IFAD, the cofinancier.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based, inter alia, on a draft PCR
prepared by the Government, the ,taff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, and field discussions with project staff and
relevant Government officials.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2001-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective
1.       The primary objective of the project was to increase production of
the major crops in the Eastern P;ovince (para. 1.03).   This was to be
achieved trough improving research, extension, credit and input supply
services.  The project also sought to:  (a) improve groundnut and cotton
processing and storage; (b) strengthen institutional capability of the
Eastern Cooperative Union (ECU) and Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
(ZADB) through technical assistance; (c) strengthen the planning,
monitoring and evaluation capability of the provincial office; and (d)
eradicate tsetse fly in a seleL.ted area. The objectives were appropriate
relative to the provincial development potential and needs.
Implementation Experienc /
2.       Project implementation was adversely affected mainly by five
factors. First, the country-wide shortage of qualified staff resulted in
frequent changes of key staff, especially at the middle and high levels,
and long delay in releasing counterpart staff for training (para. 2.2). At
the project completion date, most of the counterpart staff were either
quite new or were away for training abroad. Second, the project suffered
from inadequate and delayed release of local funds, reflecting country-wide
budgetary constraints. This problem particularly affected availability of
recurrent funds for supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, and field
travel allowances which are essential to ensure effectiveness of extension
and research staff.   The problem was exacerbated by suspension of
disbursement of IBRD funds since May 1987. Third, considerable delays were
experienced in the construction of staff houses and other civil works
mainly due to lengthy and cumbersome procurement procedures of the
Government (para. 2.03). Fourth, project implementation was significantly
hampered by inadec'uate decentralization of authority from the headquarters
in Lusaka to the provincial offices of the Ministry of Agriculture, ZADP
and the Lint Comp=ny (LINTCO).   Whereas the office of the Provincial
Principal Secretary was responsible for implementing and coordinating
project activities, any significant decisions had to be referred to the
respective headquarters ir. Lusaka (para. 2.21).   Fifth, uncertainties
regarding Government policy prevented the implementation of the component
relating to output marketing and input distribution (para. 2.13), while
inappropriate price policy prevented implementation of the groundnut
processing component (para. 2.18).
1/    IFAD has noted the need to separately appraise central
institutions in area based projects - see para. 6 of IFAD's
comments.



- iii -
3.       Despite the above drawbacks, notable progress was made in carrying
out a large number of on-farm research trials with emphasis on improved
cultural practices (paras. 2.4-2.5); in strengthening research and
extension links (para. 2.6); and in establishing a framework for the
Training and Visit (T&V) system (para. 2.7); and in establishing and
extension communication center (para. 2.11).  After long delay, both ECU
and ZADB managed to initiate and extend credit services to a sizable number
of farmers (para. 2.17).  An efficient way of processing cotton seed was
introduced (para. 2.18). A workable monitoring and evaluation system was
developed and integrated into the provincial office (para. 2.23).  On the
other hand, the tsetse fly eradication component had to be abandoned as it
became clear that it could not achieve effective results in the absence of
a comprehensive program to eradicate the fly in all areas (para. 2.19).
Project Results
4.       The project impact was expected to be reflected in increased crop
production as a result of improved research, extension, and credit
services.  Indications suggest that, as a result of the project, a larger
number of farmers started to use improved technological packages,
especially for maize.   The quality of marketed maize rose by nearly
threefold during the project period (para. 3.4).  However, the increased
production was also due to several ot'.er factors outside the influence of
the project, such as favorable producer prices, good weather conditions and
ready availability of fertilizer at r-asonable cost.
5.       The draft PCR in 1987 had reestimated an economic rate of return
(ERR) for the extension component at 14 percent (compared with the SAR's
ERR of 12 percent for the project) on the assumption that Government would
continue to fund project services and that full development would be
reached in year 12.  Project management questioned the validity of this
reestimation in 1988 since the Government had not providc t adequate funds
after 1987. Consequently, the PCR concludes that reestimating the ERR for
the project at this stage would be highly speculative, if not misleading
(see PCR paras. 3.5 - 3.7).
Sustainability
6.       Sustainability of the project activities is doubtful due to
budgetary and manpower constraints, particularly to ensure continuation of
the T&V system and field research trials and to maintain real value of the
credit fund.   Already the Government is finding it difficult tQ,provide
enough financial resources for extension services (para. 3.8). 'Up to
completion time, the project remained heavily dependent on expatriate staff
whose departure has left a gap that will take several years to fill with
qualified and experienced local staff.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.       There are three main categories of findings and lessons to be
learned from this project  (para.  4.2).   First,  project design and
2/    IFAD has noted that funds were included under another project
for the extension service (see para. 5 of IFAD9s comments)0



- iv -
implementation plan should have reflected constraints arising from the
shortages of local funds and qualified manpower and should have included a
firm schedule for the training of the key counterpart staff.   Second,
country-wide issues, such as the cumbersome procurement procedures, should
have been addressed through lending operations with leverage at the
national level.  Third, project implementation responsibility should have
been complemented with sufficient authority at the provincial level.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2001-ZA)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTrvE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name        I     Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Loan Number         I     2001-ZA
RVP Unit                  Africa
Country             X     Zambia
Sector              I     Agriculture
Subsector           s     Area Development/Rural Development
I. PROJECT BACKCRODND
rnlroductn
1.1      The  Eastern  Province  Agricultural Development Protect (EPAD) was
identified by a Bank mission in 1978 and prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) with Bank's assistance. It was
appraised in August and September 1979, but had to be re-appraised in
November 1980 to 2ake account of the changes introduced by the Government of
Zambia (GRZ) in the structure of marketing, input delivery and public
service salaries after appraisal. The project, to be implemented over a five
and a half years, was estimated to cost USS 28.1 million and was co-financed
by   rBRD   and   IFAD,   who   provided   loans  for  USS 11.0 million  and
SQR 9.0 million, respectively. The project became effective in June 1982 and
the loans were expected to be closed on 30 June 1987. GRZ prepared a project
completion report, which was finalized in November 1987. In the meantime.
however, the closing date was extended to 30 June 1988. This teport is based
on the completion report prepared by GRZ and on additional information
collected in the field to cover the extension period.
Proiet Formulation and O C,i-ve
1.2      The  project  was  formulated during a period when Zambia's economy
was declining as the result of depressed copper priceq which led to faliing
GNP, GRZ revenues and export earning. In order to make up for the loss in
the mining sector, GRZ accorded high priority to agriculture and rural
development   by   increasing   substantially  the  sector's  share  in  the
development budget. Recognizing the importance of the smallholder sub-
sector, GRZ decided to accord priority to investment in broad-based regional
agricultural and rural development projects. EPAD was the first of such
projects; similar projects have since been financed in other provinces.
1.3      The  objectives  of  the  project  were  to  increase  agricultural
production and incomes of small farmers in the Eastern Province by providing
improved agricultural services. The project was to achieve its objectives by
financing: a) agricultural research, including additional staff, equipment,
housing, transport and operating costs for expanded research programmes; b)
agricultural extension including a re-organization of the extension service
along the lines of the Training and Visit System; c) agricultural input
delivery comprising constr-ction of input storaqe and purchase of inputs; d)
agricultural credit including the funding of incremental credit to farmers
and technical assistance to improve credit operations; e) agricultural
processing, through the provision of groundnut shellers, construction of an
insecticide packing  plant  and  infrastructural  improvement  of  a2 cotton
ginnery: f) tsetse control consisting of spraying an area of 1700 km in the
province: and 9) project planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation
including the strengthening of the provincial services through technical
assistance and funding incremental costs.



- 2 -
1.4      Overall  responsibility for projAet planninq, budgeting. monitoring
and reporring wag acsinned to the Provincial Permanent Secretary (PPS) whose
office  was  to  be  strengthened through the provision of a Senior Planninq1
Officer (SPO) and Senior Finance Officer (SFO) with their respective support
staff. The PPS was to be assisted by a Supervisory and Evaluation Committee
(SEC), to be established within the MAWD, whose functions would be to
review, coordinate and approve the budgets and workplans prepared at the
province. Members of the SEC were to be the Permanent Secretary (PS) of MAWD
as chairman; the PS of tte Ministry of Finance and National Commission for
Development  Planning;  MAWD's  Directors  of  Agriculture,  of   Veterinary
Services, Tsetse Contiol and Planning; General Managers of the Eastern
Province Co-operative Union (ECU), Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO) and
Zambia   Agricultural  Development  Bank  (ZADS).  The  project  was  to  be
implemented  through  the  existing  line  agencies.  Responsibilities   for
implementation were therefore ascribed to the Chief Agricultural Research
Officer  (CAROj  in  MAWD  for  the  research  component;   the   Provincial
Agricultural Officer (PAO) assisted by a Provincial Extension Management
Officer (PEMO) for agricultural extension: the provincial Tsetse Control
Officer for spraying the designated areas; and the General Managers of ECU,
ZADB and LINTCO for implementing the components regardinq input storage and
supply, credit and agricultural processing.
1.5      In  1977,  GRZ  had conceived the project as a means of raising the
production of seed cotton by smallholders in the Eastern Province. During
preparation it was rightly realized that a project focused only on cotton
development would subject farmers to risks of failure, particularly as a
result of adverse prices, which would eventually oblige them to switch to
other crops. The concept of supporting the entire crop production sector
under   the  project  was  therefore  sound.  However,  in  the  process  of
formulation, the project was complicated by the inclusion of too many
components and institutions which made project management and coordinatien
cumbersome (paras 2.20 - 2.23).
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Gonaral
2.1      Although  the  IBRD  loan  was  signed  in  November  1981, GRZ had
difficulty meeting the conditions for loan effectiveness, which included the
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement with LTNTCO and a financing
agreement with ECU, appointment of three specialists (SPO, SFO and PEMO) and
the establishment of a project advance account. The delays resulted due to
the tranifer of a number of senior officials in the province and in Lusaka
who were familiar with the project. The new officials took some time to
understand the project and its start-up needs. Specific and coordinated
actions needed to initiate project implementation were therefore delayed
inspite of the availability of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advanced
by the Bank for this purpose, much before the signing of the loan. Project
implementation was also adversely affected by lack of local funds and
lengthy procurement procedures. The project was extended by one year to
enable it to achieve its planned objectives. However, this extension was of
little benefit since the Bank suspended disbursements to all the projects
financed in Zambia in May 1987, which is still in effect. The salient
features of project implementation are summarized below.



-3
Acricultural Research
2.2      The   project  aimed  at  supporting  and  expanding  the  existing
programme of agricultural research relevant to small farmers and consisted
of grain legume research, groundnut aqronomy and farming systems adaptive
research. Provisions for major improvements were made to Msekera researcn
station, where the bulk of the research activities were centered, as well as
some improvement in Masumba sub-station and support to a national  programme
in Mount Makulu. The project provided five expatriate consultants in 1982
who were stationed at Msekera, to carry out the research programmes and to
transfer skills to their counterpart staff through on-the-job traininq.
Because of the shortage of academ-.cally qualified staff. GRZ was to recruit
staff with B.Sc. degree who would be sent for further education under
bilatf    arrangements, early enough so that they would return to work while
the *.sultants were still with the project. No provision was therefore made
undcr the project for formal training of Zambian  research  staff.  However,
due to bureaucratic delays, the staff were sent for their overseas education
only in 1985 and 1986. and at project completion only two were back and four
were still under training. The consultants had therefore to work for much of
the time without qualixfied counterpart staff, thus jeopardizing the intended
transfer of skills and smooth handing over of research work to the staff who
would continue the work. The sbsence of a detailed proqramme specifying when
staff would undergo their training and return to work. zan be considered as
a deficiency in project design in t,hat bureaucratic delays could have been
anticipated at project appraisal.±'
2.3      Because of the delay encountered in constructing housing for staff,
in spite of the availability of the PPF to be used for this purpose, the
research staff worked under extreme difficulties during the project start-up
period. This was eased when the houses were constructed later, a total of  9
staff  houses  and  5  offices in Mseker.a. The offices, to be utilized by 18
professionals and 6 technical  staff,  are  inadequate.  Other  deficiencies
include lack of library facilities and adequate storage for seeds, including
cold store. The project support to  Mount  Makulu  was  dropped  because  no
activity  was  initiated  until  the mid-term review of the project in April
1985. The irrigation civil works at Masumba sub-station were also not
completed due to delay by the Provincial Commissioner of Works (PCW),
although a well was drilled by a private firm and the necessary materials
and equipment had been procured.
2.4      In  spite  of  the above-mentioned dificulties, the progress of the
research programme was admirable. The farming systems research commenced by
carrying *out a survey in August 1982 in order to assess farmers' practices
and constraints. Based on this survey, and on the review of previous
research, trials were designed in the different agricultural zones. From
project commencement some 65 to 100 on-farm trials were established in each
season in cooperation with the extension staff, in addition to the
experiments undertaken at the Msehera station. Research was carried out both
on crop basis, as well as on 4 whole-farm approach, mainly under rainfed
agriculture reflecting the conditions in the province.
2.5      Given the inability of small farmers to purchase addition..  inputs
and the risk inherent in rainfed farming, the research programme has been
focussed to increase farmers income by improving cultural practices with the
limited use of fertilizers. Results obtained that improved yields included:
earlier planting of sunflower, rotation of legumes with maize, improvement
of ridges in maize cultivation, identification of suitable crop varieties,
appropriate application of fertilizer, weed control, better plant spacing,
spraying cotton crop and planting early maize to be followed by late season
soybean or sunflower. Most of the findings have been published and passed on
3/    See par&. 6 of IFAD's comments.



- 4-
to extension staff for transfer to farmers.
2.6      Linkage between research and extension was established successfully
during the project. The Adaptive Research Planning Team (ARPT) located at
the Msekera station was the main link with extension service. The ARPT,
which is responsible for testing the practicality of research findings on
farm  conditions,  has  been  undertaking its trials in conjunction with the
extension  staff.  In  addition,  it  assisted  the   extension   staff   in
establishing   and   supervising   demonstration  plots.  This  linkage  was
formalized by establishing a committee under the chairmanship of the PAO.
The function of this committee is to discuss research findings, agree on
future work programmes and establish which demonstrations to carry out.
Agricultural Extension
2.7      The project has reorganized the extension service in  the  province
by introducing the Training and Visit (T&V) system. Between 1983 and 1986
T&V was introduced in all the nine agricultural extension districts. The
districts were subdivided into blocks and the blocks into camps. There are a
total of 4 blocks and 300 camps. Each district was provided with a District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) who supervises the Block Supervisors (BS) and the
latter in turn supervise 300 camp officers, who are the extension workers.
The main pattern of staff training consists in the preparation of a monthly
Agricultural Bulletin by the Provincial Subject Mater Specialists (SMS) who
travel to the districts to deliver and explain the contents of the bulletin
to the District Training Teams (DTT). The DTT's visit each block once a week
and deliver the messages to the BS and extension workers for transfer to the
farmers. The crop recommendations are based on existing information and
results obtained by the project's research component. Any relevanit feedback
from the extension workers is passed on to the SMS by the DTT's.
2.8      While the mechanism for the T&V system has been put in  place  with
the assistance of consultants, many staff had not understood the system
clearly. It was envisaged at appraisal that staff would be provided with
study tours to other countries where T&V system is operating successfully.
However, this was not carried out by the project apparently due to delay in
initiating the proposal in the beginning, ane due to Government bureaucracy
later. Missing the opportunity to go on study tour was deeply resented by
the extension staff. The lack of understanding of the T&V system meant
essentially lack of understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the
staff. At the beginning, the SIS were limiting themselves to producing the
training bulletin and discussing with DTTs without much supervision on how
the training was being conducted in the field. The OTTs themse7.es were
conducting the training like in a classroom fashion without the necessary
discussions and field work. Likewise the extension workers vere selecting
the contact farmers with little consideration to representing the farming
community. For instance, although women are active in farming, their
representation as contact farmers was negligible.
2.9      The  situation  has  improved  towards  the  end  of  the   project
implementation, but still some difficulties remain. A survey carried out in
1987 by the project evaluation unit showed that only half of the sampled
non-contact farmers reported to know about contact farmers and less than 20%
claimed to have received advice from the contact farmers. About one-third of
the sampled non-contact farmers reported to be receiving no advice from any
source. The same survey indicated that the number of cancelled scheduled
meetings between contact farmers and extension workers is high, and was
mostly due to the non-arrival of the extension worker, thus revealing
weakness in the supervision. On the positive side the survey found that the
choice  of  contact  farmers  had  been  corrected  to  include  a   broader



-5-
representation of the farming community and increased number of female heads
of households were qelected as conta-t farmers.
2.10     Some of the difficulties are attributable to the lack  of  adequate
mobility   and   housinq   facilities.   The  procured  vehicles,  including
motorcycles and bicycles, have worn out and lack spare parts. Additional
procurement did not take place because of the delay caused by lengthy
procedures,  which  was  later  interrupted  when  loan   disbursement   was
suspended. Accommodation was also a problem in the camps. Initially, the
construction of houses were given to contractors, but many contractors could
not find the necessary material particularly when auctioning of the kwacha
was introduced to obtain imported materials. The project responded to this
crisis by procuring material by itself and handing it to PCW. However, PCW
was also slow in constructing the houses due to its high commitment to other
works. Insufficient travel allowance for the extension workers has also not
encouraged the staff to travel in the field frequently.
2.11     The project procured equipment and material  for  visual  aids  for
training purposes, but these were not used until the recruitment of a
communications specialist consultant in May 1987, which was not foreseen at
appraisal. After the arrival of the consultant it was discovered that most
of the equipment and material was incomplete and not suitable for effective
use in extension communication. Nevertheless, after the arrival of the
consultant, a media centre was established and took over the production of
the Agricultural Bulletin with the help of SMS as well as the production of
a new bulletin in local language for farmers which is being distributed at a
nominal charge of K 1.50. This bulletin, which includes simple messages with
illustrations, is reported to be appreciated by farmers and is expected to
make a positive impact in improving farmers' agricultural practices. The
media centre is also collaborating with the radio stations and strengthening
the drama groups already established by the project.
2.12     Although  the  extension  service  was gradually improving, serious
problems were experienced as the result of shortage of funds, after the
suspension of disbursement of loan. The departure of the consultants, who
assisted in the establishment of the T&V system, and the transfer of
responsibilities to the officials of the extension service coincided with
the financial difficulties. GRZ funds were able to cover essentially the
salaries of staff, but not travel allowances and replacement, operation and
maintenance of vehicles. As a result, most of the staff could not undertake
the necessary field travel. This situation is still prevalent and the T&V
system has practically come into a halt, resulting in the frustration and
discouragement of the extension staff and in the loss of momentum of the
recently introduced system.
2.13     Under this component the project proposed to expand  input  storage
capacity   for ECU and for LINTCO and to finance the purchase of incremental
fertilizers, seed and pesticides above those of 1980/81 in each year of the
project. At completion, the project provided ohly for the construction of
the ECU stores. The construction of the LINTCO stores and the financing of
inputs were excluded from the project during the mid-term review against the
wishes of LINTCO. The main reason for these measures was that likely changes
in GRZ policy on delivery of inputs and marketing of produce made the need
for supporting the components uncertain. An added reason put forward was
that the project support for ECU and ZADB credit operations indirectly
covered the same requirement, although the financing of both the purchase of
inputs and credit operations were precisely included in the SAR.



-6-
2.14     The  exclusion  of  LINTCO  input  stores  was  particularly short-
qiqhtnd. Now, with the prmdictinn nf rott"n increarlnQ substantially, one of
LINTCO's  main  problems  .s  delivering  the inputs to farmers. At present,
delivery in remote areas is by trucks to roadsides, and this arrangement has
proved unsatisfactory because all farmers may not come to the roadside at
the same time and weather may disrupt the delivery operations.
Aaricultural Credit
2.15     It was envisaged at appraisal to strengthen ECU to becow,e  a  major
on-lender of GRZ credit funds and to assist the ZADB to become established
through the provision of additional staff and technical assistance. The
project also made provisions for incremental credit funds to be channelled
through these two institutions to smallholder farmers.
2.16     ECU was provided with  an  expatriate  credit  specialist  who  has
assisted in codifying loan/supervision procedures, in carrying out financial
projections and training the newly recruited credit supervisors. The ECU
credit component was implemented at a much slower pace because of ECU's
delay in meeting its obligations in preparing the five-year financial plan
and annual work programmes. After solving these difficulties, project funds
had started to flow and medium-term loans known as "oxenization" programme
was started in 1986. Up to the closing date a total credit of K 2.7 million
were provided to about 410 cooperative member farmers under the project. The
credit package, re-payable between 2-3 years, consisted of oxen, carts,
ploughs, hand sprayers and veterinary packs. This credit programme is
reported to have improved the incomes of these farmers. On the average the
cultivated area per farmer has increased from 1 ha using a hoe to S ha using
oxen, plus additional income was being earned by farmers through the hire of
oxen. All farmers who took the credit package in 1986 have repayed their
debt. After completion of the project, ECU is seeking more funds to boost
the programme but so far has rot succeeded. It intends, however, to continue
relending the K 2.7 million, but the number of farmers being financed will
continue to decrease since the cost of tne credit package is increasing.
2.17     ZADB was to be funded under the project in establishing it as a new
credit institution to provide agricultural credit nationwide. From the
outset, the establishment of ZADB was faced with serious difficulties. In
the first year of the project the four consultants recruited by GRZ to
assist in the production of policy papers for establishing the institution
were found inadequate to accomplish their duties. These consultants were
recruited without the necessary clearance from the Bank. Resolving these
difficulties was lengthy anid ZADB only became operational in 1985. In
1985/86 and 1986/87, ZADB provided a total credit of K 11.8 million (K 10.8
million for seasonal credit and K 1 million for medium-term) to about 5,300
farmers. In June 1987, ZADB and the Agricultural Finance Corporation, who
were working in parallel, were merged to form Lima Bank. The new Bank is
expected to be self-financing and has been empowered to mobilize funds as a
commercial bank. It was planning to lend to more farmers in 1987/88, but was
unable to accomplish this after the suspension of loan disbursement. The
credit programme under Lima Bank was channeled through groups of 20 farmers
who are jointly responsible for the credit provided for each member of the
group. This system has worked well and recovery of credit is over 95%.



-7-
Aartcuitural Prgcessino
2.18     The  project  made  provisions  for  the  supply of small groundnut
shellers for ECU, constructiotn of a ntew insecticide packing plant for LINTCO
and  provision  of  storage  facilities  for cotton with the installation of
truck weighbridge and lhard toppinig of the ginnery compound.  During  project
implementation, it became clear that there was no incentive for the
cooperative unilons to use groundnut shellers as the cost of shelling was not
adequately reflected in the price of shelled nuts. This item was therefore
excluded  from  the   project.   Likewise,    it   became   apparent   during
implementation that cotton spraying was to continue using pyrethroid for
which the plant was not required. The funds intended for the plant were
therefore reallocated for the establishment of an acid delinting plant which
has been very successful. Before its establishment, seed was sent to Lusaka
from Chipata for delintinq and then returned. The project has also provided
storage and other facilities in the ginnery, which have improved its
operations.
Tsetse Control
2.19     An  area  of 1.700 km2 in Petauke South, which was isolated in 1979
from the main tsetse belt, was to be sprayed under the project. During
implementation, the area was increased to 2,000 km to include other areas
re-infest?d since 1979 when the project was prepared. In 1983, an area of
2,000  km   was  aerially  sprayed  instead  of  manually  as  envisaged  at
appraisal. Soon after spraying it became clear that isolated spraying was
not effective and that a comprehensive plan was necessary to eradicate
tsetse fly and further spraying was stopped after the mid-term review. The
ineffectiveness of isolated spraying in an area surrounded by tsetse
infestation could have been anticipated at appraisal. At present, about half
of the area sprayed by the project is estimated to have been re-infested.
Proi[et Planninga  Cordation  Monitorino and Evaluation
2.20     The  planning  and  coordination  of project works proved difficult
particularly during project start-up because of lack of understanding of the
project by the newly transferred officials at the province and in Lusaka.
Later, after the dialogue which took place between supervision missions and
concerned government officials on project management and implementation
arrangements, matters became clearer. However, project planning suffered
throughout   the   project  implementation  period  due  to  cumbersome  GRZ
procurement procedures as well as inadequate and delayed release of funds.
2.21     Coordination of the project also suffered as a result of the rather
simplistic management arrangement made at appraisal. While it was intended
to  implement  the  project  under   the   framework   of   the   provLncial
administrative structure, the role of coordination and approval of work
plans was given to the SEC to be headquartered in Lusaka some 600 km away
from Chipata. All members of the SEC had nationwide responsibilities in
their respective competence. consequently did not give any special attention
to this specific project covering only the Eastern Province. In early 1985,
a Project Management Committee was established in the province under the
chaLrmanship of the Deputy Permanent Secretary whose members were the heads
of the implementing agencies in the province. This Committee met at
intervals   of   3   to  4  weeks  and  discussed  project  work  plans  and
implementation with a view to coordinating the project activities. Although
this committee succeeded in raising the awareness of the agencies for close
coordination, it had no authority to enforce decisions made by it, which
belong to the SEC, particularly vis-a-vis LINTCO, ZADB and ECU who are
autonomous bodies responsible to their parent organizations. Any decision by



-8-
these agencies required clearance from their headquarters in Lusaka. The
asctmption thnt these aqanties would he fully integrated in the project
management under the PPS was not realistic.
2.22     Coordination  at  the province level, which was de facto undertaken
by the SPO was not as smooth as anticipated. He  has  not  always  succeeded
fully in discharging his responsibility of gathering all the workplans and
quarterly reporting covering the whole project. Reports on expenditures and
implementation progress were received from the agencies outside the direct
control of the PPS irregularly and with some reluctance. This situation
improved only after the establishment of the Provincial Project Management
Committee  where  the  autonomous   agencies   collaborated   in   providing
information concerning their works to the SPO. Another problem which reduced
project coordination was the slow integration of the expatriate consultants
in the provincial administrative structure. Provincial officials apparently
resented the special facilities offered to the consultants and resisted
their rapid integration into the provincial working system.
2.23     The   monitoring   and   evaluation   unit  has  been  successfully
undertaking the monitoring of project activities. At completion, it became a
viable unit with qualified staff trained in data collection, processing and
analysis equipped with the necessary data bank and computer facilities. -The
unit has produced about 15 reports which are mostly the result of surveys in
the field. At project completion the unit has been fully incorporated into
the Provincial Planning Unit.
III. PROJECT RESULTS
Genera
3.1      The impact of  the  project  in  the  Eastern  Province  should  be
evaluated essentially in terms of its core components, i.e. agricultural
extension and research. The other components have been scaled down during
implementation and thus their contribution in the context of Eastern
Province is minimal. Nevertheless, project support to LINTCO and ZADB/Lima
Bank has improved their operations. It has also benefitted ECU by providing
it with stores, technical assistance and some funds for re-lending, and it
is now on a better footing to assist farmers than before.
3.2      The re-organization of the extension service along the lines of the
T&V system is reported to have generated some benefits, though it is still
early to make any definitive assessment. Given the complementarity of
different inputs and the increases in producer prices, it is difficult to
separate the contribution of extension to increased crop production. In
addition, the introduction of the T&V system is essentially an institution-
strengthening process and requires several years before its impact is felt.
Nevertheless, observations in the field,as reported by the project staff,
indicate that the project is contributing to increased production.
3.3      One indicator used to evaluate the impact of extension has been the
rate of adoption of messages by farmers. A survey carried out by the project
indicated   that   an   increased   number  of  farmers  are  following  the
recommendations made by the extensu n service. The notable messages adopted
by farmers are better practices in cultivating local maize, shift to hybrid
maize cultivation and application of fertilizers at appropriate time.
Adoption of messages in sunflower cultivation and other crops has been slow
because of depressed producer prices.



-9-
3.4      Mniz.e prntiirtinn in thr rrnvtilr-a hAq heon incrpaninq throunhout the
project  period.  According  to ECU, t.he procurement of maize has grown from
1.28 million bags in 1982 to 3.64 million bags in 1988. Procurement of maize
varied from 0.5 million bags to 1.18 million bags during the period 1973 to
1981. The increases in production are due to several factors including
higher use of inputs, increased producer prices and better research and
extension service. Most of the inicreases are. however, believed to have been
induced by increased producer prices. Maize producer prices have been
increased progressively from K 18.30/bag in 1983 to K 8O/bag in 1988.
Eeonomic Impact
3.5      According to the original PCR prepared in 1987 about  one-third  of
the farmers in the province are adopting the messages provided by the
extension service. The report estimates that maize yield increases due to
extension to be of the order of 5% - 7s depending on whether the farmer is a
contact farmer or a non-contact farmer. Based on these assumptions, the
report estimates an annual increment of local maize of 3,100 tons (34,400
bags) and 2,800 tons (31,100 bags) of hybrid maize.
3.6      The above report undertook the calculation of the economic rate  Qf
return  (ERR)  for  the project, assuming that the extension advice would be
steadily adopted by 60% of the small farmers within 12 years of the  project
life,  and  that  GRZ  would  sustain the project costs over the life of the
project. It estimated that at full development extension service would
induce  an  annual  increase  of 4,700 tons (52,200 bags) of local maize and
4,300 tons (47,800 bags) of hybrid maize. In  addition,  it  estimated  some
benefits from other components such as from the construction of stores and
tsetse control. Based on these assumptions an ERR of 14% was calculated for
the project over a 25 year period. At appraisal the ERR was estimated at 12%
and the main benefits were expected to accrue from improved extension
service. The estimated ERR (14%) was, however, questioned, by the project
management in July 1988 (in an appendix to the PCR) after the realization
that GRZ had not provided funds after the suspension of loan disbursement.
3.7      Given  the  inherent difficulty in quantifying the benefits derived
from extension service, and the uncertainty created by the inadequacy of
funds availability for continuing the T&V system in the province, re-
estimating  the  ERR  for  the  project  at  this  stage  would  be   highly
speculative, if not misleading.
Proiect sustainabiit4/
3.8      The  sustainability  of  the extension service as introduced by the
project is in question. As mentioned earlier, GRZ has not provided the
necessary funds to operate the T&V system viz travel allowance, additional
vehicles to replace the unserviceable ones, and vehicles operating and
maintenance costs. If this situation continues to prevail, the intended
coverage of small farmers by the T&V system will remain limited rendering
the investment made so far unviable. The sustainability of agricultural
research is also in question for lack of funds although there are hopes that
support might be obtained from external sources.
41    See par.. 9 of IFAD's comments.



- 10 -
Borrower s Performance
3.9      The  introduction  of  the  T&V  system  and  the  strengthening of
agricultural research, amid .unding, procurement and other difficulties,
should be considered as successful achievement by the project management.
However, the performance of the borrower was lower than what had been
anticipated at appraisal in that GRZ took considerable time to meet the
conditions for effectiveness, to utilize the PPF funds and slow in releasing
funds to the project which were often inadequate. In addition, the SEC has
not  succeeded  in  solving  difficulties  faced  by   the   project,   e.g.
coordination amonq the implementing agencies, delays in procurement of
equipment, and in the training of research staff. GRZ had also undertaken an
unfortunate decision to recruit consultants to assist in the establishment
of ZADB without the necessary consultation with the Bank, who later proved
to be unsuitable for the job, thus delaying the implementation of this
component considerably. GRZ was generally slow in complying with the loan
covenants. For instance, audit reports were not prepared on time and at
project completion, accounts were audited only up to 1986. The depositing in
advance of funds required by the project for each quarter was not totally
complied with. It should be recognized, however, that project implementation
has coincided with a period of economic difficulties and budget constraints
in Zambia and that shortage of funds was not unique only to this project.
Bank Performance
3.10     In general, the project was well conceived, although in retrospect,
it might have been preferable to limit the project to its core components,
i.e. agricultural extension and research. The idea of supporting the new T&V
extension system through the provision of storage, credit and other inputs
under the project, although desirable, has in the end complicated project
coordination, thus distracting project management and supervision from
concentrating on the main components. Considerable efforts have been
directed towards the minor components during project implementation even
though, in the end, they were implemented at a much reduced scale. The
inclusion of autonomous institutions under management and coordination
within the provincial structure, as well as the capability of GRZ in
providing the necessary funds to the project, should have been given much
more attention during project appraisal.
3.11     Thirteen full supervision missions have visited the project  during
implementation. The mission composition, interval of supervision, as well as
the continuity of staff within the missions was satisfactory. They were
helpful in assisting the project management and staff in solving problems by
requesting GRZ to attend to the different emerging issues. However, during
mid-term review, it is felt that some necessary components, such as the
construction of LINTCO stores, were excluded against the wishes and advice
of the project staff.



- 13 -
IV.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
4.1      The project han succeeded in re-organizing the extension service in
the  Eastern  Province  .y  introducing  the  T&V  system,  and strengthened
agricultural research. In addition, it has streamlined the operations of
ECU, LINTCO and ZADB/LIMA Bank enabling them to provide a better service to
the agricultural sector. However, it has failed to substantially increase
the provision of agricultural inputs to support the extension efforts in the
province. The project was constrained by cumbersome procurement procedures,
delayed   release   and  shortage  of  funds  and  poor  coordination  among
implementing agencies. The problems were aggravated by the suspension of
loan disbursement in May 1987 as GRZ failed to provide the necessary funds
to continue implementation and operation of the project.
Lassons Learned
4.2      The following  lessons  can  be  le.;rned  from  the  implementation
experience of the project:
i) project design should focus on the core components and addition of
minor components should be resisted in order to facilitate  project
implementation and coordination;
ii) the management of a project is likely to face difficulties if the
project authorities have no control over implementinq institutions
such as the autonomous bodies;
iii) project scale and timing should be based on realistic assumptions
on government capability in meeting the additional funds required
for the implementation and operation of projects, particularly when
the economy is in difficulty and revenues are declining;
iv) important project elements such as the training of research staff
should be made either as part of the project or precisely specified
with a dated covenant;
v) revision of project components should be carried out in dialogue
*and harmony with the implementing agencies by explaining the need
for it. Unilateral decisions create resentment in the project
staff, affecting their commitment to the project; and
vi) project implementation plan should take account of the time
consuming procurement procedures and provide for sufficient lead
time.



- 13 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
/       Li m                                                Head Of fice
Kulima House
P. 0. Box 32607
ml - - -   __Lusaka Zambia
DdnnEE~EU LInTel: 2131 11
anL_ie                                          Telex. Z.A 40126
t~~~~~~~~~~~ROgzs^ O,nc.I Batik
REF: LBL/MD/40
14th February 1990
Mr Graham Donaldson
Chief
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Donaldson
Re: ZAMBIA; EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (LOAN 2001-ZA) PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I wish to thank you most sincerely for sending me a copy of
the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the above project.
As you might have discovered, I was the key planner of this
project while at the Ministry of Agriculture as Director of
Planning. More or less at the same time I had planned the
creation of the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB).
I am therefore honoured to be asked to make comments on what
I may term "my own projects."
The qpnclusions of the Project Completion Report are correct
in many respects and in Zambia's current situation, it is not
difficulty to identify bottlenecks. At the time of planning
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project, Zambia's
situation was much more stable and in particular, the
financial situation looked promising. The government policy
towards agriculture vas getting more favourable and many
young Zambians were coming out of universities. Under this
environment, optimism had to rule.
During project planning, I had foreseen the difficulties of
the   Permanent  Secretary  (MAWD)  being  chairman  of  the
Supervisory and Evaluation Committee (SEC). My fears were
that   since  each  province  would  have  a  regional-based
/2......



- 14 -
agricultural and rural development project, it would not be
easy for the Permanent Secretary (MAWD) to chair all the
SEC's.  I  found  it  more  rational   to   pass   on   this
responsibility to Provincial Permanent Secretaries, but my
views were ignored by the project appraisal team. Their
argument was that the Provincial Permanent Secretaries did
not have capable staff to advise them on the technical
aspects of these projects.
The constraints of shortages of funds and manpower were
identified. However, the pronouncements of government on
agriculture gave so much hope. At the time, Zambia was at
rapport  with  all  bilateral   and   multilateral   donors.
However, the   long  delay  between  project  appraisal  and
start-up meant that the positive situation changed. As
Director  of  Budget at Ministry of Finance between 1981 and
1983, I tried to interpret government's encouragement of
agriculture  by  real incremental allocation of funds to the
sector.
I want to fully subscribe to Paragraph 2.20 on lack of
continuity due to transfers of officers. The cumbersome GRZ
procurement procedures become even more complicated to a
newcomer, and the situation worsens when the newcomer is a
foreigner to the country. The ever changing government
policy  on  input/output marketing  could  not   have   been
identified at project planning. I am happy to note that the
World Bank still insists on a clear policy framework for
even micro or sector projects.
On the matter of the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank,
issues of management cropped up. By June, 1985 when the
Chipata Branch was opened, ZADB operations were showing
serious flaws. The selection of consultants and recruitment
of senior staff showed serious weaknesses in management.
The appointment of a fulltime executive chairman of ZADB cut
off the institution from advice from the MAWD. The Bank was
drifting  away  from  the  operational  procedures  we   had
planned.  Sophisticated  equipment  such  as  computers  and
air-conditioned  vehicles  were  ordered  for  the   Chipata
Branch. I was amazed to learn that the Head Office of ZADB
/3.o.. .



- 15 -
did not know the user to be of the computer data!
Since June, 1987 when Lima Bank took-over the operations of
ZADB, we have improved on the group lending system. We have
no consultants nor expatriates in the bank. We have not
found any worthwhile credit procedures or manuals produced
by the consultants while we cancelled the order for the
computer and sold the airconditioned vehicle. Some senior
staff of ZADB were found inappropriate and laid off. On
this account, I would say that the credit component of EPAD
through ZADB did not achieve much.
Due to rapidly changing government policies, it is difficult
to evaluate the benefits of EPAD. As indicated in the PCR,
the weather and producer prices did improve during the
project period, and these could have been the causes of
increased agricultural production. However, other studies
(IFPRI)  have  indicated  an  increase  in  the  number   of
small-scale farmers willing to adopt modern agricultural
technology.  Unfortunately, all  the  five   factors   which
adversely affected the implementation of EPAD are still with
us. It has become apparent that procedures and policies
have to be in proper place for such a project to succeed,
but these are beyond the realm of planners.
Yours sincerely
LIMA BANK LIMITED
NG'ANDU P MAGANDE
MANAGING DIRECTOR



- 17 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMION
A. PROJECT TIMETABLE
0riutnaL_PLn                  Actual
Identification                    September 1978              September 1978
Preparation                       June 1979                   June 1979
Appraisal                         August-September 1979       August-September 1979
Re-appraisal                      Not foreseen                November 1980
Loan Negotiations                 April 1981                  April 1981
Board Approval                    21 May, 1981                21 May, 1981
Loan Siqning                      23 March, 1981              23 November, 1981
Loan Effectiveness                23 March, 1982              23 June, 1982
Loan Clostng                      30 June, 1987               30 June, 1988
Loan Completion                   31 December, 1987           31 December, 1988
D.  CUMMULATIVE ANUAL DISBURSEMT OF LOAN
Fist~al Years            1Q82   1983   1984   1985   19B6   1987  1 88
Appraisal Estimate
(USS million)          0.25   0.95   3.45   6.05   8.45  11.00  11.00
Actual: USS million        -     0.82   1.73   3.44   4.56   6.28   6.60
Actual as % of
Estimate                -       86      50     57      54     57      60
Date of Final
Disbursement:          Disbursement to close on 31 December 1988. Last
disbursement on 26 April, 1988.



- 18 -
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
... Quantities .v.....
Item_Unlt     shA             Actual
AariQultural Research
- Expatriate staff                No            S                5
- Counterpart research staff    No              5                6
- Staff houses                    No            8                9
- Vehicles                        No            8                8
Agricultgral Extension
- Expatriate staff                No            2                3
- Counterpart extension staff   N1o             2                2
- Other extension staff           No           75               75
- New staff houses                No           54               61
- Upgraded staff houses           No          200              155
- Four-wheel drive vehicles       No           46               32
- Motorcycles                     No          100                33
- Bicycles                        No          340              175
Input Deliry=
= Construction of ECU stores    No             63               63
=          ox LINTCO stores       No           36                0
Agricultuiral Credit
- Credit disbursement             K'000    1,000            14,500
Aaricultural Processing
- Pesticide packing plant         No            1                0
- Cotton seed delinting plant   No              0                 1
- Groundnut shellers              No          100                0
Tsetse Co'ntrol
- Area cleared by spraying        km         1700             2000
Proiect AdministrAtion and
E,valuatian
- Expatriate staff                No            3                3
- Counterpart staff               No            3                 3
- Other staff                     No            8                 8



_ 19 -
D.  COMPARISON OF APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL PROJECT COOS
ALoraisal Estimate              Actual
Research                      2,533       3,166          14,834       3,617
Extension           ~,033                 7,541          15,094       3,129
Input Delivery                1,523       1,904           5,078       1,233
Credit                        2,528       3,173          12,596       2,547
Processing                    1,254       1,567           1,704         711
Tsetse Control                  491         614           1,133         608
Administration                1,794       2,243           7,554       2,049
Contingencies                 7,144       8,930             -           -
Total Costs (including
taxes and duties)          23,310     29,138          57,993      13,894
Total Costs (net)            22.500      28,124             -           -
B.  PROJECT FINNCING
S^ure                      £Plannad                Actual
tSS million    5,     USA million    3,
IBRD                      11.00      39           6.60       48
IFAD                      10.61      38           4.78       34
GRZ                        6.51      23           2.51       18
I/  Converted from SDR to USS at the annual average exchange rate
which prevailed during the loan signing year, for the planned, and
disbursement years, for the actual.



- 20 -
F. MAJOR LOAN COVENANTS
SectLon                Descri2t&o                               Remarks
4.04 (a)      The Borrower r all prepare a proposed             delayed but
consclidafe'e  ction plan and budget not         complied with
I,                     .-'-  . .-'  
4.04 Ib)      The Borrower shall prepare a semi-annual          complied with
progress report.                                 but often were
incomplete
4.05          The Borrower shall establish and maintain         -he account has
a Project Advance Account, and shall             been established
deposit into its funds required by PPS.          -- funds deposited
adequate
4.06          The Borrower shall establish a supervisory
and evaluation committee not later than
31 January 1982 with composition.
powers and responsibilities acceptable to        delayed but
the Bank.                                        complied with
5.02 (a)      The Borrower shall cause PPS to maintain
separate project accounts.                       complied with
5.02 (b)      The Borrower shall have the project
accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.                          complied with
5.04 (i)      The Borrower shall make allocations in
its recurrent budget for extension and
research in Eastern Province which are not    not fully
lower in real terms than those for 1979.         complied with
5.04 (ii)     Commencinig 1 January 1982
The borrower shall gradually transfer from
its development budget to its recurrent
budget all budgetary allocations necessary
to cover operating costs of research,
extension services, tsetse control and           not complied
project management.                              with
5.05          The Borrower shall review producer prices
annually.                                        complied with
5.07          The Borrower shall pay ECU an advance             complied with
service charge before each farming and           but funds were
marketing sea;on sufficient to cover             often insufficient
trading costs.
5.08          The Borrower shall review its fertilizer          partially complied
prices annually in consultation with             with; consultation
the Bank.                                        with Bank was not
carried out as
anticipated



- 21 -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY 8    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   TOTAL
Preappraisal             0.2            62.8   11.2    0.4        -       -       -       -                              74.6
Appraisal                 -               -    99.0   20.1        -       -       -       -                             119.1
Negotiations              -       -       -      2.0   10.2       -       -       -       -           -           -      12.1
Supervision               _-                      -      1.0   22.9   22.9   15.1   27.8   23.6   18.5    9.1   128.4
Other                     -      _       0.0    0.8    0.1       _        -                       -       -       -       1.0
Subtotal              0.2       -    62.9  113.0   31.7   22.9   22.9   15.1   27.6   23.6   18.5    9.1   335.2
G.  tIlSSION DATA
144111ons        MUlith/   "a, of L   an d,ALs   Sseetlizatian      PTrpPne o T              f
L@at    SULAelCo   in fied       rersented                           praobu Trn  L
Identiftcation
(ISRO)         09/78        1          5             A                -      -
Prrparation
CG2Z)          06178        3        77.3          E.A.F.C.           _      _
Apraisal (IERO  0-9/79       6       128.4          E.A.F.C
Re-appraisal
(1RO)         11180        1          5           E
Supervision 1   06181          1         3           E
2   l1/81        3        i8           A.AA.E            2         2       M.P
3   05/82        1        11           A                 2         2       "
4   10/82        3        20           A.EE              1         2        Y
S   07/83        1         6           E J/              2         2        ".F
-        6   03/84         3        32           A.E.E             2         2       M.F.T
7   11184        2        22           A.1               2         3       M.P.T
8   04/as        3        36           A.E.E             -
9   11185        3        24           A.E.E             -
10   04/86        3        33           A.E.E             -                    -
11   09/86        2        18           AjE               -         -
12   04/87        4        16           A.E.E.E           -
13   10187        1         S           E                           -
lI  A * Agrtculturist.   A . Administrative AsSistant;- C - Credit Specialist
E * Economist;  1 * Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
I 1 * Problem free or minor orobleas;  2 * Hoderate problems;
3 a Major problems.
It  1 * ampro,ing;  2 * Stationary;  3 * Deteriorating.
I/  F * Financial;  N * Manaqerial;  t . Technical.



- 23 -                     Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Comments from the International Fund for Agricultural Development!
ZAMBA
Antern Provtb a gricultural Develognt Proiect: IFAD Loan 0662A
1.    Cgoeraae of RgeDrt.  A main om.Lsion in the report is an evaluation
of the impact of the project on the intended beneficiaries. Who were the
beneficiaries? What impact did the project have on their incoeas and
living  conditiona?   Did  the  project  reach  the  poorer  strat,  of
smallholdera? These are questions that merit attention in the report.
This is particularly the case siUce (in par& 2.23) the success of the
monitoring and evalualIo  unilt is cited.  We, bovever, realise that this
field vas not within the scope of the mission as composed.
2.    Inlcators,   The  ERR  is  presented  as  the  main  indicator,
(para 3.6). The estimate is based on maize yield Increases of S-7%, but
It is ackuzowledged that given the increases In producer prices, it in
difficult to separate the contribution of extesion to increased crop
produetion. The section on 'agricultural impact' is, therefore, more of
relevance, but the section is laeking in the detail from which lesson. may
be derived.
3.    StArt u  ogroblms , especially those  related to a lack of uptake of
the World Bank project preparation facility (US$ 975 000), contributed to
the lack of impetus of project in its early stages (although that there
was such a facility Is refered to under para 2.1). Possibly, better use
would have been made of the facility were closer brieflng and follow up
provided to begin with. There is an evident need to have special start up
workshop/courses for staff and local representatives, In order to provide
full familiarisation and integration of effort by separate component
managers.   Clearly  in  the  Zambian  context  study  tours  and  overseas
training are highly sought after (as incentives), and local training
efforts may not be a substitute,  but  rather a compliment.   Courses,
hovever,   on   the   Joint   IFAD/World Bank/AfDB-supported   Agricultural
Management Training Programme for Africa could make an Important
contribution in the start up of such major projects. Another posslbillty
is to include early in the project, consultancy provisions for 'Training
Effectiveness Studies', that look carefully Into skills requirements and
training so that appropriate provisions can be made.
4.   UIn ot Secial- Acgounts.  A Special Account denominated in foretig
currency was introduced in the course of the project.  IFAD's Special
Account was introduced on 28 January 1986 with an authorised allocation Of
SDR 330 000.  There was no disbursement.   The Bank's Special Accounts
(Kwacha 281 000 and US$ 53 233) also were not comitted to begin with
because of slov procedures and presutmably by subsequent loan suspension.
Had such fund8 (and that of the Preparation Facility) been properly used,
Lhere would have been considerable easing of the financial problem.
5/   By their letter dated 30 March 1990.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
- 24 -
5.   itU  eumary para 6; IIAD *6rGOd  mder Its Loan 206 VA: Smallholder
Service. Rehabilitation Project (Telex of President 8 February 1989) to
fiid -ame essential costs of maintaining the extesion, service in the
Eastern Province (U8* 327,10o).
6.    Bureaucratic Delays.  The report indicates In place. the problms of
bureaucratic delay (e.g. It 2, 2.2) that should have been anticipated at
appraisal. Those problems were severe, to the extent of reaching almost a
deadlock on matters of procurement, construction contracts and staffing.
It shaws the needt separately from appraisin a particular area based
project, to evaluate/appraise  the central intitutions controlling such
functions and indeed to render appropriate assistance. This may require
specialist inputs as en adjunct to the appralsal process.
7.    Aali_ultural UZtensLu,  We agree  ful    with para 2.8.  Indeed,
during the appraisal of the Smallholder Services Rehabilitation Project,
enquiry at sub-district level did Indicate a basic problem iu
contact-farmer  selection  without   adequate  representation  from  the
communitio. The scope for better social mobillsatlon at communlty level,
to encourage full participation and benefit from the project, is an aspect
that requires close attention.
8.    Environmntal Issue.s   This aspect Is not included in the report, as
they way relate, for example, to soil and water quality and effects of use
of fertilizer pesticides.
9.    E3MAIAMAILVre.  Para  3.8  questions  the  sustalnabillty  of  both
rescorch and extension, especially In viev of shortage of government
funding. This problem has also been a persistent one during the project
implementation  period.   This has  been  a matter ralsed  by  successive
supervision  misson.   It  has  been  compounded  by  a  succeassion  of
suspensions of ITADs' lending due to arrears In repayments. These matters
bear analysis as to their causes, effects and remedies, In particular to
minimise their future occurrence In the Eastern Province and elsewhere.
10.  I  ItoriAM-and Evaluation*  Under para 2.23, it is stated that the
evaluation  unit  has  been  successfully  undertaking  the monitoring  of
project activities. Since there are few auch successful Qumaples, a more
thorough revlew of this aspect would have been useful with respect to
replication elsewbere.
11.  er c
In parallel with this project experience waS gained through the
"HPIKA" model; It might, as an exercise, be useful to study that model
comparatively in order to derive lesons for possible adoption in later
projects.



Z  A  M    B  I A*-                                                                              ;     _i
EASTERN PROVINCE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   Chi.e)
PROJECT AREA
M.~~~~ (3i'. ^;d,
-   Main roads .   *  /
Secondory rords                                                  <                              r Xten
    -Tra- T-ks
-       Ri Riners                                                               C   h   a        a                               .
900-  Ievoat,on contours in n5tCrs                                         Muc/                           \ \
@3   Pmue+|)                                                      (>         D-i  s  t JrD      c  t
@    District heodquarers                                         (                   \Choma
0    Other to*s s                                                         u                                J
Dist-rct bor,ndaries                                                   -.             Teerbe kae'etelel
.__ninb.....Piadinbam,drne
Issernational boundories
N  O R  T HERN               C     i    n             c 
KILOMETERS 0  ,  20    4,0  o       80      00
MILESO                     d'bt
t~~    /  t 1/>  1 4-- s                         jLifundd) 2i
13,-
P  R 0                I                  etCNo  C E-                                                                            Tb/cg 
Di~~(                                     ) st'    it r | cd,Z                             ,. '-<
~~~~~ o- M O                                   A        BI         U \        Xes 
I e A                                                                                       NA LA WI
S N                                         it    S: ~~~yi.. 
EjEj    loo   te ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ c  iSo  60. F r ictus C it ri r et    c E ci  err    S,dcs niiianFlM   Fn  Cac ernS    ra crn  ROT7m r  SwAM181A  ¶ZM ^ W   ' 
IIN>5^ _____________v_  ___  _ior rcrpean: rJrruhr"fZ | Fo7ssArANANY J-
3i~~                           _________M__Z_A_M___I_Q_ E          A rO Ak



