Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2899-ZA
ZAMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may .be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =   Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25                 =   K 1.00
US$1.00                =   K 0.80
US$1,000                =   K 800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)      =   0.39 inches
1 meter (m)            =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) 2     =   0.62 miles
1 square meter (m )    =   10.76 sq2 ft.
1 hectare (ha)         =   10,000 m   =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)        =   2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =   1,000 kg = 2,204 lb
1 liter (1)            =   0.26 U.S. gallon = 2.1 pints
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFC     - Agricultural Finance Company
CARO    -  Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CFC     -  Cattle Finance Company
CSB     -  Cold Storage Board
DBZ     -  Development Bank of Zambia
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture
DPB     -  Dairy Produce Board
ECU     -  Eastern Province Co-operative Union
FI      -  Farm Institute
FTC     -  Farmer Training Center
GRZ     - Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IERR    -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
LINTCO  - Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MCC     -  Member of Central Committee
NAMB    - National Agricultural Marketing Board
NRDC    - Natural Resources Development College
PAO     -  Provincial Agricultural Officer
PCU     -  Provincial Cooperative Unions
PCW     -  Provincial Commissioner of Works
PDC     - Provincial Development Committee
PEMO    - Provincial Extension Management Officer
PPS     - Provincial Permanent Secretary
RDC     -  Rural Development Corporation
RDSB    - Rural Development Studies Bureau
RMEA    -  Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
SEC     -  Supervisory and Evaluation Committee
VEW     -  Village Extension Worker
ZADB    -  Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZSIC    -  Zambia State Insurance Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND
A.    The Project ........................................                  1
B.    Economic Setting ...................................                 1
C.   Agricultural Performance ...........................                  2
D.    Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy  ...                3
E.    Agricultural Services ..............................                 3
F.   Agricultural Pricing Policy ........................                  8
G.   Previous Bank Group Assistance .....................                  9
II.   EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.    Provincial and District Administrations  ....           ........    10
B.   Lint Company of Zambia .............................                 11
C.    Zambia Agricultural Development Bank ....             ...........   11
D.    Eastern Province Co-operative Union ....             ............   13
III.    THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Physical ...........................................                 13
B.    Infrastructure and Social Services ....             .............   14
C.    Socio-economic Characteristics .....................                14
D.   Marketed Agricultural Production ....              ...............   15
E.    Agricultural Services ..............................                16
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.   General Description ................................                 20
B.   Detailed Features ..................................                 21
C.   Project Costs ......................................                 28
D.    Financing ..........................................                30
E.    Procurement ........................................                31
F.   Disbursements  ......................................                32
G.    Accounts and Audit .................................                33
H.    Environmental Impact ...............................                33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of J. Mullan, D.H. van der Sluijs and B. Zegge (IBRD) and D. Bradfield,
R. Hoover and C. Morris (Consultants) which visited Zambia in August/
September 1979. In view of changes made by the Government in the
structure of agricultural marketing, input delivery and of public salaries
and wages, Mr. Zegge visited Zambia to reappraise those parts of the Project
affected by these changes in November 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................    33
A.   Project Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring
and  Reporting   ....................................    33
B.   Project Implementation .............................    34
C.   Staffing   ...........................................      36
D.   Evaluation   .........................................      37
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........................    38
A.   Technical Packages and Yields ......................    38
B.   Cropping Patterns ..................................    39
C.   Production Increases ...............................    40
D.   Markets   ............................................      41
E.   Producer Prices ....................................        41
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................        42
A.   Effects on Farmers .................................    42
B.   Financial Effects on ECU ...........................    44
C.   Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow ....      .........    45
D.   Foreign Exchange Implications ......................    45
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................    46
XI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................    48
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart C-1     Schedule of Implementation
Chart C-2     Organizations Involved in Project Implementation
Table T-1     Marketed Agricultural Production
Table T-2     Crop Producer Prices
Table T-3     Eastern Province Farm Size Distribution
Table T-4     Marketed Crop Production in Eastern Province
Table T-5     Phasing of Project Costs
Table T-6     Project Costs:  Agricultural Research
Table T-7     Project Costs:  Extension
Table T-8     Project Costs:  Agricultural Input Delivery
Table T-9     Project Costs:  Agricultural Credit
Table T-10    Project Costs:  Agricultural Processing
Table T-11    Project Costs:  Tsetse Control
Table T-12    Project Costs:  Project Administration and Evaluation



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
Table T-13    Transfer of Operating Costs. to Recurrent Budget
Table T-14    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table T-15    Recoimmended Technical Packages and Estimated Yields
Table T-16    Timing of Labor Inputs for Major Crops
Table T-17    Assumed Labor Utilization in Farm Models
Table T-18    Incremental Crop Production
Table T-19    Tsetse Control:  Financial and Economic Benefits
Table T-20    Financial and Economic Price of Seed Cotton
Table T-21    Financial and Economic Prices of Sunflower and Groundnuts
Table T-22    Financial and Economic Prices for Maize and Beef
Table T-23    Summary Hectare Budgets:  Maize
Table T-24    Summary Hectare Budget:  Cotton, Sunflower, Groundnut
Table T-25    Effects on Farm Incomes
Table T-26    Government Cash Flow
Table T-27    Foreign Exchange Flows
Table T-28    Economic Analysis
2.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
Map IBRD 14672 - Project Area
Map IBRD 14673 - Population and Rainfall
Map IBRD 14674 - Agricultural Camps (Existing and Proposed)






I. BACKGROUND
A. THE PROJECT
1.01      An agricultural project in the Eastern Province was first conceived
by the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) in 1977 as a means to raise
the production by smallholders of seed cotton, particularly in the Luangwa
Valley but also on the plateau. During the preparation of the cotton project,
however, it became clear that a project focused solely on cotton development
would not be economically attractive and would, as a single crop project, face
unacceptably high risks of failure if adverse cotton prices led farmers to
switch to the production of other crops. The Eastern Province Agricultural
Development Project (the Project) was identified by a Bank Project Identifi-
cation Mission which visited Zambia in September 1978, at the request of GRZ,
to identify, on a preliminary basis, about five projects for possible Bank
Group financing in the period 1980-1983. The Project was prepared by staff of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) in Lusaka, assisted
by staff of MAWD departments in the Eastern Province, staff of the various
parastatals involved and by the staff of the Eastern Province Co-operative
Union (ECU). Assistance in preparation was also provided by the Bank's
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA). Project preparation was completed
by June 1979, and the Project was appraised in August/September of that year.
However, due to changes initiated by GRZ in the structure of agricultural
marketing, input delivery and public service salaries and wages, a reappraisal
of these aspects had to be undertaken in November 1980. In order to minimize
Project complexity and possible management problems, the Project includes
components intended to address only the key constraints to agricultural devel-
opment. A component to strengthen animal health services in the Province,
which would otherwise have been included in the proposed Project, is being
financed by a bilateral donor.
B. Economic Setting
1.32      Zambia is a land-locked country with a surface area of about 750,000
km . The population in 1979 was estimated at 5.8 million, growing at an annual
rate of over 3%. Zambia is one of the most urbanized countries in Africa,
with about 40% of the population living in cities and towns, predominantly
along the line-of-rail which links the Copperbelt with Livingstone, via Lusaka.
The urban population has been growing over the past decade at an annual rate
of over 6%. The overall rural population density is low, only 4.6 persons per
km . However, the quality of the soils is not even, and the rural population
density is substantially higher in the Southern, Central and Eastern Provinces,
where the better agricultural soils are found. There are no areas where land
pressure is a serious problem.
1.03      Zambia's GNP in 1978 (at current prices) is estimated at K 2,024
million (US$2.5 billion) equivalent to K 361 (US$446) on a per capita basis.
Between 1965 and 1976, real GNP increased at an average annual rate of about
3.1%. Since 1976, the mining sector (traditionally the dominant sector of
the economy) has been in a protracted slump as a result of depressed copper
export prices, and, as a consequence, GNP declined in real terms by 4% between
1976 and 1978; preliminary figures indicate a further fall of at least 5% in
1979. GRZ revenues and export earnings have fallen correspondingly, and this
in turn has resulted in serious balance of payments problems (with deficits,
on current account, of K 148 million, K 258 million and K 248 million in years
1976, 1977 and 1978 respectively) and cutbacks in GRZ recurrent expenditures.



C. Agricultural Performance
1.04      The agricultural sector in Zambia is markedly dualistic.  On the one
hand, there is a relatively small modern sector of about 800 heavily-capital-
ized farmers (mainly of European origin) and a small number of state farms
and ranches, all of which farm State Land on a leasehold basis along the line-
of-rail. On the other hand, there are about 600,000 farm families on land
held under traditional tenure, the majority of whom cultivate less than 2 ha
using hand- or ox-cultivation and are oriented towards subsistence production.
This extreme dualism has been modified in recent years by two developments.
Firstly, a number of medium-scale Zambian farmers (Temergent farmers'), also
along the line of rail, have developed mechanized farms geared to the commer-
cial market. Secondly, an increasing number of small farmers, particularly in
the Southern, Central and Eastern Provinces, have begun to produce marketable
crop surpluses.
1.05      Although agriculture provides a livelihood for about 60% of Zambia's
population, it accounted for only 17% of GNP in 1978. In real terms, agricul-
tural output has grown only at an average annual rate of 3% over the period
1970-78, somewhat less than the rate of population growth, and since 1976
overall agricultural production has declined. The development of agricultural
exports has historically been very limited. Tobacco and confectionary ground-
nuts are the only regular exports, but they account for less than 1% of total
exports. In some years of surplus production, limited quantities of maize
have been exported to neighboring countries. Imports of agricultural commodi-
ties have shown an increasing trend during the 1970's, reaching K 48 million
(about 9% of total imports) in 1978. The major items imported have been
cereals (mainly wheat and rice) which accounted for about 22% of 1978 agri-
cultural imports, dairy products (9%) and vegetable oils and oilseed cakes
(32%).
1.06      Marketed agricultural production in the years 1969-79 of the major
agricultural commodities produced in Zambia is shown in Annex 1, Table T-1.
Marketed production of maize, by far the most important crop, increased from
an average of 260,000 m tons per annum in 1969-71 to 750,000 m tons in 1976.
However, production has since fallen off dramatically, despite higher prices,
as a result of a combination of poor rains, late fertilizer imports and lack
of machinery and spare parts in the commercial sector resulting from foreign
exchange shortages. The very low production levels in 1979 have resulted in
the need for maize imports of about 300,000 m tons in order to meet domestic
demand. Sugar cane production (all from large estates) has increased steadily,
in line with local demand. Marketed production of tobacco (flue-cured and
burley), groundnuts and beef cattle have stagnated, while milk production has
declined. Production of sunflower seeds and soya beans has increased since
1970, but remains small in absolute terms. Seed cotton production declined
from 1971 through 1974, but has since increased dramatically, particularly in
the 1978/79-1979/80 crop seasons as a result of better prices. Commercial and
emergent farmers account for about 40% of official sales of maize, over 90% of
tobacco production and virtually all official sales of wheat, milk and pigs.
The smallholder sector now accounts for about 60% of maize sales, 85% of
official sales of sunflower seed, and nearly all sales of rice, seed cotton
and groundnuts.



D. Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
1.07      GRZ has, in its statements of development objectives, consistently
given priority to rural development in general and to increased agricultural
production in particular, emphasizing the achievement of higher levels of
self-sufficiency in staple foods, the provision of raw materials for domestic
agro-processing industries, the exploitation of export potentials and hence an
increase in rural incomes and levels of living resulting in a reduction in
the urban-rural disparity.
1.08      The priority accorded to agriculture and rural development has been
reflected, particularly in recent years, in the proportion of the GRZ develop-
ment budget allocated to agriculture which, after declining from 20% in 1970
to only 11% in 1974, has since risen to over 30% in 1978 and 1979. The re-
sources have been invested in parastatal production enterprises (which have
proved to be inefficient) and in a number of highly subsidized smallholder
development schemes (mainly involving resettlement) which have benefitted a
few farmers at a high cost and which have produced only small returns in terms
of increased production. GRZ now fully recognizes the importance of improving
the efficiency and output of the smallholder sub-sector, and is according
priority to investment in much broader-based regional agricultural and rural
development projects, of which the Eastern Province Agricultural Development
Project is the first. In recent years the Bank has undertaken a number of
studies, including a credit study (1979) agricultural pricing policy studies
(1978 and 1980) and an agricultural recurrent study (1980), which have clearly
identified the major sectoral constraints on agricultural development in
Zambia. Similar projects are currently being prepared, for external donor
financing, in the Southern, Western, North-Western and Northern Provinces of
Zambia.
1.09      The agricultural sector has not, however, been allocated recurrent
budgetary resources commensurate with its stated importance. MAWD receives
only about 3% of the recurrent GRZ budget to finance its support services to
the agricultural sector. These allocations have during the 1970's failed to
keep pace with inflation. Furthermore, an increasing proportion of these
funds have been earmarked for personal emoluments, and the sums available to
meet other operating costs have become increasingly less than adequate to
enable MAWD staff to perform their duties effectively. Through its sector
work program for FY80 and FY81, the Bank has undertaken a study of the
recurrent budgetary resources required to enable full and effective utiliza-
tion of staff and the provision of services to farmers by MAWD for the period
1980-85. This has led to GRZ agreeing to review MAWD's current programs and
to strengthen MAWD's capacity for planning and policy analysis with the view
to rationalizing MAWD's overall allocation of budgetary resources in the long-
run.
E. Agricultural Services
General
1.10      The agricultural sector in Zambia is serviced almost entirely
by government or parastatal organizations, of which the main ones are MAWD and



- 4 -
its departments, training institutes and parastatals, most notably, the
Provincial Cooperative Unions (PCU), National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMB), Cold Storage Board (CSB), Dairy Produce Board (DPB) and Rural Develop-
ment Corporation (RDC) and its subsidiaries. A few services are supplied by
private sector firms; these include machinery and equipment suppliers and
suppliers of agricultural chemicals (other than fertilizers).
1.11      MAWD is headed by a Permanent Secretary, assisted by two Under-
Secretaries (for Planning and for Administration) and six Assistant Secre-
taries, and comprises three service departments (dealing with Finance, Per-
sonnel and Administration), a Planning Unit, five major operating departments
(the Departments of Agriculture, Veterinary and Tsetse Control, Marketing and
Cooperatives, Water Development and the National Farming Information Services)
and a number of training institutions (para 1.15).  MAWD headquarters is
responsible for overall policy formulation, planning and administration, but
the field operations of MAWD departments are directed by Provincial Agricul-
tural Officers (PAO-s) in each province.  As a result of an acute shortage
of qualified Zambian professional staff, staff shortages exist in all MAWD
departments, despite heavy reliance on expatriate staff employed under con-
tract. The effective provision of agricultural services is further con-
strained by the shortage of recurrent budgetary resources (para 1.08).
Agricultural Research
1.12      Most agricultural research in Zambia is carried out by the Research
Branch of the Department of Agriculture of MAWD. The Research Branch has its
Headquarters and central research station at Mount Makulu near Lusaka, and
operates, in addition, 9 regional research stations (with a total of 16 asso-
ciated sub-stations) a national irrigation and an animal husbandry research
station. These research facilities are relatively well furnished with office
space, laboratory space, housing and agricultural land. The Research Branch
has specialist sections covering plant breeding, plant protection, weed con-
trol, agricultural chemistry, soil science, entomology, pasture ecology and
research, farm mechanization, tree crops research, microbiology and bacteri-
ology, farm management, stored products, irrigation and animal husbandry. In
order to improve coordination, multidisciplinary teams are now being formed,
to address the problems of particular farming systems (e.g. in high rainfall
areas) or of a group of related crops (e.g. oilseeds). There is also an
increasing emphasis on the problems of smallholder farmers, who were neglected
in the past when research focused more on mechanized farming. In addition to
the Research Branch, the University of Zambia and the National Council for
Scientific Research undertake limited research projects, and MAWD's Department
of Veterinary and Tsetse Control operates a veterinary research station.
Overall, agricultural research in Zambia is constrained by the shortage of
funds and by a lack of staff continuity, since over 70% of professional
research officers are expatriates serving only on short-term contracts.
Agricultural Extension
1.13      Agricultural extension services for livestock and crops other than
tobacco (for which the Tobacco Board of Zambia is responsible) are provided by
the Extension Branch of MAWD's Department of Agriculture, and are organized
on a provincial and district basis, under the PAO in each Province. There



are about 80 professional officers (graduates), about 120 technical officers
(generally diploma holders) and over 600 junior technical officers and agri-
cultural assistants (certificate-level staff). In addition, there are about
800 agricultural and commodity demonstrators, who have received only short-
course training. In total there are thus about 1600 extension staff, or one
to every 350 farm families on average. Even excluding the partially trained
demonstrators, this ratio, (which rises rises to about 1:700), remains reason-
able. However, many of the professional officers are expatriates, also on
short-term contracts, with little previous local experience. Many technical
and junior technical staff fill specialist posts at provincial level, leaving
lower caliber staff without adequate supervision to contact farmers. Field
staff do not work to specific programs. Recurrent funds for travelling on
duty have been so seriously curtailed that many officers are virtually desk-
bound. Low pay and difficult living conditions have lowered morale. This
latter problem has now been partly addressed since, from the beginning of
1980, the pay of commodity demonstrators has been raised by over 50 percent,
to K 70 per month. Nevertheless, the extension service has been and remains
relatively ineffective, despite the existence, for many parts of Zambia, of
attractive, proven, technical packages.
Animal Health Services
1.14      The Department of Veterinary and Tsetse Control in MAWD, through its
30 graduates, 60 diplomates and supporting field staff provides nationwide
dipping and veterinary services to farmers, and controls tsetse fly through
the maintenance of holding lines and through periodic spraying campaigns. The
major constraint is shortage of drugs and dipping materials, and lack of
recurrent operating funds.
Agricultural Training
1.15      The University of Zambia conducts agricultural degree courses.  The
Natural Resources Development College (NRDC) offers a three year diploma course
in agriculture, with an annual output of about 20 diplomates. Two Colleges of
Agriculture (at Monze and at Mpika) run two year certificate level courses,
producing in total about 150 certificate holders annually. In addition, the
Zambia Institute of Animal Health produces 20-30 veterinary assistants (cer-
tificate-holders) annually. There are 8 Farm Institutes (FI) (one in each
province except Lusaka) which run induction courses for commodity demonstra-
tors and about fifty Farm Training Centers (FTC) (about one in each district),
which run courses for farmers, women's groups, cooperatives, etc. These FTC's
are presently operating at about 20% of capacity, and studies have shown that
FTC courses have little or no impact on farmers attending them.
Credit
1.16      Four commercial banks each have 15%-30% of their loan portfolios
(about K 17-20 million in total) in agriculture, mostly as seasonal credit to
commercial farmers. The Zambia State Insurance Company (ZSIC) and the Devel-
opment Bank of Zambia (DBZ, which is supported by IBRD through Loan 1210-ZA)
are both engaged in medium- and long-term lending to larger farmers. The
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) (paras. 2.11-2.14) which is a sub-
sidiary of RDC, is the only significant source of medium-term and seasonal



credit to smallholders. Interest rates on agricultural credit are in the
range 8%-12% (somewhat below rates in other sectors, which are in the iO-12%
range), negative in real terms in recent years, when inflation has been 15-20%
annually. An interest rate ceiling of 12% on all domestic lending is currently
imposed by the Bank of Zambia. A new credit institution, the Zambia Agricul-
tural Development Bank (ZADB), has recently been established by GRZ, and it
is intended that ZADB should replace AFC and the Cattle Finance Corporation
(CFC) which is also an RDC subsidiary and which lends only for livestock
production. Requests for credit continue substantially in excess of available
loan funds. Repayment rates have deteriorated in recent years for a variety
of reasons, including inadequate staffing, insufficient field supervision
coupled with rapid expansion in lendings.
Input Supply
1.17      Fertilizer.  NAMB (paras 1.22-1.23) is the sole importer of fertilizer
in Zambia, while PCU's purchase from NAMB and distribute fertilizers in
the provinces. Fertilizer use in Zambia increased from about 90,000 m tons in
the 1971/72 crop season to over 175,000 m tons in the 1977/78 season. Over
200,000 m tons of fertilizer were ordered for the 1978/79 crop season, but
delivery of imports was late, and as a result only about 120,000 m tons is
estimated to have been used. All fertilizers except ammonium nitrate (which
accounts for about 10-15% of fertilizer consumption) are imported. In common
with other agricultural inputs, fertilizer prices charged to farmers are
uniform throughout Zambia. Since 1971/72, farmers prices have been less than
the landed price of fertilizer, and GRZ has reimbursed NAMB for the difference
between the landed price and NAMB selling price, and for all of NAMB's costs
of handling and distribution. Since January 1981 the PCU's have been made
responsible for the distribution of fertilizers in the provinces and shall
receive restitution similar to NAMB's. Further, the increases in the price
charged to farmers were, until the 1979/80 crop season, much less than the
increases in the landed cost of fertilizers. As a result, the cost to GRZ of
these subsidies rose sharply from about K 3 million in 1971/72 to over K 31
million in the 1978/79 crop season, by which time the price charged to farmers
for fertilizer was only about 60% of landed cost. GRZ has now agreed in
principle to raise the uniform national price over a period of years to equal
landed cost, and as a first step, increased fertilizer prices for the 1979/80
crop season by about 30%. The IMF and GRZ are currently engaged in a dialogue
that might lead to the elimination of fertilizer subsidy over an agreed period.
1.18      Seeds.  Improved seeds in Zambia are produced by commercial farmers
under the supervision of staff of the Research Branch, which certifies seed
prior to distribution. Zambia is generally self-sufficient in the production
of seed for the major agricultural crops except sunflower and soya beans,
although adverse weather conditions have forced the importation of substantial
quantities of seed maize in some years. Vegetable seeds are not produced in
Zambia. NAMB used to be responsible for the import, distribution and sale of
seeds, which were sold at a uniform national price until December 1980.
The establishment of a Seed Company in Zambia have been recently finalized in
which there is a substantial private shareholding, and will receive technical
assistance from a swedish seed company and will take over from the Research
Branch the supervision of growers and the certification of seed. It is
intended that such a Seed Company would, in due course, expand its activities
to cover vegetable seed.



1.19      Agricultural chemicals.  Insecticides, herbicides, fungicides and
disinfectants for use in the commercial sector are imported and sold by pri-
vate sector enterprises, usually branches or agents of major international
chemical companies. NAMB imports and distributes agricultural chemicals for
general use in the smallholder sector. The Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO;
paras 2.06-2.08) which purchased cotton pesticides from NAMB during the
1978/79 and 1979/80 seasons, intends to import these chemicals on its own
account for the 1980/81 crop season.
1.20      Agricultural machinery and equipment.  Agricultural machinery
for use in the commercial sector is imported and sold by private sector firms
as well as a parastatal outlet (African Farm Equipment Ltd). As a result of
foreign exchange constraints in recent years, there has been a shortage of
equipment and particularly of spare parts. Ox-drawn equipment and spares and
hand-tools are imported by NAMB and distributed by PCU-s. These were in short
supply between 1976 and late 1979, but adequate supplies are now beginning to
arrive in Zambia. All such equipment is presently being imported (mainly from
India) but a local manufacturing firm (supported by the Bank through its line
of credit to DBZ) has recently begun to manufacture ox ploughs locally.
Marketing
1.21      Agricultural marketing in Zambia is dominated by parastatals.
LINTCO purchases cotton from farmers, using marketing unions as agents in
Eastern and Southern Provinces, but directly in other areas. The Tobacco
Board of Zambia (TBZ) buys tobacco. ECU (paras. 2.14-2.15) is the sole
official purchaser of maize, and the buyer of last resort for all other major
crops, including groundnuts, sunflower, wheat and rice in the Eastern Province.
NAMB is responsible for intra-provincial trade in these crops. The CSB
purchases cattle and pigs, in competition with private butchers, and the DPB
purchases fresh milk from producers close to the main line-of-rail markets.
In all cases, both the buying prices and selling prices are controlled by GRZ
(paras. 1.24-1.27) and the resultant trading margins are inadequate to cover
costs, so that these enterprises operate at a loss. These parastatals all
suffer from a lack of qualified and experienced staff, and as a result their
operations are relatively high cost and inefficient. GRZ has stated that
parastatals should operate profitably, but adequate measures to achieve this
have not yet been taken.
1.22      NAMB was created in 1969 as a statutory body by the merger of two
previous marketing organizations. Until December 31, 1980, NAMB enjoyed a
legal monopoly on the purchase, sale, import, export and storage of maize, and
was also the residual buyer of a wide range of controlled crops, the most
important of which were groundnuts, sunflower seed, and beans. However
effective January 1981 this legal monopoly has been transferred to the PCU's
and NAMB will simply deal in intra-provincial trade in these commodities. In
addition to its crop purchase activities, NAMB has and will in future retain a
monopoly on the import, of fertilizers; while the PCU's would distribute and
sell fertilizers and other agricultural supplies and implements to farmers.



- 8 -
1.23      NAMB's buying and selling prices for virutally all of the items
handled (both produce and inputs) are fixed by GRZ (paras. 1.24-1.27). These
prices have consistently been set by GRZ at levels which have resulted in
NAMB being unable to cover its costs of operations. The resultant losses are
covered by GRZ subsidy. These subsidy payments wre K 44 million in 1978 and
are estimated at K 68 million in 1979. GRZ has taken steps to reduce these
subsidies by eliminating price differentials on maize, though such differentials
still remain on imported fertilizers (para. 1.17). The handling subsidy on
maize continues to exist. Again the IMF is seeking agreement with GRZ to
eliminate this subsidy element over an agreed period.
F. Agricultural Pricing Policy
Producer Prices
1.24      It is GRZ policy to set producer prices for a wide range of commodi-
ties (including maize, cotton, groundnuts, sunflower, soya beans, rice and
wheat). Prices are reviewed annually by the Planning Unit of MAWD, which
formulates recommendations for Cabinet, which takes the final decision. The
principal criterion used in establishing producer prices is to ensure that
farmers cover their costs of production and obtain a reasonable profit, although
other factors such as export or import parity prices, the desire for self-
sufficiency and relative crop profitability are also considered. For crops
produced by large commercial farmers (maize, wheat, sunflower, soya bean) the
objective in recent years has been to set prices at a level which would give a
rate of return of 8%-12% on capital employed in crop production.
1.25      Since 1973/74, prices have been set on a uniform national basis,
so that the marketing agents must purchase at a price which does not vary
with the distance from the final market. Producer prices are also uniform
throughout the marketing season, and thus do not reflect seasonal variations
in the cost of supply or storage. The objective of this policy is to promote
agricultural development in the remote regions of Zambia by nullifying the
effects of transport cost. The policy has a major disadvantage in that it
is likely to lead to sub-optimal allocation of production factors.
1.26      Producer prices for the major crops are shown for the crop seasons
1974/75 to 1979/80, in Annex 1, Table T-2. Nominal producer prices have in-
creased substantially over the period, for example by 134% for maize, 44% for
cotton, 94% for groundnuts and 74% for sunflower. However, a recent consultant
study 1/ carried out for the Bank has indicated that Zambian farmers have con-
sistently received lower crop prices than if they had received export or import
parity prices. Although the extent of this implicit taxation (which averaged
25% during the period 1965/66 to 1974/75) has decreased over the past three
years as a result of increased producer prices, it still averaged 16% in the
1978/79 crop season.
1/   Zambian Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Policy by Doris Jansen Dodge,
April 1979.



-9-
Consumer Prices
1.27      It is also GRZ policy to control the wholesale and retail prices
of most agricultural commodities, with the exception of fruit, vegetables,
poultry and eggs. The principal effect of these price controls has been
that consumer prices have not risen in line with producer prices, so that
consumers (who are mainly in urban areas) have been subsidized. The cost to
GRZ of these subsidies has increased rapidly in recent years. For example,
for the 1977/78 crop season, the subsidy on maize sales cost GRZ about K 26
million. In 1978/ 79, the cost of this subsidy had risen to about K 33
million, as the producer price rose from K 6.80 to K 9.00 per bag. GRZ did
raise the maize consumer price by about 60% in 1979 and by another 33% in late
1980, but even this has not eliminated the consumer subsidy. Both the Bank
and IMF have been developing a dialogue on agricultural pricing with GRZ over
the past two years. The GRZ has agreed to include in the preparation of
Southern Province Agricultural Development Project proposed for IDA financing,
of the provision of technical assistance to the Planning Unit of MAWD, to
strengthen its ability to review and formulate pricing policies.
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.28      The Bank Group has made five loans (two for industrial forestry, one
for livestock development and two for tobacco production) and one credit (for
coffee production). The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at GRZ request
because of pricing problems and poor management. The first forestry project
was well executed, and completed a year ahead of schedule. The second indus-
trial forestry project is proceeding satisfactory. The commercial tobacco
farming project was completed, but was unsuccessful in meeting its goal of
successfully training and establishing Zambian commercial tobacco farmers and
hence raising tobacco production. The family farming tobacco project has
recently been completed, again, unsuccessfully. The project encountered major
managerial problems and experienced difficulties as a result of tobacco prices
that were unattractive in relation to the price of other crops, particularly
maize. The coffee project has started satisfactorily, although constrained by
shortages of foreign exchange and GRZ funds. Two additional projects, a mixed
farming development project and an Intensive Development Zone project, prepared
with Bank assistance, were withdrawn in 1975 by the Government largely because
it was reluctant to use Bank funds for these projects. Assistance to agricul-
ture has also been provided through projects in other sectors. The Fourth
Education Project, for example, has a major component to strengthen the train-
ing of extension staff and farmers, and a line of credit to the Development
Bank of Zambia has financed the provision of medium and long-term finance to
commercial farmers and to a firm of agricultural machinery manufacturers. The
Bank has also assisted GRZ in analyzing the problems and potentials of the
rural and agricultural sector, through a sector survey in 1975, an identifi-
cation report in 1978, a review of agricultural pricing and marketing policy
in 1978, agricultural credit in 1979, and of a recurrent budgetary study in
1980.



- 10 -
1.29      The lessons learned from previous Bank involvement in Zambian agri-
culture have been incorporated into the proposed Project. A PCR for the
Family Farming Project (Loan Number 882-ZA) is currently under preparation.
Accordingly, the present Project addresses the problems of severe financial
constraints (including local cost financing) and of improving the delivery of
basic services (research, extension, input delivery, etc.). It stresses the
need to strengthen through technical assistance the agencies (which are all,
with the exception of ZADB, already fully established) that would be involved
in Project implementation.
II. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Provincial and District Administrations
2.01      The Eastern Province is one of Zambia-s nine provinces and contains
six of Zambia's 54 districts. The political head of each Province is a Member
of the Central Committee (MCC) of Zambia's sole political party, the United
National Independence Party (UNIP) who is an appointee of the President and
has cabinet status. The Provincial Administration in each Province is headed
by a Provincial Permanent Secretary (PPS) who is responsible to a Minister of
State in the Prime Minister's Office. At the district level, a District
Governor (a Presidential appointee) heads both the administrative and the
party organizations. All major departments of GRZ central ministries and
parastatals are represented at Provincial and District level. Since 1972,
GRZ has been progressively decentralizing decision-making authority to the
Provincial level, and this is continuing. While the PPS has direct control
over GRZ staff in the province with respect to discipline and general adminis-
tration, provincial staff are still responsible on technical matters to their
central ministries. Each Province has a direct allocation from the Develop-
ment Budget for the implementation of Provincial projects. In 1979, the
Eastern Province's allocation was K 950,000, of which about 40% was for
the agricultural sector. Investments that are part of a national program are
controlled by the relevant central ministry. It is the stated intention of
GRZ that the proportion of development funds directly controlled by the Pro-
vincial Administration should increase over time. Recurrent funds for the
operation of GRZ provincial departments are channelled through the central
ministries. The PPS receives directly the funds required for operation of
the Provincial Administration, which in 1979 amounted to K 688,000. Most
provincial departments have staff that are inadequately trained and super-
vised, and most vehicles are old and of limited use.  Over 80% of the re-
current budget is allocated to salaries of staff who thus lack sufficient
complementary resources to perform effectively.  The provision of the train-
ing, vehicles, programming and supervision necessary to transform existing
staff into effective agents of development is a high priority.
2.02      A Provincial Development Committee (PDC) is the main instrument for
horizontal coordination and communication within each Province. Each PDC,
which is chaired by the MCC, comprises all provincial department heads, heads
of parastatal organizations and Members of Parliament with constituencies



- 11 -
within the Province. At District level, a similar role is fulfilled by Dis-
trict Development Committees, chaired by the District Governor and comprising
all district departmental heads, district heads of parastatals and Rural Coun-
cil chairmen and secretaries. Rural Councils play a limited role in adminis-
tration, having some responsibilities for revenue collection and the mainte-
nance of minor public works, such as local roads. The traditional structure
of chiefs and headmen has little formal authority, but can be a strong source
of informal leadership at the grass roots level, especially through its con-
trol of land. Chiefs are generally appointed members of rural councils.
B. The Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO)
2.03      LINTCO was established in 1978 as a company, wholly owned by GRZ,
charged with responsibility for developing cotton production in Zambia, pro-
cessing seed cotton and marketing lint and cotton seed. LINTCO took over from
NAMB the operation of two cotton ginneries (in Lusaka and Chipata). For the
1980/81 season and thereafter, LINTC0 will take over from NAMB responsibility
for procurement of cotton inputs (primarily insecticides and sprayers) although
these will continue to be sold to farmers through ECU's existing network of
depots. In the Eastern Province, ECU will continue to purchase cotton on
behalf of LINTCO, and extension services to farmers will continue to be pro-
vided by the provincial extension services. In Central and Southern Provinces,
however, where LINTCO's operations are to be strengthened under a Project
financed by the European Development Fund (EDF), it is possible that LINTCO
would operate some markets and employ some of its own extension staff, although
the division of responsibilities between the various agencies has not yet been
finalized.
2.04      LINTCO is controlled by a Board of eight Directors, chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, MAWD, and comprising representatives of the Ministries
of Finance and Commerce, Industry and Foreign Trade, NAMB and four farmers
representatives from the major producing areas. LINTCO½s chief executive is
the General Manager. At headquarters level, LINTCO is organized into five
departments - Finance, Personnel, Cotton Development, Rural Marketing and
Processing. Field operations are under the control of these Provincial Man-
agers, who are assisted by Provincial Marketing Managers. LINTCO presently
has a permanent staff of 140.
2.05      Audited accounts for LINTCO's first year, that ending March 31,
1979, are available. In that year, LINTCO made a satisfactory profit before
taxation of K 378,000 on a turnover of K 4.4 million and total assets employed
of K 2.5 million.
C. Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
2.06      The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) was established by
legislation passed by the Zambian Parliament in March 1979. It is intended
that ZADB would take over the functions of AFC (paras 2.09-2.11 below give



- 12 -
further details of this organization) and the smaller CFC, and it is expected
also to take over most of the facilities and staff of AFC. The reasons cited
by GRZ for the replacement of AFC are the restricted access of this organiza-
tion to financial resources (AFC could accept capital and loan funds only from
GRZ) and the recent deterioration in AFC loan recovery rates, which factors
together have forced a sharp cutback in loan disbursements. To overcome the
first of these problems, ZADB is enpowered to accept both local and interna-
tional equity capital from any source, to accept local deposits of funds by
investors and to have access to Bank of Zambia rediscounting facilities.
2.07      ZADB is not yet operational.  A Board Chairman and two of nine
directors have been appointed, and efforts are underway to appoint an inter-
nationally-recruited General Manager, probably to be funded from bilateral
aid sources. Commitments of roughly K 25 million in equity contributions
have been reported from various sources, including GRZ, the Zambia National
Provident Fund and the Zambia State Insurance Company. ZADB has an authorized
capital limit of K 75 million.
2.08      AFC  carries out its operations through its main office in Lusaka,
provincial offices in each of the nine provinces and a network of 41 district
offices. AFC employs about 550 staff, of whom 80 are at headquarters, about
200 in provincial offices and about 270 in district offices. ZADB would
selectively take over these physical assets and human resources when it
becomes operational.
2.09      Annual disbursements by AFC averaged about K 8.5 million during the
first four years of operations (1970/71-1973/74), and recoveries averaged
between 85% and 90%. Annual disbursements almost tripled over the next four
years of operations, and reached a level of K 24 million in the 1977/78
season. Recovery rates declined during this period of rapid expansion to a
level of only 40% in 1977/78, and this reduction in available funds forced a
cutback in disbursements to only K 15 million. About 85% of annual disburse-
ments are for seasonal loans. Accordingly ZADB would be expected to draw
some lessons from AFC experience and avoid making similar mistakes.
2.10      Expenses have exceeded income in each year of AFC operations, in
1978 by almost 50%. However, GRZ has made annual grants to AFC to cover the
costs to AFC of maintaining uneconomic district offices, and these grants
have generally enabled AFC to break even before provision for bad debts.
However, as a result of deteriorating loan recoveries, shareholder equity
in AFC declined from K 10-13 million during 1974-77 to K 5 million in 1978.
2.11      Important factors contributing to AFC's weak performance are the
low level of interest rates (AFC charges 7% for block credit and 9% to indi-
viduals), and the fact that AFC handles loans (which are usually smaller than
the break-even size) on an individual basis rather than a group basis. AFC
has also suffered from lack of management continuity and shortcomings in staff
development. In the case of ZADB, these issues would be addressed at the
outset of its operations by the staff provided through the technical assistance
(para. 4.16).



- 13 -
D. The Eastern Province Cooperative Union
2.12      The Eastern Province Cooperative Union (ECU) operates in accordance
with the Cooperative Societies Act of 1970 and a statutory instrument, the
Cooperative Society Rules of 1972. ECU has an annual turnover of K 10-12
million. Its major activity and primary source of income is crop marketing.
ECU is now directly and on its own account responsible in the Eastern Province
for the purchase of maize and other crops, and continues to act as LINTCO's
agent for the purchase of cotton. ECU purchases and exports Chalimbana
confectionary groundnuts on its own account. ECU buys crops through a system
of about 500 seasonal depots operated by its primary societies. Trading
losses resulting from the price framework laid down by GRZ are partly covered
by GRZ subsidy payments; these amounted to K 2.9 million in 1977, and are
estimated at K 1.9 million and K 1.4 million respectively for 1978 and 1979.
As a result of GRZ's poor financial position, payment of these subsidies has
been tardy in recent years, and ECU-s liquidity is strained. ECU obtains its
crop purchase funds through overdrafts from the commercial banking system
guaranteed by GRZ. General shortage of liquidity in the economy during the
past two years has prevented ECU from obtaining adequate crop purchase funds.
For example, in 1979 ECU estimated that K 11 million was required, but only
K 7 million was provided. As a result payments to farmers for produce have
been delayed. In addition to its crop marketing activities, ECU operates two
maize mills within the Province, and a credit scheme. Beginning January
1981, ECU is also directly responsible for the distribution and sale of
fertilizers and agricultural implements to farmers in the Province. It also
gives group credit to farmers through its affiliated primary cooperative
societies.
2.13      ECU has a 15 man Board of Directors elected for three year terms
by the 40,000 or so members of ECU's 63 affiliated cooperative societies.
ECU-s chief executive is the General Manager. At its headquarters in Chipata,
ECU is organized into five departments - Marketing, Cooperative Development,
Engineering, Finance and Personnel. There are seven district offices. ECU has
about 210 permanent employees, and employs a further 1,200 seasonal staff for
crop purchase. The Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) has been
financing three technical assistance staff who work on cooperative development.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical
3.01      The Project area comprises the whole of tye Eastern Province of
Zambia (Map IBRD 14672), an area of about 70,000 km bounded on the east
by Malawi, on the south by Mozambique and on the north by the valley of the
Luangwa River. There are three distinct physiographical regions: the Pla-
teau, a rolling and partially wooded upland area of elevations between 900 m
and 1500 m, the Escarpment, which consists of the discontinuous dissected
upper and middle slopes of the Luangwa valley, and the Luangwa Valley proper,
a hot, sparsely-populated tsetse-infested area about 400 m - 600 m in eleva-
tion. Average annual rainfall ranges from about 800 mm in the Valley through
850 mm at Lundazi on the northern Plateau to over 1,000 mm around Chipata on



- 14 -
the southern Plateau (Map IBRD 14673). Virtually all this rain falls during
the summer and fall months of November throuth April. The mean annual tem-
perature is about 21 0C on the Plateau and 25 C in the Valley.
3.02      There are major differences in the soils of the three regions.
Plateau soils are largely well- to moderately well-drained light to medium
textured sands and sandy loams, of medium acidity and moderate natural fer-
tility. There are also significant areas - not yet fully mapped - of red sand
clay loam or clay with a higher inherent fertility. Valley soils are mixed
alluvial, but typically medium to heavy-textured soils, difficult to work,
but of good inherent fertility. The Escarpment is characterized by skeletal
soils and lithosols, interspersed with pockets of deeper colluvial soils.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
3.03      Communications.  The Eastern Province is connected by tarred road
with Lusaka and the Malawi border, and by flights from Lusaka. An extensive
road network (5,000 km) exists, but many feeder roads to villages, particu-
larly in the Valley, become impassable during the rains and, in general, most
rural roads receive extensive maintenance after each rainy season. Only about
25% of the Provincial population lives within 7.5 km of an all-weather road.
However, road access is not a major constraint to agricultural production,
since with proper planning produce can be evacuated and inputs delivered
during the long dry season.
3.04      Water Supplies.  The Luangua River system is only weakly perennial.
About 500 villages, mainly on the Plateau, are equipped with boreholes, there
are about 250 small dams and almost all other villages have wells, which aver-
age 15 m in depth. Water supply for the population does not represent a major
problem.
3.05      Social Services.  There are seven hospitals in the Province, pro-
viding 2.4 beds per 1,000 people and placing about half of the population
within 30 km of a hospital. These figures do not differ greatly from the
national averages (respectively 2.8 beds per 1,000 with 59% of the population
within 30 km of a hospital). There are in addition 69 health centers with 136
staff. The Province has a total of 432 primary schools staffed by about 2,000
teachers (of whom about 75% are qualified), and almost 90% of school age chil-
dren are enrolled. The Province also has 10 secondary schools and a teacher
training college.
C. Socio-economic Characteristics
3.06      The Province is overwhelmingly agrarian in character.  The total
area of the Eastern Province is about 6.9 million ha. About 3.7 million ha
(45%) has agricultural potential, and of this area 1.3 million ha is estimated
to be cultivated (although only about half of this is actually cropped in any
one year), a further 0.7 million ha is not cultivated but has medium or good
crop potential, and the remaining 1.7 million ha is good only for grazing.
Population pressure is little problem. State land (i.e. land held under



- 15 -
formal leasehold rights granted by the President) covers about 240,000 ha, of
which about a third is farmed by about 70 commercial farmers and the remainder
occupied by GRZ production and settlement schemes. The remaining land area is
held under traditional forms of land tenure administered largely by chiefs and
headmen.
3.07      The Province's population in 1979 is estimated at 638,000, growing
at about 2.4% per annum. Most of the population is concentrated on the
Plateau (Map IBRD 14673). The number of farm households in the traditional
sector is currently estimated at about 142,000, one-third of whom are
headed by females and belong to the poorest category. The estimated farm size
distribution is given in Annex 1, Table T-3. In summary, farms are generally
small; an estimated 95% of holdings are less than 4 ha, and 61% less than
1.4 ha in size. Most farms are cultivated by hand labor, since only about 25%
of farmers own the provincial cattle herd of about 214,000 head.
3.08      Although no comprehensive data exists, it is estimated that only
about 40% of farmers regularly produce a marketable crop surplus, with the
remaining 60% being essentially subsistence cultivators.  The main subsistence
crops grown in the Valley are sorghum and millet, although maize cultivation is
on the increase. On the Plateau, traditional varieties of maize, groundnuts,
beans and vegetables are the main subsistence crops. The major cash crops
are cotton and, to a limited extent, groundnuts and sunflower in the Valley,
and hybrid maize, cotton, sunflower, groundnuts and, on schemes, virginia and
burley tobacco, on the Plateau.
3.09      Data on rural incomes in the Eastern Province is lacking, but, on
the basis of farm sizes and cropping patterns, average farm income in 1979 is
estimated at about K 330 (US$413) or about K 77 (US$96) per capita, of which
only about 40% represents cash income. About 85% of farm income is derived
from crops, and the remainder from livestock. These data do not account for
any off-farm income, e.g. from remittances. However, it is estimated, that
over 60% of the rural population have incomes below the absolute poverty level
(put at about US$140 per annum in rural Zambia).
D. Marketed Agricultural Production
3.10      The volume of production of the major cash crops (maize, groundnuts,
cotton, sunflower and burley tobacco) marketed through official channels in
the Province in recent years is shown in Annex 1, Table T-4. Maize production
expanded steadily to a peak of 85,000 m tons in 1977, but fell to 69,000 m
tons in 1978 and to an estimated 35,000 m tons in 1979, as a result of poor
weather, late arrival of inputs and late payment for crop purchase during
1978. Seed cotton production has fluctuated, reaching 1,350 m tons in 1969
but then declining to only 236 m ton in 1972 as a result of unfavorable
prices, before recovering again, as prices increased, to almost 3,000 m tons
in 1978 and an estimated 3,500 m tons in 1979. Sunflower production has
expanded steadily since the introduction of that crop in 1973, and reached 700
m tons in 1978. Groundnut production has fluctuated erratically, reflecting
changing relative prices and the possibilities for informal marketing of this
crop, both internally and in Malawi. Burley tobacco production, which also
has fluctuated as a result of poor services by the Tobacco Board of Zambia and
unfavorable relative prices, has shown a sharp decline since 1976.



- 16 -
3.11      Over the period 1970/71 to 1977/78, the value of marketed crop pro-
duction (at 1978 constant prices) has almost tripled, mainly as a result of
the expansion in maize production. Over the same period, the proportion of
national marketed production accounted for by Eastern Province has risen from
2% to 12% for maize and 10% to 30% for seed cotton. For groundnuts the pro-
portion has fallen from 80% to 55%, and for sunflower seed has risen from 0.2%
in 1974 to 9% in 1978.
E. Agricultural Services
Agricultural Research
3.12      The principal agricultural research institution in the Eastern Prov-
ince is the Msekera Regional Research Station, part of the Research Branch
of MAWD. Msekera, which was originally established in the 1930's, is located
on the plateau near Chipata, at an altitude of about 1,000 m., and has about
400 ha of land, ample for its research needs. Associated with Msekera is the
Masumba sub-station (established in 1974) in the Luangwa Valley, at an alti-
tude of 550 m., which has 250 ha of land, again ample for its needs.
3.13      The research program at Msekera covers maize, sorghum, cotton,
groundnuts, sunflower, beans, tobacco and pasture and fodder crops, and at
Masumba trials are conducted on sorghum, cotton, rice, groundnuts, sunflower
and safflower. These research programs form part of the various multi-dis-
ciplinary research programs organized by Mount Makulu (para. 1.12). The most
relevant to the Eastern Province is the National Oilseeds Development Program,
which was originated in 1972 with FAO support. Under this program, much work
has been done on the selection of sunflower varieties suitable for Zambia, a
groundnut breeder (FAO-sponsored) has been stationed at Msekera since February
1979, and a cotton breeder and cotton entomologist financed by bilateral donors
are shortly expected to join the program at Mount Makulu.
3.14      The major constraint facing agricultural research in the Eastern
Province is a shortage of manpower and operating funds. Msekera, in addition
to its officer in charge, is currently staffed only by the groundnut breeder,
5 agricultural assistants (one of whom is stationed at Masumba) and a farm
manager. There is thus no agronomist stationed in the Province. Largely as
a result of these staff constraints, there are major shortcomings in the
research program presently being carried out. There is a need for refinement
of existing technical packages and recommendations on cultural practices (land
preparation, planting dates and methods, etc.) to take account of the major
crop-ecological differences that exist between the plateau and the valley
regions and within these regions. While during the 1960's and early 1970's
adaptive research was carried out at off-station locations in the province,
staff constraints and lack of funds now prevents this. There is a need for
on-farm research into farm management practices, to provide information and
feedback to both research and extension staffs. In addition, three other
areas of research are lacking attention. There is no plant pathologist
addressing the problems carried by plant diseases. Despite the importance of
livestock in the Province, and the constraints posed to livestock development
by feed shortages, little work has been carried out on the possibilities for
pasture improvement through the introduction of Rhodes grass, star grass or
legumes such as Stylosanthes spp., Dolichos spp., and Leucaena spp. While
small stock are a major source of animal protein to rural families, basic



- 17 -
data on the role and performance of locally available stock, and on optimal
management techniques, is incomplete and unreliable. These problems would be
addressed under the proposed Project (paras. 4.04-4.05).
3.15      The Research Branch also has responsibility for supervision of seed
production and for seed certification. Seed production and certification in
the Province is generally satisfactory. In the 1979/80 season, selected
growers were cultivating about 300 ha of seed maize, 140 ha of seed ground-
nuts, 40 ha of seed beans of various types, 30 ha of sunflower and 10 ha of
chillies and okra seed. The Province is presently a surplus producer of all
of these seeds. However, all cotton seed used in the Province is produced in
the Central Province, and often arrives late. This problem would not arise
if cotton seed were produced in the Luangua Valley, which is ecologically an
excellent location for the production of the Province's cotton seed. In addi-
tion, once Makulu Red groundnut seed is made available in the Eastern Province,
it is expected that demand would rise rapidly, particularly when mechanised
groundnut shelling has been introduced (para. 4.20). Expansion of seed in-
spection activities would be financed under the Project (para. 4.05).
Extension
3.16      Agricultural extension services in the Eastern Province are provided
to farmers by staff of the Department of Agriculture of MAWD, under the con-
trol of the Provincial Agricultural Officer. For the purposes of administra-
tion of the extension service, the Province is divided into eight agricultural
districts - Chipata North and South, Lundazi, Chadiza, Petauke, Nyimba, Katete
and Chama, with District Agricultural Officers in charge of each district.
There are at present 307 extension staff, of whom 8 are graduates, 151 trained
(either diplomates or certificate holders) and the remaining 148 are Demonstra-
tors who have received only short-course training. Of the trained staff, 22
are specialists stationed at the Provincial headquarters, and a further 53
are at District headquarters. Thus, as much as 50% of the trained staff are at
Provincial and District headquarters. Field extension staff are stationed at
a total of 40 agricultural stations (where supervisory staff live) and 102
agricultural camps, where housing is provided by MAWD (Map IBRD 14674). Up to
three workers may live at a station or camp, but at many, there is only one
staff. The present ratio of field staff to farmers is about 1:800. It is
expected that under the Project this ratio would be further improved.
3.17      The extension service currently operates under a number of major
constraints. The bulk of farmer contacts are made by the relatively
untrained Demonstrators, who do not have definite work programs and receive
little or no supervision. In part, the lack of supervision stems from a lack
of transport and the necessary operating expenses. Loan for bicycles have not
been available for many years, shortages of funds have led to the stoppage of
bicycle allowances, the vehicle pool has been depleted by the lack of spare
parts and budgetary allocations for running expenses have been reduced. UIntil
the beginning of 1980, Demonstrators were paid only K 45 per month, but this
has now been raised to K 70. Many houses are in poor repair. As a result of
all these factors, staff morale is low, and the extension service is ineffec-
tive in exploiting the existence of technical packages. Under the Project,
steps would be taken to reorganize, re-equip and revitalize the extension
services in the Eastern Province (paras. 4.06-4.10).



- 18 -
3.18      In addition to field visits by extension workers, training for farm-
ers is offered at 7 Farmer Training Centers in the Province, of which 5 have
been upgraded under the Bankls Third Education Project. These facilities are
currently being used at less than 20% of their capacity due to lack of recur-
rent funds.
Animal Health Services
3.19      The Provincial Department of Veterinary and Tsetse Control in the
Eastern Province is staffed by 2 veterinarians, a tsetse control biologist,
16 diploma-level staff, 73 certificate level staff and supporting dip tank
attendants, tsetse guards, etc. The main activities of the department are
the operation of about 45 diptanks, the maintenance of about 375 km of game
fence and holding line (to control tsetse) and the treatment of major live-
stock diseases (East Coast fever, quarter-evil rabies and African swine
fever). The major constraint is the shortage of dip fluids and drugs.
Agricultural Input Delivery
3.20      ECU is now responsible for the procurement, distribution and sale to
farmers in the Eastern Province of seeds, fertilizers, tools, implements and
insecticides. For this purpose, ECU has over 156 rural depots. Of these,
22 are permanent depots open all year round, and the remainder are seasonal.
Of these depots, about 60% have corrugated iron roofs, 30% are of pole and
tarpaulin construction and 10% are mud and wattle. These last two types of
store are unsatisfactory, their use resulting in losses, through rain damage,
of seeds and fertilizer stored in them. NAMB who used to operate these depots
until December 1980, estimated these losses at 3% - 5% of store throughput
annually, but this represents only stocks damaged badly enough to be written
off; other fertilizer although lumpy and of lowered quality, is still sold to
farmers. At current sales levels, only 40% of ECU's rural stores have adequate
capacity to hold sufficient stock for one season. A further 20% have through-
puts up to 50% greater than storage capacity, and the remaining 40% have
throughputs over 50% greater than storage capacity.
3.21      The bulk of sales occur in November and December, after the rains
and crop plantings have started. About 80% of fertilizer sales, and 95% of
seed sales, are on a cash basis. At present, as a result of the inadequate
storage capacity, either ECU delivers sufficient stocks to a depot and some
are then damaged by rain, or depots run out and the rains delay or prevent
prompt re-supply. The Project would address this problem by expanding rural
storage capacity at depots where this is justified by past sales (para 4.11).
Timely input delivery in 1978 and 1979 was constrained by late delivery of
imported fertilizer. About 8,000 m tons of large-scale input storage capacity
exists in the Province, and this will be supplemented to an adequate level
under a construction program to be financed by the Canadian Government. ECU
depot clerks are well trained, and stock maintenance recording and reporting
procedures are generally satisfactory. Official data on fertilizer and hybrid
maize seed sales show considerable variation from one year to the next. These
variations are the combined result of demand, producer price and time at which
the inputs were available at the field depots in any particular year. Sales
in Eastern Province were:



- 19 -
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Fertilizer ('000 mt)        5.9    5.8   11.2   13.5   16.2   12.4   14.3
Maize seed (mt)             95.5  268.8  350.5  463.7  929.9  318.2  260.2
Agricultural Credit
3.22      The major agricultural credit institutions in Zambia are reasonably
well represented in the Eastern Province.  AFC has a Provincial Office in
Chipata and six District Offices. Two commercial banks have branches in
Chipata and a total of three sub-branches elsewhere in the Province. LINTCO
operates a credit program for the provision of inputs to cotton producers.
ECU on-lends to its societies funds borrowed from AFC. DBZ and ZSIC disburse,
from their head offices in Lusaka, medium and long-term loans. The African
Farming Improvement Fund, the CFC and credit unions also made relatively
limited disbursements.
3.23      The total volume of loans outstanding to farmers in the Eastern
Province is estimated at about K 6.5 million, of which K 2.8 million repre-
sents loans to smallholders. About K 3 million of this (45%) is in the form
of medium- or long-term credit loans to smallholders. The total number of
borrowers is around 20,000 (14% of farmers in the Province) of whom over 99%
are smallholders. Individual loans by AFC account for 72% of smallholder
outstandings. AFC block loans through ECU account for a further 8%, with the
balance mainly from LINTCO. In addition to problems experienced in the whole
of Zambia, the strong reliance on the stoporder system and concurrent failure
by both AFC and ECU to enforce its provisions as a result of grossly inadequate
field supervision, credit recovery rates for both institutions have declined
sharply in recent years, and averaged only 40% in 1978, the last year for
which data is available. Institutional strengthening of ECU and ZADB would be
required prior to undertaking an expanded loan program, and this would be
carried out as part of the proposed Project (paras 4.15, 4.16).
Agricultural Marketing
3.24      ECU is responsible for primary crop marketing in the Eastern Prov-
ince, through a network of 450-500 seasonal buying depots operated by its
primary societies. ECU buys confectionary groundnuts (Chalimbana variety) for
export on its own account, and acts as LINTCO agent for the purchase of
cotton. ECU pays farmers the prices fixed by GRZ. Except for groundnuts and
controlled produce, ECU has no storage facilities, and therefore delivers
cotton to LINTCO as soon as it can be transported. Similarly, NAMB does not
have sufficient storage capacity within the Province to store the surplus crop
it purchases from ECU during the rains, and they must therefore be evacuated
to Lusaka during the dry season. As a result, transport capacity during the
dry season is often strained. In recent years, marketing has also been
constrained by shortage Qf crop purchase finance, and as a result there have
been delays in payments to farmers.
3.25      CSB has an abattoir at Chipata which handles up to a maximum of only
30 animals per day. However, in addition it has a network of 33 buying posts
in the Eastern Province through which animals are purchased and transported
to Lusaka for slaughter. Animals are bought by weight and grade.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The soils and climatic conditions in the Eastern Province of Zambia
are suitable for the production of a variety of crops (para. 3.08). Proven
and attractive technical packages are available for the production on family
farms of maize, cotton, groundnuts and sunflower. Smallholders in the Prov-
ince have shown themselves responsive to price incentives and to the technical
innovations available, as has been evidenced by the increase in marketed sur-
pluses of hybrid maize, sunflower and cotton in recent years. However, it
is currently estimated that only about 30% of the farmers in the Province are
using improved packages. Increasing uptake of these packages is constrained
by several factors. Difficulty in obtaining inputs (particularly fertilizer
and seeds) at the appropriate time, as a consequence of limited input stor-
age within the production areas and limited access to these areas during the
rains, reduces the ability of farmers to intensify production. The extension
service is unable, as a result of a lack of adequate training, supervision
and mobility, to encourage more farmers to adopt improved packages. An over-
all shortage of credit acts as a further constraint on the use of inputs, and
would be a bigger constraint if inputs were more readily available.
4.02      The Project has the objective, over a five and a half year period
(consisting of a preparatory period during the last six months of 1981 and
then the five full GRZ fiscal years 1982-1986), of increasing agricultural
production and hence raising the incomes and levels of living of small
farmers in the Eastern Province, through the provision of improved services.
The Project would also finance some improvements in processing facilities,
and the eradication of tsetse fly from a small area of the Province which
is surrounded by areas from which tsetse has been previously eradicated. The
Project would provide technical assistance to strengthen, at a national level,
ZADB, through which credit would be channelled to smallholders in the Eastern
Province. The Project would strengthen the planning and monitoring capability
of the office of the Provincial Permanent Secretary (PPS) for the Eastern
Province, and would finance a program of Project evaluation. The Project
would focus on reinforcing and upgrading existing organizations by providing
their staff with the necessary transport, equipment, programming and supervi-
sion to perform their tasks. Specifically, the Project would finance the
following components:
(a) Agricultural research, including additional staff, equipment,
housing and transport for Msekera and Masumba research stations,
operating costs for the expanded research program and for existing
services for which Government is currently unable to provide adequate
funds at Msekera and Masumba, and irrigation development at Mount
Makulu Research Station;
(b) Agricultural extension, including a reorganization of the pro-
vincial extension service along the lines of a modified training
and visit- system, the provision of additional housing and trans-
port facilities, and the financing of incremental staff and oper-
ating costs, and of the existing services for which the Government
is presently unable to provide adequate funds.



- 21 -
(c) Agricultural input delivery, including additional input storage
for use by ECU and LINTCO, and the purchase of agricultural
inputs for distribution to smallholders;
(d) Agricultural credit, including the provision of technical assis-
tance to strengthen ECU-s credit operations in the Eastern Province
and ZADB's credit operations at a national level, and the funding
of ECU's and eventually ZADB's incremental smallholder credit
disbursements in the Eastern Province;
(e) Agricultural processing, including the provision of mechanized
groundnut shellers at selected markets, the construction of a new
insecticide packing plant for LINTCO and the construction of
additional storage and other infrastructural improvements at the
LINTCO cotton ginnery in Chipata;
(f) Tsetse control, comprising the financing of a program to
control tsetse in a small, discrete, area of the province
through hand-spraying;
(g) Project planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, includ-
ing the strengthening of the office of the PPS through technical
assistance, and the funding of Project evaluation activities.
4.03      Project execution would generally be through the existing regional
departments or parastatals or ECU, as appropriate to the component, strength-
ened as necessary by additional technical personnel and funding within the
functional units. Overall responsibility for planning, coordinating, moni-
toring and accounting for Project activities would be the responsibility of
the PPS, whose office would be strengthened under the Project. In order to
provide the most effective assistance to the PPS, a Supervisory and Evaluation
Committee (SEC) would be established within MAWD to review, coordinate and
approve the budgets and work plans prepared by the PPS. Project evaluation
would be carried out by staff of the Rural Development Studies Bureau (RDSB)
of the University of Zambia, in collaboration with provincial staff and staff
of the MAWD headquarters and the SEC would review and approve the budgets and
work plans prepared by the Research Officer.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Research
4.04      The Project would support and expand the existing program of agri-
cultural research relevant to small farmers in the Eastern Province, which
is being carried out by MAWD both within the Province and at Mount Makulu
(para. 3.13). The Project would finance the employment at Msekera during the
Project period of five additional qualified research staff. These would be
two agronomists (one to manage the program of trials which would be carried
on at the Msekera station and the Masumba sub-station, and the other to manage
a program of on-farm verification trials at representative locations through-
out the Province); a plant pathologist (who would work with the groundnut
breeder already at Msekera and with other oilseed breeders at Mount Makulu
on the problems of oilseeds and with the agronomists on the problems of grain



- 22 -
crops and beans); a pasture agronomist, who would carry out experiments on the
establishment, use and value of improved pasture, and who would also supervise
the production at Msekera of pasture legume seed for sale to farmers; and a
livestock production officer, who would carry out an inventory of local breeds
of sheep and goats, and study their disease and management problems. In view
of the shortage of qualified local staff, all of these research staff would
need to be internationally-recruited. 1/ No funds would be provided under the
Project for the training of Zambian counterpart staff, since sufficient
scholarships are available to the Research Branch from bilateral agencies;
the constraint to the rapid expansion of Zambia's cadre of qualified agricul-
tural researchers is not lack of training opportunities, but the relatively
small number of suitable graduates coming available. However under the Project
GR would be required to provide qualified Zambian counterparts for all posts
manned by expatriates and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-
tions. In addition to these internationally recruited staff, funds would be
provided under the Project for the employment at Masumba of a Seed Production
Officer, who would supervise cotton seed production and provide technical
assistance to local seed growers in the Luangwa Valley, and of a laboratory
Technician at Msekera. Both of these staff would be Zambians. The Project
would include provision to meet the subsistence and overnight allowances for
these staff.
4.05      Funds would be provided under the Project for the renovation of
two existing houses and for the construction at Msekera of three more houses
(Type 324) suitable for internationally recruited staff. Two Type 313 houses
(for the incremental Zambian staff) would be constructed, one at Msekera and
one at Masumba. The facilities at the Masumba substation would be upgraded
by the provision of a borehole and irrigation equipment to allow for double-
cropping under plant breeding programs and the construction of a small office/
store. An irrigated isolation field would be established at Mount Makulu for
the sunflower improvement program. This would involve the sinking of a bore-
hole, installation of about 1 km of power line, a pump and sprinkler irriga-
tion equipment, and the fencing of the area involved (about 4 ha). A total of
8 four wheel drive vehicles (for the internationally-recruited staff and the
Seed Production Officer and for the present Sunflower and Cotton Breeders at
Mount Makulu) and their operating costs would be met by the Project. The
Project would also finance the purchase of laboratory equipment and chemicals
for Msekera, and the purchase of some items of laboratory equipment for the
sunflower improvement program at Mount Makulu.
Extension
4.06      The Provincial extension service would be reorganized under the
Project along the lines of the  training and visit  system, suitably modified
to take account of local conditions. The numbers of extension staff currently
in post, together with these expected to be posted to the Province over the
Project period, would be adequate to enable such a system to operate, although
substantial re-assignments within the Province, particularly of trained staff,
1/   The structure of the Research Branch is currently being reviewed by GRZ.
It is possible that one outcome of this review may be a need to modify
the disciplinary composition of the research staff proposed under the
Project.



- 23 -
would be required. The aim would be to provide contact farmers with technical
advice through regular visits from village level extension workers (VEW-s),
who would operate on a schedule of regular fortnightly visits to about 8-10
groups of contact farmers, with each group containing 10-15 farmers. These
contact farmers in turn would pass extension advice to neighbors. The activi-
ties of VEW-s would be supervised by experienced, certificate-level staff,
each of whom supervise about 8-10 VEW-s, meeting with them at least twice
monthly for training and supervision. These supervisors, in turn, would meet
at least once a month, for training and supervision, with the DAO and his
support staff. In addition to receiving training through this system of
regular meetings, an upgraded program of in-service training by Provincial
specialists and the staff of the Farm Institute and the FTC's would be devel-
oped (para 4.08). The reorganization would be phased over four years (PY2-PY5),
with two districts being reorganized in each year. The detailed Project
investments within this component are discussed below.
4.07      Staffing.  The costs of employing incremental extension staff (esti-
mated at 5 diplomates and 70 certificate holders over the Project period) and
the incremental night allowances and travel allowances required to enable the
proposed system to work effectively, would be financed under the Project. Two
additional professional staff, both of whom would need to be internationally-
recruited, would be employed. An Extension Management Specialist, with pre-
vious field experience in the operation of the training and visit system,
would assist the PAO in the detailed planning and implementation of the pro-
posed reorganization, and a Provincial Farm Management Officer would establish
a link between research and extension in the Province and assist in training
of extension staff. GRZ would be required to provide qualified local counter-
part staff for all posts filled with expatriates under the Project and
assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.08      Training.  To broaden the scope of the extension service to cater
for all farmers, including male and female-headed small-farmer families,
urgent attention would be given to evolving recommendations which are relevant
and practical to the farmers and groups of farmers, and to training extension
staff. VEW's would be trained by district training teams (based at FTC's),
and by the DAO and district specialist officers during monthly meetings (on
pay-day) at the District's FTC. One training session per month would be held
for each station and its subordinate camps by the district training team, with
the assistance of district and/or provincial specialists. For this purpose,
each training team would be provided under the Project with a four-wheel drive
station wagon. In addition, modular courses, to a total of 4,410 mandays,
would be given for Commodity Demonstrators, to raise their effectiveness to
that of Agricultural Assistants. This would entail specialized subject matter
training in the form of lectures, symposia, formal courses and exchange visits
to other provinces and/or projects. Funds would be provided also for a total
of 9 manmonths of study tours to India (to one or more states where the T & V
system is operating successfully) for the PAO and 8 DAO's. To improve the
teaching effectiveness of the Katapola Farm Institute, audio-visual equipment
and material would be provided under the Project.
4.09      Infrastructure.  In order to enable VEW supervisors to be posted
where needed, about 27 Grade 313 houses (and associated small stores/offices)
would be constructed. About 23 new agricultural camps would be established



- 24 -
(Map IBRD 14674) by the construction of Grade 203 houses, in areas where
effective service to substantial numbers of farmers cannot be provided from
existing camps, and a further 4 Grade 203 houses would be built at existing
camps where housing does not presently exist. About 200 existing substandard
houses would be renovated, and about 100 shallow wells would be constructed
at camps which do not presently have adequate water supplies. The sites for
these infrastructural investments have all been provisionally identified by
the PAO. Project costs would also include the costs of maintaining these
facilities over the Project period.
4.10      Vehicles.  It is crucial to the success of the training and visit
system that VEW-s supervisors and Provincial and District staff are mobile.
A total of 46 four wheel drive vehicles (23 in the early years of the Project
and a further 23 as replacements in PY5 and PY6), 100 motorcycles (about 40
for extension supervisors and 60 for VEW's with large extension areas) and
340 bicycles for VEW's would be purchased under the Project together with a
small bus and two five-ton trucks for the Katapola Farm Institute. The Proj-
ect would also finance the cost of purchase of spare parts for all these vehi-
cles, and their estimated costs of operation over the Project period.
Agricultural Input Delivery
4.11      Expansion of Storage Capacity.  The Project would finance the con-
struction of new stores for ECU at about 25 sites where annual sales of
fertilizer during the 1977 and 1978 seasons averaged over 500 bags and where
no covered storage exists, and where consequently both fertilizer and seed
are lost through rain damage. These stores would be 6 m by 4 m in size,
sufficient for 1,000 bags. In addition, about 20 new stores would be con-
structed and a further 18 others extended at locations where existing stores
are inadequate because they are either dilapidated or too small. These
stores would be of sufficient capacity to store a full season's input require-
ments, on the basis of the average input usage in the 1977 and 1978 seasons.
The locations for these stores have been identified, and it is estimated that
seven 3,000 bag stores, seven 2,500 bag stores, 11 2,000 bag stores, 12 1,500
bag stores and one 1,000 bag store would be constructed. These stores would
be built by local contractors to plans already approved by the Bank and whose
construction would be supervised by ECU with the help of the PCW. The stores
would be equipped with wooden pallets for fertilizer and seed storage.
4.12      The Project would 2also finance the construction by LINTCO of about
36 small stores (about 12 m in size) at agricultural camps in cotton growing
areas where no ECU depot exists within a reasonable distance. These stores
would be used for the storage and distribution to cotton growers of cotton
insecticide packs.
4.13      Financing of Agricultural Inputs.  The Project would finance the
purchase by ECU and LINTCO, in each year of the Project, of the incremental
fertilizer, seed and pesticide needs, above those in the 1980/81 crop season,
of smallholders in the Eastern Province producing maize, sunflower, cotton
and groundnuts.



- 25 -
Agricultural Credit
4.14      The Project would (a) strengthen ECU as a major borrower and on-
lender of Government credit funds; (b) assist ZADB to become established on
a sound and rational basis at a national level; (c) provide incremental credit
funds to be channelled through ECU to smallholder farmers in Eastern Province
and to ZADB when it becomes operational to the satisfaction of the Bank for
direct lending to individual farmers other than members of cooperative
societies affiliated to ECU in the province (para 4.18).
4.15      Assistance to ECU.  ECU first embarked on its credit program in
1975. Disbursement was limited and the repayment rate high. The program
was expanded in the second year, and the collection rate dropped sharply.
Collection rates have continued to decline in subsequent years, despite sub-
stantial cutbacks in new disbursements. A number of institutional factors
within ECU have contributed to the decline. These include the low levels of
qualification and training of the staff involved, numerous shortcomings in
the stop-order system designed to deduct loan repayments from marketings, and
generally inadequate supervision of field staff. Under the Project, funds
would be provided for ECU to recruit internationally (and provide with a vehi-
cle) a Credit Specialist, with experience in grass-roots credit management,
to assist ECU to overcome basic weaknesses, particularly on supervision of
field staff. Provision would also be made to meet the cost of about 50% of
the salaries of ECU-s (presently part-time) Credit Officers, so that they
could become full-time Credit Officers, each of whom would be provided with a
motorcycle to allow greater contact with primary societies.
4.16      Assistance to ZADB.  The Project would finance a program of tech-
nical assistance to ZADB over the first three years of the Project. Assis-
tance would be provided in all pertinent major areas, but with particular
emphasis on lending operations and procedures, program development, staff
training, organization and administration. Attention would also be given
to strengthening systems of accounting, reporting and monitoring. Four spe-
cialists would be internationally-recruited by ZADB, for a total of about
13 man-years. They would be specialists in Agricultural Development Banking,
Program Development, Personnel Development and Training, and Agricultural
Credit. The Project would finance salaries and benefits, and local housing
costs, at an estimated cost per man-year of US$83,000. This long-term tech-
nical assistance would be supplemented by the provision of about 12 man-months
of short-term consultancy services in fields such as accounting, reporting,
monitoring and supervision, at a cost per man-month, including salaries, over-
head costs, international travel and subsistence, estimated at US$8,600.
4.17      Incremental Credit Funds.  Estimation of the incremental credit
requirements for smallholders in the Eastern Province is difficult. While
AFC-s credit disbursements for 1978/79 in the Eastern Province represented
only about 40% of applications, repayment rates have been falling in recent
years. Although this is at least in part a result of factors outside the
control of credit institutions (late delivery of inputs and late payment for
crops) it would nevertheless appear desirable for ECU and ZADB to plan only a
relatively slow expansion of their credit activities during the Project
period. Furthermore, much of the inputs sold are sold on a cash basis, and
this is likely to apply to incremental inputs provided under the Project,
although at a somewhat lower rate than at present, since the target group



- 26 -
consists of small farmers who would have a greater need for seasonal credit to
finance adoption of new packages than those smallholders who have already
adopted them. Including contingencies, incremental input sales to smallholders
over the Project period would be about K 1 million, and it is estimated that
about 25% of these would be on a credit basis, giving incremental seasonal
credit requirements of about K 0.25 million, which would be disbursed by GRZ
direct to ECU. In addition, there is considerable scope for expansion of
medium-term credit for purchase of ox drawn equipment, and a further K 0.75
million would be provided to meet this need and would be disbursed to ECU by
the GRZ and to ZADB when it has become operational to the satisfaction of the
Bank. Thus, a sum of K 1 million would be provided under the Project to meet
ECU's and later ZADB-s incremental credit disbursements to smallholders in
the Province. These funds would be used to meet both disbursements by ECU
direct to societies and later by ZADB to individuals and group lenders other
than cooperatives affiliated to ECU.
4.18      The present AFC interest rate structure is unsatisfactory, since
AFC does not have a sufficient interest rate spread to cover its costs of
operations (including provision for bad debts). Even after receiving annual
subsidies from GRZ to meet the costs of operation of uneconomic offices
maintained at GRZ direction (para 2.11) AFC would need to charge interest
rates to farmers in excess of the current 12% interest rate ceiling (para
1.16) to cover operating costs including bad debt provision. Although, through
the proposed greater emphasis on group lending, it is expected that, even-
tually, ZADB would be able to operate at a lower cost than AFC, it is likely
that interest rates would need to be raised from present levels if ZADB is to
be financially viable. A rise in interest rates is also desirable if they
are to be positive in real terms given projected levels of inflation. An
early task of ZADB management, strengthened by the technical assistance
funded under the Project, would be to draw up operating policies and pro-
cedures and a financing plan for ZADB operations which would detail projected
operating costs and interest rates required to maintain financial viability.
It was agreed during negotiations that such operating policies, pro-
cedures and financing plan would be drawn up and presented to the Bank by
March 31, 1982 in a comprehensive 5-year plan, satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ would pay to ZADB an
annual subsidy to meet the costs of any uneconomic offices maintained by ZADB
at the direction of GRZ. Assurances were also obtained that ECU and ZADB
would progressively raise their interest rates so that by March 31, 1984
these would be sufficient to cover their costs of funds, operating costs
(after allowance for the GRZ subsidy) and reasonable provision for bad debts,
and that GRZ would take all measures necessary to revise the maximum interest
rate are in order that ECU and ZADB could carry out this obligation.
Agricultural Processing
4.19      Groundnut Decorticators.  The expansion of groundnut production in the
Eastern Province is constrained by the present need for laborious and time-
consuming hand-shelling by farmers prior to marketing. Particularly with the
availability of Makulu Red groundnut seed (which are small nuts of a uniform
size amenable to mechanical shelling) in the Eastern Province for the first
time, the introduction of mechanized groundnut decorticating is likely to have
a considerable impact on production. Several types of decorticators are
available on the world market, ranging from small bicycle-powered decorticators



- 27 -
suitable for use at small markets to large mechanized decorticators for use at
five or six central depots.  Tests of these various machines and a study of
the feasibility of their use in the Eastern Province are currently being
carried out by the Groundnut Breeder at Msekera, with the assistance of other
research staff.  The outcome of this study would be recommendations on the
technology to be used in the Eastern Province. A sum of K 87,000 would be
provided under the Project to ECU to purchase the decorticators that would be
recommended. This sum would be sufficient to purchase small decorticators for
installation at about 50 markets. It would be a condition of disbursement
against these funds that GRZ had drawn up detailed proposals satisfactory to
the Bank on the type of decorticators to be purchased.
4.20      Insecticide Packing Plant.  Insecticides for use in cotton spraying
are currently packed by hand by LINTCO staff in a rented shed which is not
suitable for this purpose. In consequence, unacceptably high risks are posed
to the health of the workers. Two cases of serious poisoning have been iden-
tified, and it is likely that considerable sub-clinical poisoning has taken
place, although this has not been monitored. The Project would finance the
construction, at the Chipata cotton ginnery, of a new LINTCO packing plant
designed for the purpose. The plant would have adequate provision for dust
control, and the chemicals would be packed by 3 semi-automatic filling machines
into polythene bags which would be heat sealed. Such a system would require
little sophisticated maintenance. While the new plant would employ only 8
staff, as against the 30 currently employed, this reduction is acceptable in
view of the greatly reduced risk level which would be attained.
4.21       Infrastructural Improvements to Cotton Ginnery.  The present stor-
age capacity at the LINTCO cotton ginnery in Chipata consists of a lint stor-
age shed of about 700 m2, wlich can store about 975 m tons of lint, and a seed
storage shed of about 600 m , which can store about 950 tons of seed. The gin-
nery season runs from June until close to the start of the rains in November,
and both lint and seed are normally stored in Chipata during the rains. Due
to sharp increases in production in response to price increases (para 3.10)
the existing storage capacity is not sufficient and, as a consequence, about
1,000 tons of seed was stored under tarpaulins during the 1977/78 rainy
season. The storage losses incurred amounted to about 10-15% of the seed
involved, with a cash value of K 215,000-22,000. The Project would finance
the construction of about 1700 m of additional storage (which would meet the
expected storage requirements of the ginnery through the Project period), the
installation of a truck weighbridge and hard-topping of the ginnery compound.
Tsetse Control
4.22      An area of about 1700 km  of bush in Petauke District would be
cleared of tsetse fly under the2Project.  The area concerned li5s between
two areas (one of about 1000 km and the other of about 2200 km ) which were
cleared of tsetse fly in 1977 and 1978. One of these areas was cleared by
aerial spraying and the other by spraying from a specially-equipped vehicle.
However, under the Project spraying would be undertaken by eight teams of
men using knapsack sprayers, this method of operations being environmentally
preferable to those used previously. Analysis indicates that spraying of
the area concerned is a more cost-effective way to deal with tsetse fly than



- 28 -
prophylactic treatment of cattle at risk or curative treatment of cattle in-
fected with trypanosomiasis.  The spraying activities would be carried out   2
between July and November in two successive years.  An area of about 1,100 km
would be sprayed each year. The area to be sprayed would overlap by 15% with
these areas previously sprayed, so that no pockets of infestation would be
left. The insecticide to be used would be DDT 75% wettable powder diluted
to 4%, with an application rate of less than 400 g per ha of active ingredient.
Only the trunks of trees of diameters larger than 15 cm would be sprayed, and
then only from about 60 cm above the ground to about 250 cm above the ground.
No insecticide would be sprayed on the ground or on tree leaves, since tsetse
flies rest only on trunks of trees. Environmental hazards are considered
to be low. Samples of soil and water from streams would be taken regularly
by Tsetse Control staff and analyzed at Mount Makulu.
4.23      The Project would finance the purchase of one lorry, one four-wheel-
drive vehicle, one tractor-trailer, 80 knapsack sprayers and the chemicals
required, and the costs of vehicle operations and staff for both spraying and
monitoring.
Project Planning, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24      Project planning, coordination and monitoring.  The Project would
strengthen the ability of the office of the PPS for the Eastern Province to
plan and monitor Project implementation. The Project would finance the
employment of a Senior Planning Officer and a Senior Finance Officer (both of
whom would need to be internationally-recruited) by MAWD, housing and transport
costs for the staff, and the employment of two junior Planning Officers by
MAWD as counterparts, four accounts assistants and two accounts clerks, all of
whom would be Zambians. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ
would appoint qualified counterpart staff to the Senior Planning Officer and
Senior Finance Officer, respectively.
4.25      Evaluation.  Evaluation of the Project-s impact would be carried out
by the Rural Development Studies Bureau (RDSB) of the University of Zambia.
The Project would finance the costs of employing and housing a Research
Officer (probably at Senior Lecturer or Assistant Professor level) by the
RDSB, and the costs of evaluation operations, including the employment of
enumerators as necessary. Data processing facilities at the University would
be available to the Research Officer, who would be able to employ students
during vacations to carry out field work. During the first two years of the
Project, the Research Officer would carry out a baseline survey of the Eastern
Province, which would cover cropping patterns, crop yields, use of technical
packages, farm incomes, etc. In later years, the Research Officer would carry
out in depth studies on particular topics (para 5.14).
C. Project Costs
.26      The total cost of the Project is estimated at K 23.3 million (US$29.1
million), of which US$16.0 million (55%) represents the foreign exchange costs.
These costs include about K 0.8 million of taxes and duties, comprised mainly
of income taxes levied by GRZ on the salaries of incremental local staff and
sales taxes on petroleum products and building materials. The phasing of Proj-
ect costs is given in Annex 1, Table T-5, and costs for each of the components
are detailed in Annex 1, Tables T-6 through T-12. Project costs are summarized
below:



- 29 -
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  FE  Cost
------K  000-------  -----US$  000------  %    %
Research                       1,291  1,242  2,533  1,614  1,552  3,166  49   16
Extension                      2,684  3,349  6,033  3,355  4,186  7,541  56   37
Input Delivery                   627    896  1,523    784  1,120  1,904  59    9
Credit - Incremental Funds        -   1,000  1,000       -   1,250  1,250 100    6
- Technical Assistance  531  1,007  1,538    664  1,259  1,923  65   10
Processing                       721    533  1,254    901    666  1,567  42    8
Tsetse Control                   193    298    491    241    373    614  61    3
Administration                 1,018    776  1,794  1,273    970  2,243  43   11
Total Base Cost                7,065  9,101 16,166  8,832 11,376 20,208  56  100
Physical Contingencies           630    630  1,260    788    787  1,575  50    8
Price Contingencies            2,942  2,942  5,884  3,678  3,677  7,355  50   36
Total Project Cost            10,637 12,673 23,310 13,298 15,840 29,138  54  144
Taxes & Duties                   810       -    810  1,014       -  1,014   -    -
Total Project Cost (Net)       9,827 12,673 22,500 12,284 15,840 28,124  56  139
Project costs have been estimated on the basis of March 1981 prices.  Physical
contingencies have been included at a rate of 20% on the costs of the insecti-
cide packing plant and ginnery improvements, for which designs and detailed
costings are not yet available, and at a rate of 10% on all other costs except
salaries. Price contingencies on imported vehicles, equipment and inter-
nationally-recruited staff and consultants have been included at annual rates
of 12% in 1980, 10.5% in 1981, 9% in 1982, 8% in 1983 and 7% thereafter. In
the case of local costs, price contingencies have been included at an annual
rate of 12% throughout the Project period. Price contingencies total 36% of
Project baseline costs.
4.27      Project costs include incremental operating expenses (above the 1979
level) for research, extension and Project management, totalling K 9.3 million
(US$11.6 million equivalent), including contingencies. After PY6, these costs
would be fully met by GRZ from its recurrent budget. In order to avoid the
sudden imposition of these costs on the recurrent budget in PY7, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that these costs would be progressively
transferred from the GRZ development budget to the recurrent budget during
PY3-PY6. Annex 1, Table T-13, indicates the proposed phasing of this transfer.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ would maintain its
non-incremental recurrent expenditures on research and extension services
in the Eastern Province at levels not below those of 1979, in real terms.
Moreover, IBRD disbursement against salaries and wages of incremental local
staff would be on a declining basis (para. 4.33f).



- 30 -
D. Financing
4.28      The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and duties, would be as
follows:
US$ Million             %
IBRD                               11.0                  39
IFAD                               11.0                  39
Government of Zambia                6.1                  22
28.1                100
The proposed Bank loan of US$11.0 million would be for a period of 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period to the Government of Zambia and would cover
part of the foreign exchange costs of the Project (US$16.0 million) and 25% of
the local costs, or about 39% of total Project costs, net of taxes and
duties. IFAD would provide US$11.0 million equivalent or 39% of the total
Project costs. Both Bank and IFAD loans would cover all foreign costs and 50%
of local costs. Except for incremental credit and technical assistance, the
Bank and IFAD would finance the Project cost categories on a 50-50 basis. GRZ
would finance the remaining US$6.1 million.
4.29      IBRD and IFAD funds and GRZ contributions for the research, extension,
tsetse control and Project coordination and evaluation components (K 14.7
million, including contingencies) would be channelled to the Permanent Secretary,
MAWD, and would be subwarranted by him to the PPS, Eastern Province, and
hence to the agencies responsible for implementation. IBRD and IFAD funds and
GRZ contributions for the incremental credit, construction of stores and the
procurement of incremental fertilizer, seed and pesticide requirements (K 2.0
million including contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to ECU as loan.
IBRD and IFAD funds and GRZ contributions for the construction of storage, an
insecticide packing plant and ginnery improvements and the procurement of
incremental cotton insecticides and sprayers (K 2.8 million including contin-
gencies) would be channelled by C-RZ to LINTCO as loan. It would be a condition
for loan effectiveness that GRZ would have executed subsidiary loan agreements
acceptable to the Bank with ECU and LINTCO respectively stipulating the
conditions and terms for such loans. IBRD funds and GRZ contribution for
technical assistance to ZADB of about K 1.3 million would be channelled by GRZ
as a grant and for part of incremental credit (K 0.24 million including
contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to ZADB as a loan. IBRD and IFAD
funds and GRZ contributions for technical assistance to ECU and for the
purchase of groundnut shellers (0.7 million including contingencies) would be
channelled by GRZ to ECU on a grant basis. Agreement on this proposed financ-
ing plan was reached during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained
at negotiations that the funds required for the research, extension, tsetse
control and Project coordination and evaluation components would be deposited
by GRZ quarterly in advance in a separate Project account controlled by the
PPS, Eastern Province, and that the funds required for implementation of other
components would be made available in a timely manner to the implementing
agencies involved. It was further agreed during negotiations that the
establishment of the Project Account and the initial quarterly deposit by GRZ
would be a condition for Loan effectiveness.
4.30      In view of the importance to the Project of timely delivery to farm-
ers of adequate supplies of inputs and prompt payment by marketing agencies
to farmers for their crops, assurances were obtained during negotiations



- 31 -
that GRZ would ensure that ECU, LINCO and NAMB would receive adequate for-
eign exchange and local currency allocations to enable these organizations
to effectively discharge their input delivery and marketing functions in the
Eastern Province.
4.31      To enable GRZ to initiate Project start-up activities, the Bank
approved in January 1980 the provision of a total of US$975,000 to GRZ through
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the appointment of key staff (and
the procurement of related staff housing and vehicles), the recruitment of
technical assistance staff to help launch ZADB and, to allow for delivery
delays of up to a year, the procurement of the vehicles required for the
reorganization of the extension services in PY2. As at April 30, 1981,
US$205,000 has been disbursed from these PPF funds and a further US$77,000 has
been committed in connection with the technical assistance to ZADB (para
4.16). Arrangements are underway to recruit key project staff (para 4.24)
before July 31, 1981.
E. Procurement
4.32      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Specifically, 1/
(a)  orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery and equipment
(US$2.5 million) would be bulked as far as practicable. Orders
expected to cost US$100,000 and above would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) from suppliers who maintain
or agree to maintain in Zambia adequate after-sales service and
inventories of spare parts;
(b)  orders for vehicles, machinery and equipment estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 and totalling about US$480,000, would be
procured in accordance with existing local procedures, which are
satisfactory;
(c)  the construction of housing, stores, the insecticide packing plant
and ginnery improvements (US$2.6 million) would be too small and
scattered to attract international interest. Procurement would
therefore be by contracts awarded following local competitive
bidding, although foreign firms would be entitled to compete;
(d)  the rehabilitation of extension housing (US$0.4 million) in the
Eastern Province would be carried out, as far as is feasible,
by local contractors selected after local competitive bidding.
Rehabilitation work which is not suitable for contractors, and
the construction of wells at agricultural camps (US$0.1 million)
would be carried out by force account by PCW;
(e)  incremental requirements of fertilizer and pesticides (US$0.6
million) would be bulked with overall national requirements, and
procured by NAMB through ICB, as at present. Incremental require-
ments of cotton insecticides and sprayers (US$0.7 million) would be
1/   All figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 32 -
bulked with overall national requirements and procured by LINTC0
through ICB. Incremental requirements of seeds (US$0.2 million)
would be procured by purchase from Zambia Seed Company in
accordance with present practices, which are satisfactory;
(f) the selection and employment of consultants (US$1.5 million) would
be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$100,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before bid invitations
are issued, and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to the
Bank for comments prior to award of contracts. In the evaluation of bids for
(a) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference of
15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined above
would be followed, and that all consultants would be employed under terms of
reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank.
F. Disbursements
4.33      Disbursement of Bank loan funds would be on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 80% of the local
cost of vehicles, spares and equipment (US$2.4 million);
(b) 95 percent of the total cost of construction of staff housing,
wells, irrigation systems, stores, the insecticide packing plant
and the ginnery improvements (US$2.4 million);
(c) 100 percent of the total cost of technical assistance, consultancy
services, evaluation and study tours (US$4.0 million);
(d) 100 percent of incremental credit requirements (US$0.3 million);
(e) 100 percent of the foreign cost and 80% of the local cost of
sprayers and chemicals for tsetse control component (US$0.2
million);
(f) 70 percent of the salaries and wages of incremental local staff
financed under the Project (US$1.3 million), with disbursements
on a declining scale as follows: 100% until US$1.0 million has
been disbursed, 90% until US$1.5 million has been disbursed,
70% until US$1.9 million has been disbursed; and 30% thereafter.
(g) an unallocated amount representing contingencies on the above
items and transferable to them as required (US$0.4 million).
4.34      Disbursements under (a) , (b), (c) and (e) would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (d) would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure
signed by the General Manager of ZADB. Disbursements against (f) would be on
the basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the PPS, Eastern Province
and the General Manager of ECU respectively. For disbursements under both (d)
and (f), supporting documents would be retained for inspection by supervision



- 33 -
missions. Loan funds remaining at Project completion would be cancelled,
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. A schedule showing the estimated pattern
of loan disbursements is at Annex 1, Table T-14.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.35      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate accounts
relating to expenditures under the Project would be kept by the PPS, Eastern
Province and by LINTCO, ZADB and ECU, that these accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that such audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial
year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the procedures
used for control of disbursement against certificates of expenditure. Audited
accounts for ECU and LINTCO are normally produced within 6 months of the end
of the financial year. ZADB, being recently established, has not yet had to
produce accounts, but AFC and CFC (the organizations that ZADB would replace)
normally produce audited accounts within 6 months of the end of the financial
year. Auditing of the accounts of all GRZ ministries and departments is
normally completed by the Auditor-General, and an audit report submitted to
Parliament within a year of the end of each financial year.
H. Environmental Impact
4.36      The existing insecticide packing plant at Chipata poses unacceptably
high risks to the health of the workers. The new plant to be financed under
the Project would greatly reduce these risks by the installation of semi-
automatic equipment and by adequate provisions for dust control. For tsetse
control, DDT would be used to clear a small isolated area in Eastern Province
from the fly. The insecticide, applied at extremely low rates, would only be
sprayed on trunks of trees. Samples of soil and water from streams would be
taken regularly by Tsetse Control staff for analysis at Mount Makulu.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Reporting
5.01      Overall responsibility for Project planning, budgeting, monitoring
and reporting would rest with the PPS for the Eastern Province (para 2.01),
whose office would be strengthened under the Project by the provision of a
Senior Planning Officer (with supporting planning staff) and a Senior Finance
Officer (with supporting accounts staff) (para 4.24). The PPS would be
assisted with the SEC to be established within MAWD by January 31, 1982 and
whose functions would include reviewing, coordinating and approving the
budgets and work plans prepared by both the PPS and Research Officer. Annual
plans and costings for implementation of Project components on a quarterly
basis would be drawn up by the various implementing agencies involved and be
submitted to the PPS before May 31 to be reviewed and consolidated by the
Senior Planning Officer into a proposed program for the Project. The Senior



- 34 -
Finance Officer would at the same time draw up a consolidated budget request,
which would be submitted to the SEC. 1/ Policy decisions would be taken by the
SEC. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the preparation of
annual programs and the submission of budget requests would be completed by
June 30 2/ prior to the year to which they apply in accordance with normal GRZ
timing, and that the proposed annual program and budget request would be sent
to the Bank for comment immediately after they have been approved by the SEC.
Except for funds required for parastatal investments (which, following normal
GRZ procedures, would be accounted for under Loans and Investments) funds
would be provided to the Permanent Secretary, MAWD, and would be subwarranted
to the PPS, Eastern Province.
5.02      The Senior Planning Officer would, as a matter of priority, insti-
tute a quarterly system of reporting by implementing agencies to the PPS and
the SEC, similar to the system presently in use, but more explicitly relating
progress to the agreed annual work program. These reports would enable both
the SEC and the to monitor progress, and to identify bottlenecks and constraints
as a prelude to initiating remedial action. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these reports would be consolidated into an overall quarterly
progress report for the Project as a whole, which, together with data provided
by the Senior Finance Officer on Project expenditures and disbursements, would
be sent to the Bank through MAWD to arrive not later than two months after the
end of the quarter to which they refer.
B. Project Implementation
5.03      The Project would be implemented entirely through existing organi-
zations, strengthened under the Project as necessary. The ascription of
implementation responsibilities for the various components of the Project
would be in accordance with existing institutional arrangements. A chart
showing the anticipated scheduling of implementation of the various compo-
nents is at Annex 1, Chart C-1. The organizational arrangements for the
implementation of each component would be as outlined below and illustrated
in Annex 1, Chart C-2.
5.04      Research.  Implementation of the Project's research component would
be the overall responsibility of the Chief Agricultural Research Officer
(CARO) in MAWD. In particular, the recruitment of the additional staff re-
quired would be the responsibility of the CARO, who would also procure the
specialized equipment and infrastructural improvements to be financed under
the Project. The research staff would be employed by MAWD and posted to the
Eastern Province but would receive administrative supervision from the Officer
in Charge of the Msekera Regional Research Station. On technical matters,
however, these staff would receive supervision from the leaders of the research
1/   The composition of the SEC includes the PS of MAWD (Chairman) PS of
Ministry of Finance and National Commission for Development Planning,
MAWD's directors of agriculture, of vaterinary services and tsetse
control and planning, general managers of ECU, LINTCO and ZADB.
2/   In PY1 a supplementary budget would be required since the fiscal year
begins in January and the Project would become effective after June 1981.



- 35 -
teams to which they would be assigned. The Provincial Commissioner of Works
(PCW) would be responsible for the drawing up of tender documents for housing
required (all of standard design), administering the prescribed tendering
procedure and for supervision of construction.
5.05      Agricultural Extension.  The Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO)
would have overall responsibility for the implementation of this component.
Direct responsibility for the detailed planning of the reorganization of
extension services would be with the Provincial Extension Management Officer
(PEMO) financed under the Project. He would work closely with the District
Agricultural Officers (DAO's) in drawing up, for each district, detailed plans
for the construction and renovation of housing and other infrastructure, allo-
cation of vehicles, reassignment of staff and the introduction of the proposed
work programming and supervision arrangements. Implementation of the reorgani-
zation in each district would be the responsibility of the DAO's who manage
the extension services in their districts. However, the PEMO would assist the
DAO's as necessary to resolve problems that arise in the course of reorganiza-
tion. The existing Provincial Extension Training Officer would have direct
responsibility for planning and implementing the improved program of staff
training. He would work closely in this with the heads of the Farm Institute
and Farmer Training Centers in the Province, and with training specialists in
MAWD headquarters. MAWD would employ the PEMO, the Provincial Farm Management
Officer and the Seed Production Officer and Post them to Eastern Province.
5.06      The PCW would have responsibility for drawing up tender documents,
for administering the tendering process and for the supervision of construc-
tion through his District Building Officers. In the case of rehabilitation,
the PCW would determine the repairs required, and would arrange for the work
required to be carried out, either by contractors if this is feasible, or by
force account. The Provincial Water Engineer would be responsible for imple-
menting the proposed program of borehole construction at agricultural camps
by force account through existing drilling teams.
5.07      Input Delivery.  ECU (paras 2.12-2.13) would be responsible for
the construction of the improved storage under the Project. ECU would con-
struct these stores in accordance with NAMB's designs, already approved by the
Bank, and with the help of the PCW would draw up tender documents administer
the tender process and supervise construction by local contractors. ECU would
purchase, distribute to rural depots and sell to farmers the fertilizer and
seeds financed under the Project. Designs for the small stores to be used by
LINTCO (paras 2.03-2.05) for the distribution of cotton insecticides would be
drawn up by the PCW, whose staff would supervise their construction by con-
tractors selected after local competitive bidding.
5.08      Agricultural Credit.  The General Manager of ECU (paras 2.15,
2.16) would be responsible, with the assistance of MAWD's Cooperative and
Marketing Department, for the recruitment of the credit specialist financed
under the Project, and for the overall implementation of the measures to
strengthen ECU's credit scheme, including disbursing credit to primary
cooperatives and individual members. The General Manager of ZADB (paras 2.06,
2.11) would recruit the specialist credit staff and consultants for ZADB, and
would manage their operations.



- 36 -
5.09      Agricultural Processing.  Once suitable groundnut decorticators have
been selected (para 4.19), ECU would be responsible for their procurement.
Detailed proposals for the installation of these decorticators would be
drawn up only after the identification of the type to be used. LINTCO would
employ consultants to draw up designs and tender documents for the construction
of the new insecticide plant and the other infrastructure improvements at the
Chipata ginnery, and to supervise construction by contractors selected follow-
ing local competitive bidding.
5.10      Tsetse Control.  Implementation of this component would be the over-
all responsibility of the Provincial Tsetse Control Officer, assisted by the
Provincial Tsetse Control Biologist. Each of the eight spraying teams would
be under the control of a Tsetse Scout (certificate-level staff) who would
at the outset train the staff of each team in the proper procedures to be
followed. Spraying operations would be planned by the District Tsetse Control
Officer in Petauke, in consultation with the Tsetse Control Biologist, and the
actual spraying operations would be managed by the District Tsetse Control
Officer. The Tsetse Control Biologist would be responsible for monitoring the
environmental effects of the spray program.
5.11      Crop Marketing.  Incremental crop production would be purchased
from farmers by ECU for resale to millers and consumers in the province and to
NAMB and LINTCO. ECU would continue to handle the export marketing of ground-
nuts produced in the province.
C. Staffing
5.12      The Project would as far as possible utilize existing staff, endow
them with active and meaningful roles and with supporting investments and
resources and thus render productive an important but underutilized resource.
Existing staff would be supplemented by a total of 15 internationally-recruited
staff - five for the research component (para 4.04), two for the extension com-
ponent (para 4.07), five for the credit component (paras 4.15, 4.16) and three
for Project planning, coordination and evaluation (paras 4.24, 4.26) - who
would be financed under the Project for a total of 61 man-years, at an average
cost per man-year, including salary, benefits and local allowances, of K
63,000 (US$79,000 equivalent) and be employed by MAWD but seconded to the PPS
office in Chipata. In addition, the Project provides financing for about
12 man-months of short-term consultancy, which would be at an average cost per
man-month, including salaries, overhead costs, international and local travel
and local allowances of about K 7,000 (US$8,600 equivalent). A total of about
90 incremental local staff would also be employed under the Project.
5.13      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all internation-
ally-recruited staff would be appointed by December 31, 1981, that the Bank
would be consulted, prior to appointment, on the suitability, in terms of
qualifications and experience, of all internationally-recruited staff financed
under the Project, and would also be consulted prior to the appointment of
successor staff to these positions. Assurances were also obtained that all
internationally recruited staff would, for the duration of the Project, be



- 37 -
employed under terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank. It was agreed during negotiations that the appointment of the
Senior Planning Officer, Financial Controller and the Provincial Extension
Management Specialist, after consultation with the Bank on qualifications and
experience, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that, in view of their importance in Project imple-
mentation, the posts of Provincial Agricultural Officer, Provincial Extension
Training Officer, Provincial Tsetse Control Officer, and Provincial Tsetse
Control Biologist would continue to be filled throughout the Project by
qualified and experienced staff.
D. Evaluation
5.14      Since the Project would be the first of its type in Zambia, it
would be important to monitor and evaluate closely the effects of the Project,
so that the lessons of implementation could be incorporated quickly into the
similar projects planned for other parts of the country. The evaluation of
the Project-s impact and results would be carried out by a Research Officer,
(financed under the Project), from the Rural Development Studies Bureau of the
University of Zambia. The evaluation exercise would consist of baseline
studies, on-going evaluation of project implementation and a post project
evaluation. The baseline studies, which would provide a point of reference
for evaluating project impact, would focus on three main issues - the numbers
and characteristics of farmers already using improved techniques, the yields
and incomes obtained from the various crops, under both traditional and
improved production methods, and the cropping patterns of smallholders in the
Eastern Province. The annual evaluation exercise would focus on the effects
of Project interventions (particularly the reorganization of the extension
service) and would bring to the attention of the regional authorities and the
SEC important trends and developing problems. The evaluation exercise would
also include ad-hoc study of topics of importance either for this Project or
for preparation of future phases. Possible subjects for examination would be
the nutritional status of the population, and the impact of extension on
female-headed households. The post-project evaluation exercise would analyze
final Project impact. It was agreed during negotiations that the SEC would
collaborate with the Research Officer in the design and planning of the
evaluation exercise and in reviewing the results. It was further agreed that
the terms of reference drawn up for any evaluation study would be sent to the
Bank for comment and that any evaluation reports produced would be sent to the
Bank for comment when they become available. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, within six months of the completion of disbursements, GRZ
would prepare, taking into account the findings of the evaluation exercise,
and submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report, analyzing the implementation
of the Project and its impact in relation to its objectives.



- 38 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Technical Packages and Yields
6.01      The target group for the Project's extension component comprises
farmers who grow crops to meet subsistence needs, although some may be able
to market surpluses in good years. The staple food in the Project area is
local varieties of maize, which are normally planted without fertilizer in
widely-spaced groups with some inter-planting of minor crops. Land prepara-
tion and seeding are normally carried out by hand labor or by oxen if these
are available. Typically, a farm family would also grow groundnuts (of the
Chalimbana variety) for home consumption. Reliable data on patterns are not
available, but based on estimated yields of 1,080 kg/ha of maize and 480 kg/ha
of groundnuts, the average farm family in the Eastern Province is estimated
to cultivate about 0.7 ha of traditional maize and 0.25 ha of Chalimbana
groundnuts, which would provide about 85% of calorie and protein requirements,
as observed by a 1972 nutrition study.
6.02      Improved technical packages for maize, sunflower and cotton produc-
tion have been available in the Eastern Province for some time, and their
viability under smallholder conditions has been shown by the recorded expan-
sion in crop output. The dissemination of these packages, and the growing
of Makulu Red groundnuts, would be pursued through the reorganized extension
service. For each crop the improved techniques involved, and the estimated
yield improvements, are discussed below, and summarized in Annex 1, Table
T-15.
6.03      Maize.  The use of hybrid SR52 is recommended in the Eastern Prov-
ince. A composite variety (ZCA) is available, but is significantly lower
yielding, and has not proved popular with farmers. Hybrid maize should be
planted in carefully spaced rows, and dressed with 100-200 kg per ha of a
2ON-lOP-5K-10S compound fertilizer as a basal dressing followed by a top
dressing of 100-200 kg/ha of ammonium nitrate or urea. Applications by the
target group are in fact likely to be at the lower end of the recommended
ranges. DDT (10 kg/ha) is recommended to control pests. Under research con-
ditions, fertilizer application at these levels has resulted in yields of
dry grain ranging from 4,000 kg to 10,000 kg per ha, and a limited field
survey recorded average small farmer yields of 3,200 kg/ha. In the analysis
of this Project, yields have been projected at 2,250 kg/ha for hand cultiva-
tors, and at 2,700 kg/ha for ox-cultivators to reflect more thorough and
timely land preparation, planting and weeding.
6.04      Cotton.  Cotton is grown both on the plateau and in the Luangwa
Valley. Soils and climate in the Valley are well suited to cotton growing,
and higher average yields are obtained there than on the plateau. Fertilizer
is not recommended for use, and the majority of farmers use none. However,
although insect control is the main determinant of yield, verification trials
to determine local responses to fertilizer application (e.g. on the light
sandy soils) are needed, and would be carried out as part of the expanded
research program (paras 4.04, 4.05). Chief cotton pests are spiny, American
and red bollworms, jassids and stainers. Attempts have been made in the past
to link spraying with pest scouting, but this proved difficult. The recom-
mended practice is now to apply 10 sprays (of carbaryl, endosulphan, and
solubor to counteract boron deficiency). Spraying is usually by knapsack



- 39 -
sprayers. ULV sprayers and spray packs are available, but when used under
experimental conditions, have given lower yields than conventional sprays.
Under experimental conditions, cotton in the Valley has given yields as high
as 2,500-3,000 kg per ha, and on the plateau 1,300-2,500 kg. Average yields
on farmers fields have fluctuated from 500-900 kg of seed cotton per ha, with
some farmers regularly achieving 1,500-2,500 kg/ha. For Project analysis, a
yield of 700 kg/ha has been assumed.
6.05      Sunflower is a comparatively undemanding crop, requiring a shorter
growing period (140 days) than SR52 maize (170 days). In consequence, it can
be planted after the main crops, spreading the labor peak. The crop is well
suited to the ecology of the Province and is at present comparatively free of
serious pests and diseases. The application of fertilizer does not appear
economic, and farmers do not use fertilizer on the crop, but it reportedly
benefits from following a previously-fertilized maize crop. Under research
conditions, yields from the recommended Black Russian Giant variety have
varied between 900 and 2,000 kg/ha. For Project analysis, a yield of 400
kg/ha has been assumed.
6.06      Makulu Red groundnuts.  At present, only Chalimbana groundnuts are
grown in the Eastern Province. This is a confectionary variety which, because
of its irregular shape and size, is not suitable for mechanical shelling. MAWD
is now proposing to introduce into the Province for the first time the Makulu
Red variety, which has a much higher oil content, give higher yields and can
be mechanically shelled (para 4.19). In research trials in the Eastern Prov-
ince, Makulu Red has given yields of 1,800 kg-2,400 kg/ha, compared with
Chalimbana yields of 1,000-1,600 kg/ha. Farmer's yields from Makulu Red are
projected, on the basis of experience in other provinces of Zambia, to average
960 kg/ha as opposed to an estimated average yield of 500 kg/ha for Chalimbana
groundnuts.
B. Cropping Patterns
6.07      The limiting factor in increasing the area cropped by hand cultiva-
tors in the Eastern Province is not land availability but the labor bottleneck
which develops at the time of land preparation and planting. Analysis of crop
calendars and labor inputs for the major crops (Annex 1, Table T-16) and of
labor inputs by month (Annex 1, Table T-17) indicates that growing of the 0.7
ha of maize and 0.25 ha of Chalimbana groundnuts required to meet family
subsistence needs (para. 6.01) requires only about 50% of available family
labor (about 45 man-days for the average family) during the peak months of
November and December. In the estimation of the effects of the introduction
of technical packages on cropping patterns, it is assumed that the area of
hybrid maize, cotton, sunflower or Makulu Red groundnuts would be cultivated
in addition to subsistence cropping, and together with subsistence crops would
fully utilize family labor supply at the peak period. It has thus been
assumed that subsistence production would not be reduced, and that no labor
hiring would occur. On these assumptions, the effects of the Project have
been analyzed on the basis that farmers innovating under the Project would
conform to one of the four following model cropping patterns, the labor
utilization implications of which are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-17:



- 40 -
Total    Hybrid   Seed                Makulu Red  Local  Chalimbana
Model    Area      Maize   Cotton  Sunflower  Groundnuts  Maize  Groundnuts
(ha)     --------------------------(ha)--------------------------
I      1.60       0.70    ---       ---          ---       0.66      0.24
II      1.62       ---     0.72      ---          ---       0.66       0.24
III      2.34       ---      ---      1.44         ---       0.66       0.24
IV      1.33       ---     ---       ---          0.43      0.66       0.24
C. Production Increases
6.08      Increases in crop production under the Project would arise as a
result of the dissemination to farmers who have not already adopted them,
of the technical packages outlined above. These innovations are, and are
expected to remain, attractive to small farmers (para 7.03). Each village-
level extension agent would be in direct contact with about 120 contact
farmers, and, through them, in indirect contact with a further 120 farmers.
It is estimated that, over a ten-year period, about 60% of these farmers would
adopt the innovations recommended by the extension service. It is further
assumed that the effects of improved extension would not begin to be felt
until the second crop season after the introduction of the improved extension
service. Annex 1, Table T-18 details projected incremental production on the
assumption that, of the innovators, 40% correspond to Model I, 30% to Model
II, 15% to Model III and 15% to Model IV; these proportions roughly correspond
to present cash cropping patterns in the Province. In summary, the changes in
crop production under the Project are expected to be:
PY6       PY16 and onwards
(full development)
Number of innovators                                 6,348             26,200
Incremental area (ha) total,                         4,964            20,491
of which:  maize                                   1,777             7,336
cotton                                 1,404              5,795
sunflower                              1,404              5,795
groundnuts                                379             1,565
Incremental production (m tons) - maize              2,259             16,506
- cotton             564             4,057
- sunflower          332             2,312
- groundnuts         231             1,502
6.09      The tsetse control component of the Project would increase livestock
production by eliminating trypanosomiasis in cattle kept in areas bordering
the area to be sprayed. The magnitude of the expected benefits is detailed in
Annex 1, Table T-19. It is estimated that, in each year after the completion
of the spraying program, 230 head that would have died would survive, about 35
tons of additional weight gain would occur annually at a rate of 15 kg per
head on the 2,070 cattle that would otherwise contract trypanosomiasis and
survive and that milk production would increase by about 41,000 liters, as a
result of a 5% increase in milk yield on the 760 lactating cows that would
otherwise contract trypanosomiasis.



- 41 -
D. Markets
6.10      The Project-s incremental production of hybrid maize, cotton, ground-
nuts and sunflower would be marketed through ECU in the same way as existing
crop surpluses. It is not expected that any of the projected increased pro-
duction would be utilized for home consumption, since these production pro-
jections have been drawn up on the assumption that farm families will continue
to grow their subsistence requirements of local maize and Chalimbana ground-
nuts. Increased beef production would be marketed through CSB, while increased
milk supplies would be marketed locally.
6.11      Maize.  The Eastern Province is at present a net exporter of maize
to the rest of Zambia, and this is expected to continue. For Zambia as a
whole, in the 1979/80 marketing season, demand for maize exceeded local supply
by about 300,000 tons (about 50% of demand), but this was as a result of short-
term factors (climate, late arrival of inputs) which would not be expected to
recur regularly. In the medium- and long-terms, Zambia is expected to again
become self sufficient in maize and to have exportable surpluses in some years.
Zambia's traditional export market has been and is expected to continue to be
south-west Zaire.
6.12      Cotton Lint.  As a result of the doubling of production in 1979/80,
Zambia Cotton production is currently in excess of local demand had been
exported at a loss to LINTCO. There is considerable potential for further
expansion of local cotton textile manufacture, since 60% of cotton fabric
consumption in Zambia is met by imports, and projects already under way will
almost triple local demand for lint during the next two years. New as well as
additional expansion plans for cotton processing are also being formulated,
but are at an early stage. The incremental production of cotton lint is
therefore expected to be absorbed locally, although some surplus for export
may sporadically occur before the planned expansion becomes operational.
6.13      Groundnuts, Sunflower and Cotton Seed.  Zambia currently meets only
about 40% of its oilseed needs from domestically produced oilseeds. The demand
for cooking oil in Zambia is estimated to be increasing at an annual rate of
at least 4%. For the foreseeable future, supply is likely to continue to
remain below demand. The same holds true for oilseed cake. Consequently, all
incremental production of oilseeds would be utilized domestically to replace
imports.
6.14      Livestock Products.  Imports of beef into Zambia are currently banned
as a foreign exchange saving measure, hence local supply equals consumption.
Prior to the institution of the import ban in 1977, Zambia imported about 40%
of its requirements, and domestic production has not expanded since then
sufficiently to keep consumption at pre-ban levels. Hence, all incremental
beef production under the Project would be locally consumed. In the case of
milk, there exists considerable excess demand in the rural areas of Eastern
Province and fresh milk is sold at prices considerably in excess of those
charged in town by official agencies.
E. Producer Prices
6.15      In evaluating the financial effects of the project on farmers, two
alternative assumptions on input and producer prices have been analyzed.



- 42 -
Under Price Assumption I, producer and input prices for commodities except
milk remain constant, in real terms, at the 1980/81 levels. Milk has been
valued at prevailing local market prices. Under Price Assumption II, farm
gate prices for commodities other than maize and milk have been taken as the
import parity prices at Lusaka less all costs of marketing and transport from
the Eastern Province to Lusaka. In the case of maize, the price assumed is
the 1980/81 producer price raised to give the same return to mechanized pro-
ducers as in 1980/81, taking account of the projected increase in fertilizer
prices. For milk, prices have been assumed to remain at present prevailing
prices. Input prices under Price Assumption II are the same in real terms as
in Assumption I with the important exception that cotton insecticide prices
have been reduced by about 30% to reflect the fact that the commission NAMB
charges LINTCO will no longer be payable when LINTCO imports on its own
account, and that fertilizer prices have been assumed to rise to import
parity prices, delivered Lusaka. The producer prices and fertilizer prices
assumed are:
Item                     Unit  Price Assumption I  Price Assumption II
------------------(K)------------------
Maize                                kg           0.13                   0.15
Seed Cotton:  Grade A                kg           0.46                   0.56
Grade B               kg           0.40                   0.49
Grade C               kg           0.37                   0.45
Makulu Red Groundnuts                kg           0.35                   0.51
Sunflower                            kg           0.27                  0.27
Fertilizer: 20-10-5 mixture          kg           0.24                   0.30
Urea                    kg           0.23                   0.31
: Ammonium nitrate        kg           0.22                  0.28
Cotton Spray Packs                  each         18.60                  12.60
Beef                            kg liveweight    1.10                    1.10
Milk                                litre         0.25                   0.25
Details of the calculation of the prices under Assumption II for seed cotton,
groundnuts, sunflower and beef are given in Annex 1, Tables T-20, T-21 and
T-22.
6.16      It would be vital to the success of the Project that producer prices
continue to offer attractive returns to producers who adopt the improved tech-
nical packages. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in order
to maintain producer incentives, GRZ would continue to review producer and
fertilizer prices annually, taking into account the costs of production of
small-scale producers and the levels of border prices for the various crops,
and would discuss agricultural pricing policy with the Bank on a two year basis.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Effects on Farmers
Beneficiaries
7.01      The targetted beneficiaries for the crop component would be farm
households currently not using improved practices. This group is currently



- 43 -
estimated to number about 87,000 farm households, representing about 375,000
people, about 60% of the Eastern Province's population.  As a result of the
improvements in extension and input delivery under the Project, it is esti-
mated that, at full development (PY 16) about 26,200 families (about 26% of
the target group) would have adopted improved cultivation techniques and would
be marketing a crop surplus. The Project would also benefit farmers not in
this target group through more timely input delivery through the improvements
in NAMB and LINTCO input storage, in the delivery of seasonal and medium-term
credit and in agricultural research. However, it is not possible to estimate
the number of farmers benefitted by these investments, or the degree to which
they would benefit. The Project's tsetse control component would benefit the
approximately 2,300 stock-owners who own the 23,000 head of cattle currently
at risk as a result of the presence of tsetse fly in the area to be sprayed
under the Project.
Incremental Farm Incomes
7.02      Hectare budgets for maize, Makulu Red groundnuts, cotton and sun-
flower are given in Annex 1, Tables T-23 and T-24 under each of the producer
price assumptions (para 6.15). The effects of adoption of improved technical
packages on farm incomes (in real terms) are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-25
for each of the farm models (para 6.07) and under each of the producer price
assumptions, and are summarized below:
Farm Model:                I             II             III            IV
Price Assumption:    I        II      I      II      I       II     I       II
Without Project
Net crop income (K)           120    152    120    152    120    152    120    152
Net Farm income (K)           142    179    142    179    142    179    142    179
With Project
Incremental gross
income (K)                  205    236    228    278    156    156    144    211
Incremental costs (K)          63      75     87      66      21     21      36     46
Net incremental income (K)  142    161    141    212    135    135    108    165
Gross benefit/cost ratio    3.3    3.2    2.6    4.2    7.4    7.4    4.0    4.6
Incremental labor input
(man-day)                    95     95    118    118    121    121    101    101
Return to incremental
labor (K)                  1.49   1.69   1.19   1.80   1.12   1.12   1.07   1.63
Total net crop income (K)   262    313    261    364    255    272    228    317
Total net farm income (K)   284    340    283    391    277    299    250    344
% increase over 'without
project'                    100     90      99    118      95      67      76     92
7.03      Increases in farm incomes that would result from adoption of improved
crop packages under the Project would range from 67% to 118%, and as a result
farm incomes per head would rise from K 33-K 42 (US$41-$53) to K 48-K 91 (US$73-
$114). Farm cash flows would not be a major problem because of the short-term
nature of investments (fertilizer and seed) required for the production of
annual crops. As indicated in para 6.07, the above models would also assume
no change in levels of subsistence production. Nor is it expected that levels
of off-farm activities would be affected significantly. The benefit/cost



- 44 -
ratios and returns to each man-day of incremental labor would be attractive to
farmers. The tsetse control component would raise incomes for livestock
owners in the affected areas by about K38 (US$48) per annum.
B. Financial Effects on ECU
7.04      A normal financial analysis of ECU could not be done because (a) the
valuation of assets and the exact form of their transfer from NAMB to ECU are
yet to be finalized; and (b) ECU's medium and long-term investment program
based on the new and old activities would be worked out after the transfer
exercise has been completed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would cause ECU to prepare a plan satisfactory to the Bank
by January 31, 1982 which should include (a) ECU's financial position as
reflected on its projected balance sheets, sources and application of funds
statements, profit and loss accounts; and (b) a capital investment plan
indicating the type and sources of finance envisaged within the next five
years, beginning January 1982.
7.05      Even with the Project, ECU-s operating revenue and profit would
continue to depend primarily on trading activities (crop marketing and input
distribution) and hence on Government "restitution" for trading costs and
price differentials (for inputs only since price differential on crops has
been removed w.e.f. January 1981), since the pricing policy, as presently
determined by Government, does not include any mark-ups in commodity prices.
At present Government "restitution" to ECU covers all direct and indirect
costs except the following: insurance, interest, depreciation, losses and
audit fees. Instead, these together with the primary societies levy are
supposed to be covered by a commission at the rate of 10% of purchase price,
but in actual fact does not cover them. No provision for a reasonable rate of
return on ECU's equity capital is made under the present restitution arrange-
ment. In order to improve and assure the financial integrity of ECU and to
provide financial incentives and efficiency within the cooperative marketing
system, assurances were obtained during negotiations that GRZ would pay ECU a
service charge in advance reflecting all trading costs and providing for a
reasonable rate of return both computed on the basis of agreed principles 1/
and on annual procurement plan, prepared by ECU in consultation with the
Planning Unit in the PPS office, containing all items ECU intends to purchase
or distribute in the following year and would be submitted to GRZ by October
31, each year 2/.
7.06      Under the assumption of a continuation of the present pricing and
marketing policy and that ECU would continue to handle all crops and inputs
and part of agricultural credit in the Province, including incremental
amounts under the Project, other identifiable financial benefits accruing to
ECU would include (a) some reduction in input losses through improved practices
1/   The agreed principles are specified in a supplemental letter to the Loan
Agreement.
2/   To be ready for inclusion in annual budget before January.



- 45 -
and better facilities; (b) decreased unit fixed costs as a result of increased
crop and input throughputs, and (c) decreased cost of credit administration
by ECU resulting from the provision of technical service and the linking of
crop marketing and input distribution with agricultural credit under the same
organization and management.
C. Cost Recovery and Government Cash Flow
7.07      The Project would not increase directly generated revenue to GRZ, as
there are no taxes or cesses levied on farm production. However, it is likely
that there would be a marked increase in spending by Project beneficiaries on
consumer goods, many of which are taxed. As a result, it is expected that
revenues from indirect taxation would increase, although quantification of
this is not possible. Project beneficiaries would pay prices which would re-
flect full costs of all credit, seed and pesticides. However, under present
GRZ policy which subsidizes fertilizer below import parity, cost recovery on
fertilizer would be approximately 60%. In view of GRZ's current financial
constraints, it is expected that subsidy levels would be gradually reduced, so
that farmers in Eastern Province would pay import parity price for fertilizers
landed Lusaka, with GRZ continuing to subsidize the cost of transport from
Lusaka to the Eastern Province. Sales of seed and pesticides under the Proj-
ect would be, as at present, at prices fully covering handling costs.
7.08      The Project would involve the development of services (most notably,
research and extension) which would require long-term commitment by GRZ to
provision of staff and operating resources. The GRZ cash flows that would
result from Project implementation are presented in Table T-26. During the
period of disbursement of the Bank and IFAD loans, GRZ contributions to
Project costs would amount annually to about 2% of the 1980 MAWD capital
budget. The incremental annual recurrent cost burden accrueing to GRZ after
the completion of loan disbursements would be about K 1.1 million (in 1980
prices), or less than K 6 per rural family in the Eastern Province. This
represents about 5% of the 1980 MAWD recurrent budget (excluding subsidies),
which is a small increase, given the relatively low level of recurrent cost
funding available to MAWD at present (para. 1.09).
D. Foreign Exchange Implications
7.09      The impact of the Project on Zambia's balance of payments would
be favorable, as indicated in Table T-27. The Project would consistently
generate annual net foreign exchange inflows, which would total K 14.2 mil-
lion (US$17.8 million equivalent) during the period of loan disbursements.
Thereafter, the Project would continue to generate a net foreign exchange
inflow as a result of its production of import-substituting or, in the case of
maize and cotton, export crops and reduction in fertilizer losses. At full
development, the Project would result in net foreign exchange savings of about
K 5.5 million (US$6.9 million equivalent) annually.



- 46 -
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Benefits
8.01      The major quantifiable economic benefits of the Project would be:
the incremental production of maize, cotton, groundnuts and sunflower seed
resulting from the adoption of improved technical packages by smallholders;
incremental beef and milk production, which would result from the tsetse
eradication component; and reductions in losses of fertilizer and seed
which would result from the improvement of rural storage. It is assumed
that, without the Project, crop and livestock production levels, and input
losses, would remain constant, and that increased marketed crop production
would not result in reduced production of subsistence crops. Since the
commodities involved are all (with the exception of fresh milk) tradeables,
they have been valued at the relevant border prices (export prices to Zaire
in the case of maize and import prices for all other commodities except
cotton lint, some of which may occasionally be exported to EEC countries)
adjusted to reflect costs of transport and processing. The effect on the
Project of assuming that Zambia continues to import maize have also been
explored (para. 8.04). Fresh milk has been valued at local market prices.
The divergence between the economic value of foreign exchange to the Zambia
economy and the official exchange rate has been reflected by shadow-pricing
foreign exchange rate of K 0.98 = US$1.00 as against the official exchange
rate of K 0.80 = US$1.00.
8.02      In addition to the Project's quantifiable benefits, it is expected
that some unquantifiable benefits would accrue as a result of Project imple-
mentation. The investments in agricultural research would be expected to
result in the refinement and improvement of the technical packages offered to
the farmers, and hence to a more cost-effective use of inputs. Institution-
building investments within the Eastern Province administration are expected
to strengthen the capacity of local staff to plan and execute development
programs relevant to the Eastern Province. The provision of technical assis-
tance to ZADB and ECU is expected to assist those organizations to reduce the
costs of credit administration.
Economic Costs
8.03      The costs that have been taken into account in the economic analysis
of the Project are the capital and recurrent costs of the extension, tsetse
control, agricultural processing and rural input storage components, the costs
of incremental fertilizer, seed and the costs of insecticide requirements.
Thirty percent of the recurrent expenditures on research and extension were
excluded to take account of the shortfall in Government budgetary allocation
which were included in Project funding (para 4.02). These costs are not
incremental and, without the Project, they would have been provided by the
Government to maintain crop and livestock production constant as assumed in
para 8.01 of this report.   Incremental farm labor has been included at a
shadow wage of K 0.50 per manday, which is about 65% below the present official
minimum wage rate, to reflect the observed general under-employment of family
labor even at the time of peak agricultural labor input. All of the costs of
Project administration and evaluation have been included, although these expendi-
tures would have benefits beyond those accrueing to this Project. The costs of
the research, and credit components have been excluded, since Project benefits



- 47 -
from these components cannot be quantified. A total of 69% of Project costs
is included in the economic analysis. Foreign exchange has been shadow-priced
at K 0.98 = US$1.00 in the calculation of all economic costs.
Economic Rate of Return
8.04      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the Project has
been calculated for the Project over a 25-year period, on the basis of the
benefit and cost streams in Annex 1, Table T-28. The IERR is estimated at
12%; this would rise to 22% should Zambia remain a net maize importer and be
able to absorb all domestic cotton production. Separate rates of return have
been calculated for crop production (taking into account the costs of the
extension and input delivery components), tsetse control and rural input
storage. The results of these analyses are:
IERR with                          % of
Component           Maize and Cotton Exports  Maize Imports   Project Costs
Crop Production                         17                    33               36
Tsetse Control                           16                   16                4
Rural Input Storage                      15                   15                3
Overall Project Investments             12                    22               69
The relatively high IERR of the crop production investments is because they
would rely heavily on existing resources (such as extension staff) and would
lead to significant increases in production with only marginal increases in
on-farm costs.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
8.05      Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to examine the effects
of changes in cost and benefit assumptions on the IERR. At a 10% discount
rate (i.e., estimated opportunity cost of capital), a 17% decrease in crop
benefits resulting from poor farmer uptake or lower crop yields would be
necessary to render the component unacceptable. A 21% increase in the
component costs would have similar effects. For the Project as a whole, a 8%
reduction in benefits would render the Project unacceptable while a similar
increase in Project costs would have the same effect. The emphasis which the
Project places on reorganization and improvement of the extension service, and
on more responsive farm pricing policies, reduces the chance of this happening.
The effects of changes in the crop mix assumed (para. 6.08) have also been
explored. The crop which would give the lowest return to the farmer is
sunflower. Even if all farmers adopting improved technical packages under the
Project decided to grow sunflower, the crop production activities would still
have an IEER of 14%, which would result in an overall project IEER of 10%.
8.06      The Project poses certain definite risks.  As is the case for
similar projects elsewhere, the greatest risk is the possible inability of the
administrations and agencies involved to implement the proposed program in a
timely and effective manner. The current problems of morale, mobility,
training and supervision could, unless remedied by the Project, paralyze the
proposed development effort. Rotation of existing personnel and delayed
disbursement by GRZ of Project funds to implementing agencies could also
result in delays. However, despite the risks of limited implementation



- 48 -
capacity frequently experienced in Zambia, the proposed Project fully deserves
support. The Project represents a realistic approach to achieve modest
development targets as part of a long-term development program. It would
support a limited number of practical agricultural improvements, each with
high profitability for participating farmers, and with potential for repli-
cation elsewhere in Zambia. A number of specific measures, including the
strengthening of the existing extension service, the establishment of a
planning and monitoring unit as well as proposals to regularize the flow of
funds from the Ministry of Finance to implementing agencies, have been proposed
to boost the implementation capacity of the provincial administration. In
addition, the Project is designed to absorb the risks of poor implementation
capacity if deemed necessary. For example, if implementation of the Project
is delayed for one year, it is estimated that the rate of return for the crop
production component would fall to 12% and, for the Project as a whole, would
decline to 9% due to a delayed uptake of the technical packages by the target
group. From past experience with agricultural development projects in Zambia,
a further risk most likely to affect the Project's rate of return would be
lower crop yields arising from slow adoption of improved husbandry and lower
than expected use of fertilizer and seed. However, at present and projected
future prices, the technical packages available to farmers are sufficiently
attractive to reduce this risk.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) ZADB operating policies, procedures, interest rate and financial
plan would be drawn up and submitted to the Bank before March 31,
1982 in a comprehensive plan, satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.18);
(b) ZADB and ECU would progressively raise their interest rates so
that by March 31, 1984 these would at least cover their cost of
funds, operating costs and a reasonable provision for bad debts,
that GRZ would continue to pay an annual subsidy to meet the costs
of uneconomic offices maintained by ZADB under GRZ directives, and
that GRZ would take all measures necessary to revise the maximum
interest rate ZADB is allowed to charge in order that ECU and ZADB
could carry out this obligation (para 4,18);
(c) GRZ would appoint qualified local Zambians as counterparts to
all posts filled with internationally-recruited personnel for
research, extension and project administration (paras. 4.04,
4.07 and 4.24);
(d) the incremental operating costs of research, extension and Proj-
ect management would be progressively transferred from the GRZ
development budget to the recurrent budget during PY3-PY6 (para
4.27);



- 49 -
(e) GRZ non-incremental recurrent expenditures on research and exten-
sion services in the Eastern Province would be maintained at a
level not below the 1979 level, in real terms (para 4.27);
(f) the financing of Project costs would be as stated (para 4.29);
(g) the funds required for the research, extension, tsetse control
and Project coordination and evaluation would be deposited
quarterly in advance in a separate Project account controlled by
the PPS, Eastern Province, and that the funds required for
implementation of other components would be made available in a
timely manner to the agencies involved (para 4.29);
(h) GRZ would ensure that ECU, LINTCO, and NAMB would receive adequate
foreign exchange and local currency allocations to enable these
organizations to effectively discharge their input delivery and
marketing functions in the Eastern Province (para 4.30);
(i) the procurement procedures outlined would be followed (para 4.32);
(j) separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would
be maintained by the PPS, Eastern Province and by LINTCO, ZADB and
ECU, that these accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and that such audited accounts would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of each financial
year (para 4.35);
(k) the proposed annual Project work program and budget would be prepared
by the implementing agencies and be submitted to the PPS not later
than May 31 and the PPS would submit these to the SFC not later than
June 30 of each year, and that they would be sent to the Bank for
comment after they have been approved by the SEC (para 5.01);
(1) that reporting procedures be followed as outlined (para 5.02)
and that, within six months of the completion of disbursements,
GRZ would prepare and submit to the Bank a Project Completion
Report (para 5.14);
(m)  GRZ would appoint all internationally recruited staff not later
than December 31, 1980; that the Bank would be consulted, prior to
appointment, on the suitability in terms of qualifications and
experience of all internationally-recruited staff financed under
the Project and successor staff appointed to these positions;
that all internationally-recruited staff would be employed under
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank; and that the posts of Provincial Agricultural Officer,
Provincial Extension Training Officer, Provincial Tsetse Control
Officer and Provincial Tsetse Control Biologist would continue
to be filled throughout the Project by qualified and experienced
staff (para 5.13);



- 50 -
(n) a Supervisory and Evaluation Committee would be formed by January 31,
1982 (para 5.01), that the terms of reference for any proposed
evaluation study would be sent to the Bank for comment and that any
evaluation reports would be sent to the Bank for comment when they
become available (para 5.14);
(o) in order to maintain producer incentives, GRZ would continue to
review producer and fertilizer prices annually, would take account
in price determination of border prices and the costs of production
of small scale producers, and would discuss agricultural pricing
policy biannually with the Bank (para 6.16).
(p) GRZ would cause ECU to prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank by
January 31, 1982, incorporating ECU-s projected investment plan and
its financial position for the next five years beginning January
1982 (para 7.04);
(q) GRZ would pay ECU a service charge reflecting all direct and in-
direct trading costs and providing for a reasonable rate of return
on equity capital in advance and on the basis of an annual procure-
ment plan, prepared by ECU in consultation with the Planning Unit in
the PPS office, containing all items ECU intends to purchase or
distribute in the following year and be submitted to GRZ by October
31, each year (para 7.05);
9.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be:  (a) the execution of
subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank between GRZ and ECU and
Lintco respectively (para 4.29); (b) the appointment of a Senior Planning
Officer, Senior Finance Officer and Provincial Extension Management Spe-
cialist would have been appointed, after consultation with the Bank on
qualifications and experience (para 5.13); and (c) the establishment of and
initial deposit into the Project Advance Account (para 4.29).
9.03      It would be a condition of disbursement against the groundnut
decorticators that GRZ had drawn up proposals satisfactory to the Bank on
the type of decorticators to be purchased (para 4.19).
9.04      The proposed Project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$11 million to the Government of the Republic of Zambia.



ANNEX 1
-51-
ZAMB IA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Charts and Tables



ZAMBIA                                                         ANNEX 1
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   Chart C-1
Project Implementation Schedule
1981             1982              1983              1984              1985              1986
COMPONENT
COMPON ENT           1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2  3    4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2  3    4
EXTENSION SERVICE:
Vehicles and Equipment                       _         _    =   _   _       - _                             -   -                 -   -
Housing                                               -        =  =                  - =      -  - =            - =               -
Wells---                                                                    -        -----                      ----
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH:
Vehicles and Equipment
Staff House Upgrading    E
Mt. Makulu Irrigation
Staff Houses at Masumba
AGRIC. INPUTS AND STORAGE:
Cotton Insecticides and Fertilizers
ECU Rural Stores
Lintco Cotton Seed Stores
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT:
ZADB Technical Assistance                      -      =   =        = -       =       -   -   - =       -   =   =   =          =   -      -
ECU Technical Assistance                 _            -        _   _   _ -       _ -                                          _ -      _ _
Vehicles and Equipment
AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING:
Cotton Insecticides Plant and                                  _   _                 - _   _   _                                  -
Sprayers
Ginnery Modifications
Groundnuts Equipment
Vehicles and Equipment
TSETSE CONTROL:
Vehicles and Equipment
Civil Works
PROJECT ADMIN. AND EVALUATION:
Vehicles
Staff Housing
World Bank-21183



W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F- r --H                                                                                            -                              - 
X ~~~~~~..........................................................  a       .    ........
A    _____1   H
.... .. .. .. .... . . ... . .. . ... . . .. .. ... ... . . .. .. . . <
.. . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .  . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . ... . . .. . . . .. . . U -H.. . .. . . .
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~...................................................
I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.............  ......................  ...  ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.......
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --F--- -
isWL






ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Marketed National Agricultural Production 1969-1979
Crop Year 1/
Commodity           Unit         1969       1970       1971       1972       1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
Maize                  m tons    265,860   133,260   386,940   598,530   399,150  588,090   559,480   749,970   696,100   548,070   335,400
Tobacco:flue-cured    m tons        5,023      4,796      5,908      5,532      6,222    6,300       6,466      6,262      5,588      3,704     4,071
:Burley        m tons          255       388        384        471        430       501        501        212        312        264       n.a.
:Oriental      m tons           75          8         4        ---         ---      ---        ---      1,394      1,675        n.a.      n.a.
Sugar cane             m tons    256,700   321,600   330,300   397,400   487,700  570,200   768,200   779,600   691,400                 n.a.      n.a.
Groundnuts             m tons        8,428     3,675      6,919      6,508      3,217    3,626       6,499      9,467      7,462      2,214      3,360
Sunflower seed         m tons            4       ---         11        124        398    4,003       8,243    15,965    13,307        7,565    10,200
Soya beans             m tons          ---        ---       ---        ---        ---        37        367        604      1,274        212     1,187
Seed cotton            m tons       6,901      5,446    12,675       8,349      5,225    2,175       2,602      3,885      8,929      8,600    15,098
Cattle                   head      47,693    68,399    72,805    77,908    88,176   80,139    71,659    77,602    71,505                n.a.      n.a.
Milk                   m tons       15,481    14,903    16,463    17,001    17,102   13,187    13,011    12,147    11,696               n.a,      n.a.
n.a. - not available.
1/ The crop year runs from July through June; the corresponding marketing year
(when the above orices are act,,lRji  naid to farmer) runs from the following                                                                      >
July through June.                                                                                                                               a z
H 
a, 3
January 30, 198]



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Crop Producer Prices
(K)
Unit        Crop Year-  1974/75   1975/76  1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80  1980/81
Maize - Grade A                                   90 kg/bag                    5.00       6.30      6.30       6.80       9.00      11.70      13.50
Groundnuts - confectionary                        80 kg/bag                   19.00      25.00    25.00       28.60      32.00      35.00      32.00
- oil-expressing                      80 kg/bag                   17.00      25.00    25.00       28.60      32.00      35.00      32.00
Seed cotton - Grade A - Eastern Province             kg                        0.32       0.42      0.42       0.46       0.46       0.46       0.46
- elsewhere                  kg                        0.30       0.40     0.40       0.46        0.46       0.46      0.46
Sunflower seed                                    50 kg/bag                    9.40      10.00    10.00       12.50      13,70      16.40     13.70
Soya beans                                        90 kg/bag                   13.20      17.00    17.00       21.50      25.00      32.00      25.00
Wheat                                             90 kg/bag                   16.00      16.00    16.00       20.00      20.00      22.00      20.00
Paddy rice                                           kg                        0.15       0.18      0.18       0.18       0.20       0.22     16.00           1
Virginia tobacco-floor price                         kg                        0.90       1.04      1.04       1.21       1.32       1.32       n.a.         >
1/ The crop year runs from July through June; the corresponding marketing year (when the above prices are actually paid to
farmer) runs from the following July through June.
January 30, lQRl
"a



-55-
ANNEX 1
Table T-:
ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Eastern Province Farm Size Distribution 1/
No. of holdings                                   Cumulative
Size of holding    as % of total             No. of holdings         %        No.
(ha)
( 0.2                 3                     4,272             3        4,272
0.199 - 0.599              15                     21,360            18      25,632
0.6   - 0.999              23                     32,752            41      58,384
1.0   - 1.399              20                     28,480            61      86,864
1.4   - 1.799              14                     19,936            75     106,800
1.8   - 3.799              20                     28,480            95     135,280
3.8   - 5.899               3                      4,272            98     139,552
5.9   - 7.899               1                      1,424            99     140,976
7.9   -19.999               0.9                    1,282            99.9   142,258
>20.0                 0.1                      142           100     142,400
Total estimated           100%                   142,400
1/ Based on 1970/71 agricultural census data, adjusted to reflect population
increases.
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketed Volume of Maior Crops in Eastern Province 1/
Commodity
Quantities
in Tons         1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978    1979
Maize             720   8,550   6,750  12,420   8,010  10,530  2,250    1,350  13,600  30,060  45,630  55,080  69,210  82,080  84,780 69,446  35,000 (est)
Groundnuts    14,160   2,240   5,360  10,880  13,680   2,320  6,800    2,560   5,440   5,680   2,960   3,360   5,280   7,280   3,040  1,656   n.a.
Cotton              2      12       48      236     267      511  1,344       732      710      236     401      321      755   1,696   2,460  2,960    3,440
Sunflower         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -         8.5    48       250     390      449    700   n.a.
Burley tobacco   481      785      804      321     265      270    231      245      349      250     310       292     292      335       76      50   n.a.
Source: Planning Unit, MAWD.
1/ Marketed production data refer to quantities sold at ECU depots.
Accordingly, these figures do not account for (a) illegal sales,(b)
storage losses, and (c) with regard to maize and groundnuts,
subsistence Droduction.
January 30, 1981
41



ANNEX 1
Table T-5
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PORJECT
Phasing of Prbject Costs
Total              Foreign Exchange
PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      PY6       Base Cost          %        Amount
Agricultural Research       ---       776      527       410      410       410           2,533         49         1,242
Extension Improvement        99    1,251    1,         1,018    1,146    1,368            6,033         56         3,349
Agricultural Inputs
and Delivery           ---       278      168       208      383       486           1,523         59           896
Agricultural Credit         393       491      446       310      359       537           2,536         79         2,007
Agricultural Proces-
sing                       56       194    1,004       ---      ---       ---           1,254         42           533
Tsetse Control              ---       284       191       16      ---       ---             491         61           298
Project Administra-
tion and Evaluation        230       328      309       309      309       309           1,794     -  43            776          f
Total Base Costs            778    3,602    3,796    2,271    2,607    3,110             16,164         56         9,101
Contingencies: Physical      37       249      393       164      191       226           1,260         50           630
Price       120       725    1,253       917    1,216    1,653            5,884         50         2,942
Total Contingencies        157       974    1,646    10        1,407    1,879            7,144         50         3,572
Total Project Costs        935    4,576    5,442    3,352    4,014    4,989             23,308         56        12,673
January 30 , 1981






-57-
ZAMBIA                                     ANNEX 1
Table T-6
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs: Agricultural Research
(K' 000)
Total
No.of   Unit                                                                                          Total       Foreign
Units   Cost          PY1           PY2           PY3          PY4            PY5            PY6      Base        Exchange
(K'000)   No.   Coet   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No. Cost   Cost               %    Amount
A. CAPITAL COSTS:
Vehicles and
Spares             8    15.2                        8   152                                        ---    ---  ---    152       90      137
Mt.Makulu lab
Equipment          ---      ---    ---         ---    10    ---    ---             ---    ---    ---    ---  ---      10    100        10
Pasture: tools,
equipment and
spares                 ---    ---    ---    ---    29                34                         ---    ---  ---      63      90       57
Msekeru lab
equipment      ---      ---    ---    ---    ---        4    ---       44  ---    ---    ---    ---    ---  ---        4    100         4
MtMakulu
irrigation and
spares        ---      ---    ---    ---    ---   --        ---      44  ---    ---    ---    ---    ---  ---        44      75       33
Pasture: house
upgrading       2      5.8    ---    ---        2    12    --    ---  ---    ---    ---    ---    ---  ---           12      33        4
Upgrading of
Masumba            2     4.5    ---             ---    ---       2       9  ---    ---    ---    ---    ---  ---         9     33        3
Staff housing       4  3@53@30   --                  3   159       1      30  ---                          -            189      33       62
Total Capital Cost                 ---         ---   366    ---    117  ---    ---    ---                            483      64      310
B. OPERATING COSTS:
Local staff
salaries and
allowances    4    26.6    ---    ---          4   106       4    106    4    106        4    106    4   106    530         33      175
International
staff salaries
and allowances 4    51.5    ---                 4   206        4    206    4    206       4    206       4  206  1,030       62      639
Field trials         5      11    ---                5    55       5      55    5      55      5      55     5   55    275    ---        ---
Vehicle operation  8  8@1500km
@10.36   ---               8    43        8     43    8       43     8      43      8   43    215       55      118
Total Operation Costs                                ---   410    ---       10  ---    410   --        MQ   ---  _    2,050         45     932
Total Base Costs                                            776    ---    527  ---    410   ---    410   ---  410  2,533            49   1,242
Contingencies:Physical                       ---             53    ---      52  ---      33   ---       33   ---   33    204        49     100
Price                        ---    ---    99    ---    133  ---    151   ---    180   --   219    782              49      383
Total Contingencies                          ---    ---   152    ---    185  ---    184   ---    213   ---  252    986              49     483
TOTAL COMPONENT COSTS                        ---    ---   928    ---    712  ---    594   ---    623   ---  662  3,519              49   1,725
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   ANNEX I
Table T-7
Project Costs: Extension
(K' 000)
Total
Number       Unit              PYI             PY2              PY3                PY4               PY5              PY6         Total Base       Poreign Exchange
A.    Capital Costs                           of Units    Cost         Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Coat   Number   Cost    Number   Cost   Number  Coat                Coat        %        Amount
4-Wheel drive                                     (K'000)
4-Wheel drive                              46       15.2                    30       14      213         7    106        ---    ---       11       167       12    182         698       90          628
Bus and Truck                               4       28.4             2     ---        2       57         1      28       ---    ---    ---         ---        1      28        113       90          102
Motorcycles                               100        0.8           ---    ---        25       20        25    -20         25      20       25      20        25      20        100       90           90
Bicycles                                  340       0.08                   ---      170       14       ---     ---       ---    --- -- -      - - -         170      14         28       90           25
Spareparts for Vehicles & Cycles          ---        25%           __        8      ---       76       ---      39       ---       5     ---        47      ---      61        236       90          212
Katapola Training Aids                    ---    86.3                               ---   86    ---  ---    -                        ---      -      -       -    --_           86    90              77
New Staff Housing                          54         30           ---     ---        9      270        11    330         11    330       11       330       12    360       1,620       33          535
Upgrading of Staff Housing                200         1,1                            40       44        40      44        40      44      40        44       40      44        220       33           93
Stores at Agriculture Stations             27        4.5                              3       14         6      28         6      28       6        28        6      28        126       33           42
Water Wells                               100         1.1          ---    _          20       22        20      22        20      22      20        22       20      22        110       70           77
Total Capital Costs              ---        ---                   38                818              617                449               658              759      3,337       56        1,881
8.    Operating Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs 2                 ---        --_             2      14      213      127       246    188        271    200    206         125      244      211       865       55          476
Maintenance of llouses and  Wells 3/   ---            ---          ---              ---      ---       ---      17       ---      25    ---         34    ---        43        119       ---         ---
Salaries and Allowances 4/                ---        ---           ---      16      ---      169       ---    190        ---    211      ---       196    ---       222      1,004       55          552
Internationally-recruited Staff 5/    102 mn    5.3                  6      31       24      127        24    127         24    127        24      127              127        666       66          440
Training                                4,410 md    -__            ---      --   1,260 md   12    1,260 md  12           630 md   6       630 md    6       630 md   6          42      ---
Total Operating Costs                                            61               435               534               569               488              609      2,696        38      1,468
Total Base Costs                          ---        ---           ---      99      ---   1,251             1,151              1,018             1,146            1,368      6,033        56      3.349
Contingencies: Physical                   ---        ---           ---      10      ---      125       ---    115        ---    102                115      ---     157        604       56          388
Price                    ---         ---          ---      13      ---      277       ---    397        ---    430    ---         599      ---    818       2.534        56       l419
Total Contingencies            ---        ---           ---      23      ---     402        ___    512        ---     532    ---        714      ---    955       3,138       56        1,757
Total Component Costs         ---                      ---    122       ---                ---               ---                    1. 860      ---  2,323       9           56 
1/    Unit cost of a 25 bus seater is K25,000 and a 5-ton truck K31,400.
2/    Vehicle Operating expenses are  estimated as follows:
Truck,bus and 4-wheel drive @ 20000 km/yr @ KO.36 for fuel, lubrication and labor costs
Motorcycles @ 5000 km/yr @ KO.09
Bicycle-allowance K3.0 pm
Cost of maintenance for houses and wells are based on 3% aid 1% of costs respectively.
_/    Includes overseas travelling allowances and incremental staff salaries amd allowances; travelling allowances are calculated as follows:
PYI PAO, 2 DAO,@-30 day trip @ K112/day and return fare to India of K750 each
PY2 2DAO @ 30 day trip @ K112/day
PY3 2DA0 2DAO @ 30 day trip @ K112/day
PY4 2DAO @ 30 day trip @K112/day
5/     Calculated as follows: Extension Management Specialist 54 mm @ K5,300
Farm Management Specialist 48 mm C3 K5,300
January 30, 1981



ZAMIA
ANNEX I
Table T-8
EASTERN PROVINCE ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs: Agricultural Inputs Delivery
(K' 000)
Total
Number     Unit           Ff1               F'Y2             FY3              PY4               PY5               PY6          Total Base        Foreign Exchange
of Units   Cost      Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost    Number   Cost               Cost       _       Amount
A.   Capital Costs
ECU vural, stores                               63    K230/m2       ---      ---       38     278        12      91       7       52        6       45       ...      ---        466       33        154
LINTCO stores                                    36    K230/I2      ---      -                           12      33        8      22        8       22         8      22          99       33         33
Total Capital Costs                                                                  278               124               74                67                 22        565        33       t87
B.  Operating Costs
Incremental fertilizers                                K352/ton    ---       ---              ---        34      12     102       36     242       84       356      125         257       85        218
pesticides and sprayers                               ---                                 ---   26.7       ---    80.6      ---   190.8       -__      280        578.1      85        491
Incremental seeds                                                                                       ---    5.5    ____    17.4        ---    40.7        ---    59.2        122.8    ---
Total Operating Costs                                                ---               ---       ---  44.2               134             315.5             464.2         957.9      74        709
Total Base Costs                                                                     278             168.2              208             382.5             486.2      l .522.9     59        896
Contingencies: Physical                                            ---                         2       ---      15     ---       20      ---       37       ---      48          122      59         73
Price                                              ---                        59       ---     50      ---       85     _        200       ---      314          699      59       419
Total Contingencies                                                                            52         -      65              105               237               362          821      59        492
rotal  Component  Cost                                                                       330        ---  233.2'    ---      313      ---   619.5         ---    484.2    2,343.9      S9      1.388
January 30,1981



ZAMB IA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      ANNEX I
Table T-9
Project Costs: Agricultural Credit
(K '000)
Total
Number       Unit           PY1                 PY2                PY3                PY4                PY5               PY6           Total Base      F.regin Exchange
of Units    Cost    Number    Cost    Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost    Number   Cost                        Cost         /         Amount
(K'000)
A.    Capital Costs
ZADB Motor Vehicles and Spares  I/                    3        15.2           3      57                           ---               ---      ---       ---      ---      ---         ---       57.          96          51
ECU Motor Vehicles and Spares  2/                land 16    15.2                      _      l and 8    28       ---                                            ---     I and 8       28        56          90          50
Total Capital Costs                                                         57                   28                ---               ---               -_-                    28       113          90        101
B.    Operating Costs
ZADB Technical Asaistance(short-term)3/  12 os              6.89         12 mm      83        ---      --                 ---       ---      ---              ---                              83          67          56
ZADB Technical Assistance(long-term) 3/ .13.3 my            66.2          3.4 my 226          5.1 my  335       4.0 my  265    0.9 my    58           ---                           ---       884          67        592
ECU Technical Assistance(long-term) 3/            3 my      80.7          0.3 my  22            1 my   77          1 my   82    0.7 my    61         ---       ---      ---         ---       242          65        157
ZADB Motor Vehicle Operation                   3@20000 km/
yr K0.36       15000 km   5       60000 km   22   60000 km   22  60000              22      ---      ---       ---        ---         71         90          64
ECU Motor Vehicle Operation  /                   1 + 8
20000 km/yr   0.12          ---     ---    180000 km       8  180000 km       8 180000 km       8 180000           8  180000            8        40          90         37
ECU Incremental Staff 5/                          8           2.6                               8       21         8       21       8        21        8        21        8          21       105         ---
Total Operating Costs                                                        336                 463                396               170                 29                   29    1,425           64         906
Total Base Costs                           ---           ---         ---    393         ---      491      ---       396     ---       170      ---        29      ---          57    1,538           65      1,007
Contingencies :Physical                    ---           ---         ---       4        ---         4      ---        2      ---        2      ---         I      ---           3        16         100          16
: Price                    ---           ---        ---      69         ---      114      ---      138    ---          76      ---       14       ---         17        428          64        273
Total Contingencies                                                     73                  118               140               78                  15                   20       444          65         289
Line of Credit for Inputs                                                     --        ---       ---      ---       50               140      ---       330      ---        480      1,000         100      1,000
Total Component Costs                                                         466                609                586               388                374                  557     2,982          77      2,296
1/    Spares are estimated at 25% of purchase price of vehicle
2/    Include S four-wheel drive and 16 motorcycles @ K15,200 and K900 respectively.
3/    Short-term technical Assistance includes salaries and allewances,return fares and local travel, while long-term technical assistance includes in addition home leave travel and fares and
housing allowances.
4     Include running and maintenance e.penses of a 4 wheel drive as well as motor cycle allowance at K0.36 and K 0.12 respectively.
5/    Consist of 8 District Credit Supervisors whose incremental salaries have been estimated at 50% of their salaries.
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
ANNEX I
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            Table T-10
Proiect Costs: Agricultural Processing
(K '000)
Total
Number      Unit           PYl                  PY2                 PY3               PY4                   PYS               PY6           Total Base       Foreign ExchanRe
of Units   Cost    Number    Cost    Number    Cost    Number   Cost   Number   Cost    Number   Cost   Number   Cost                          Cost        X          Amouet
(K"'000)
A. Capital Costs
Packing Plant and Fans                         ---        ---        ---       ---        ---        50       ---       100      ---                                    ---       ---         150       44         66
Packing Equipment 1/                           ---         ---          ---    ---        ---       ---                  66               ---        ---      ---        ---   _--              66      80         53
Ginnery Modifications |/                       ---         -         --        ---        ---       --         --       838        ---                        --         ---      ---          838      35         293
Groundnut Decorticators 3/                     100   K750-1000    ---          ---        100        87        ---       87               ---        ---      ---        ---      ---           87      80          70
Vehicles and Spares _/                           3    K15.20         ---       ---          3         57       ---       57               ---        ---      ---                 ---           57      90          51
Total Capital Costs                                                  ---                  194              1,004                ---                ---                 ---        1,198      44         533
B.   Operating Costs
Consultant Fees  5/                                 ---        ---       ---         56                                    ---        ---      ---            ---                                   56     ---         ---
Total Operating Costs                                                 56                   _                                                                                         56
Total Base Costs                                                                    56                 194               1,004               ---                 ---                 ---        1,254      42         533
Contingencies   Physical _/                       ---         ---       ---        ---       ---        37        ---      191                                   ---        ---      ---          228      42          96
Price                           ---        ---        ---         7       ---         45       ---      358      ---       ---       ---       ---       ---       ---         410       22        172
Total Contingencies                                                    7                   82                549                                                                    638      42         268
Total Component Costs                                                               63                 276               1,553                                                                 1,892       42         801     7
1/    Includes 1 sealing unit, 3 packing units @ K3,110  and K 11,050  f.o.b. London respectively, equivalent to K6,000 c.i.f. Chipata
2/    Weighbridge at K75,000 concrete ramp K50,000 and 4 trolleys @ K500  and store 1700 m3 @ K130.
3/    50 small decorticators and 50 large decorticators @ K750 and Kl,000 respectively.
4/    Vehicles for insecticides packing plant.
E/ Engineering design fees at 67. of cost of insecticides p'ant and ginnery modifications.
P/ Physical contingencies for ginnery modifications and insecticide packing plant estimated at 20% to take into account increases that may result after compIction of detailed engineering designs.
January 30, 1981



ZAMIA                                                                          ANNEX I
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DFVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                       Table T-ll
Proiect Costs. Tsetse Control
(K' 000)
Total
Number          Unit               PYI                PY2               PY3              PY4                PY5              PY6            Total Base   Foreign Exchange
of Units        Cost        Number    Cost    Number   Cost   Number  Cost   Number   Cost   Number  Cost    Number  Cost                        Cost        %    Amount
A.   Capital Costs
Vehlcles,Equipment & Spareparts  /                    7          ---                     ---          7       83      ---    ---         ---    ---        ---   ---          ---   ---             83        90        75
Civil Works(temporary houses)                       4          K600           ---       ---          4        3                                                                                     3
Total Capital Costs                                                               ---                                  ---                ---
B.   Operating Costs
Vehicle Operations                            3@1500 km      K0.36/km          ---       ---    4,500         16   4,500       16    4,500         6       ---    ---         ---                3e.0         56        21
Sprayers                                            80          K90            ---       ---         80        7      ---    -9--        --0- ---          ---   --      -    -- -                 7,         9         6
Spraydi.t  Chemicals  2/                         2200 km    K105/km 2/         ---       ---     1,100 km2 115   1,100 km2115           ---    ---         ---   ---          ---      _        230.0         85      196
S    Salaries and Allowancesi/                           67           K70            ---                   67       60       67      60          7      10                                              130
Total Operating Costs                                                                                 198              191                 16                                              405         58      223
Total Base Costs                                                                                            284              191                 16                                              491         61      298
Contingencies: Physical                                                        ---                  --        22               13                  2                                                37        61       23
:Price                                                         ---       -          ---       60      ---      58       ---        6                                              124         61       76
To otal Contingencies                                                             --         -         82               71                  8              ---               ---           161         61       99
Total Component Costs                                                                                        366              262                 24              ---               ---           652         61      397
1/   Includes I four-wheel drive @ K15,200, 1 five-ton lorry @ K31,400, I tractor and trailer  (a K19,500, 4 bicycles (a1 K80 and spareparts at 257/ of purchase value.
2/   DDT requirements 50 kg/km2@K2.10/kg;actual area to be sprayed is 1,700 km 2 but overlapping of sprsying at end of PY2 will bring total to 2,200 km2.
3/   Includes 64 laborers @ K70/month,3 drivers @ K840/month:4 bicycles @ K2/month
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL I)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Costs:  Prolect Evaluation and Administration
K '000)
Total
Number       Unit           PYI               PY2               PY3               PY4                 PY5                 PY6            Total Base    Foreign Exchange
of Units    Cost    Number   Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cosmb            er ber   Cost gasber   Cost            Number   Cont           Cost          7      ______
A.   Capttal Costs
VIehicles and Spares                             3          15.2         2       38      1       19                ---               ---  ---      ---                         ---           57           90         51
Staff Housing                                    2            53         2      106   ---           ---        ---                        ---                    ---                        106           33         35
Total Capital Costs                                                      144              19                ---                ---                                       ----        163           53          86
B.   Operating Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries and Allowances   3              5.3           1       66      3    192           3      192       3       192        3      192         3           192        1,024           55        566
Local Staff Salaries and Allowances              9           ---       ---      ---      9      64          9       64       9        64         9      64         9            64          320           __         ---
Vehicle  Operation                           3@20000 km/
yr       KO.36        2        7      3      21          3       21        3        21        3       21        3             21         112           55          62
House Maintenance and Rents                                            ---      --   ---        is        ---       15      ---       15       ---       15      ---             15          75           -          ---
Evaluation I/                                                          ---       13             17                  17      ---       17       --        17      ---             17          98          --
Tiotal Operating Costs                                                   86            309                 309               309               309                     309        1,631           38        628        lw
Total Base Costs                                                                230           328                  309               309               309                     309        1,794           43        776
Contingencies:  Physical                                                        23              6                   5                 5                  5                       5          49           46         23
Price                                                         31            80                  119               169               223                     285          907          46         417
Total Contingencies                                                    54   _        86                  124               174               228                     290          956           46        440
Total Component Costs                                                           284           414                  433               483               537                     599        2,750           44      1,216
1/   Include Senior Finance Officer, Senior Planning Officer, Research Officer, Planning Officer, 2  Junior Planning Officers, 4 Accounts Assistants and 2 Accounts Clerks.
2/   Include Stationery, Research,allowances and Computer service charges.                                                                                                                                                       -
January 30,1981



-64-
ANNEX 1
Table T-13
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transfer of Operating Costs to Recurrent Budget
Unit    PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    PY
Research 1/
Base Operating Costs                                      K '000    -        410    410    410    410    410
Physical Contingencies                                    K '000    -         28      28      33     33      33
Price Contingencies                                       K '000    -         52    103    151    180    219
Sub-total                                          K '000    -        490    541    594    623    662
Extension 2/
Base Operating Cost                                       K '000      61    435    534    569    488    609
Physical Contingencies                                    K '000       5      43      53      57     49      61
Price Contingencies                                       K '000    -         96    184    240    255    364
Sub-total                                          K '000       66    574    771    866    792  1 024
Administration 3/
Base Operating Costs                                      K '000      73    292    292    292    292    292
Physical Contingencies                                    K '000       1       3       3       3      3       3
Price Contingencies                                       K '000    -         62      99    138    179    226
Sub-Total                                         K '000       74    357    394    433    474    521
Total                                        K '000    140  1,421  1,706  1,893  1,889  2,217
Financed from Development Budget:  %                           %        100    100      80      60     40      20
Amount                 K '000    140  1,421  1,365  1,136    756    443
Financed from Recurrent Budget  : %                           %         -O-    -O-      20      40      60     80
Amount                 K '000    -         -     341    757  1,133  1,774
1/   Costs from Table T-6
2/   Costs from Table T-7
3/   Costs from Table T-12
January 30, 1981



-65-
ANNEX]
Table T-14
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$'000)
Bank Group FY
and Quarter                         Quarterly Disbursement           Cumulative Disbursement
FY 82   Ql
Q2                                     ---                             ---
Q3    2/                                ---
Q4                                     250                             250
FY 83   Ql                                      100                            350
Q2                                     150                             500
Q3                                     200                             700
Q4                                     250                             950
FY 84   Ql                                      600                          1,550
Q2                                     600                           2,150
Q3                                     650                           2,800
Q4                                     650                           3,450
FY 85   Q1                                      650                          4,100
Q2                                     650                           4,750
Q3                                     650                           5,400
Q4                                     650                           6,050
FY 86   Ql                                      600                          6,650
Q2                                     600                           7,250
Q3                                     600                           7,850
Q4                                     600                           8,450
FY 87   Ql                                      600                          9,050
Q2                                     600                           9,650
Q3                                     600                          10,250
Q4                                     750                          11,000
1/   Assuming that the Loan would be signed in June 1981 and would  become
effective in September 1981
2/   Quarter of effectiveness



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Recommended Technical Packages and Estimated Yields
Improved                        Recommended    Recommended
Seed                 Seeding   Fertilizer       Pesticide          Estimated l/       Research
Crop                 Variety                 Rate    Application    Application            Yield             Yields
Hybrid maize              SR 52                20 kg/ha  100 bg basal   DDT powder          2,250 kg/ha          4,000-10,000 kg
100 kg top      (10 kg/ha)
Seed cotton              Albar                 20 kg/ha    ---            10 sprays of        700 kg/ha          1,700-2,500 (plateau)
endosulphan                           2,500-3,000 (valley)
and carbaryl)
Sunflower                Russian Giant         8 kg/ha      ---                               400 kg/ha          900-2,000 kg
Makulu Red groundnuts   Makulu Red             70 kg/ha    ---                 ---            960 kg/ha          1,800-2,400 kg
Certified
as
1/ For hand cultivators only.
January 30. 1981
IU,



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Timing of Labor Inputs for Major Crops 1/
Maize                    Maize                     Chalimbana                  Makulu Red
(Hybrid)                (Traditional)               Groundnuts                  Groundnuts                 Sunflower                Seed Cotton
Activity              Mandays       Timing        Mandays      Timing        Mandays      Timing        Mandays       Timing        Mandays      Timing        Mandays       Timing
(per ha)                   (per ha)                   (per ha)                   (per ha)                    (per ha)                   (per ha)
Land preparation             37        Nov-Dec          37         Nov-Dec          50         Nov-Dec         50         Nov-Dec         37          Nov-Jan         37         Nov
Planting                     10        Nov-Dec           6         Nov-Dec         16          Nov-Dec         lb         Nov-Dec          4         Dec-Jan          10         Nov-Dec
Singling/fertilizing          4        Jan.                        Jan.             --        --               --         --              --         --               10         Dec.           a
Spraying/dusting              4        Jan-Feb          --         Jan-Feb          --         --              --         --              --          --              16         Jan-Feb
Weeding                      20        Jan-Feb          20         Jan-Feb          26         Dec-Feb         26         Dec-Feb         20          Feb-Mar         20         Jan-Apr.
Harvesting                   25        May-June         10         May-June         60         Apr-June        70         Apr-June         8         Apr-May          25         May-Juine
Sorting/thrashing            25        July-Aug         10         July-Aug         50        May-Jtine        70         May-June        13         May-June         40         Julne-Juily
Marketing                    10        July-Aug          4         July-Aug          2         July-Aug         2         July-Aug          2         June-July        6         July-Aug
135                         87                        204                         2'4                         84                         164
I/ Hand cultivation using recommended technical packages.
January 30, 1981
H -~



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Assumed Labor Utilization in Farm Models 1/
Labor Inputs (Mandays) in:
Area (ha)       October   November   December   January   February            March      April       May        June      July      Aust    September            Total
Subsistence
Maize (traditional)                    0.66                         14          14            8          8            ---        ---         9          9        12          12         ---             86
Chalimbana groundnuts                  0.24                          8           8            3          3                       __          3          3         5          4                          37
Total                         0.91             ---         22          22          11          11                                 12          12        17         16          ---           123
Model I
Maize (traditional)                    0.66                         14          14            8          8                 ---               9          9        12          12         ---             86
Chalimbana groundnut                   0.24             ---          8           8            3          3            ...        ---         3          3         5           4         ---             37
Maize (Hybrid)                         0.70             ---         17          16           10         10                 ___               9          9        12          12         ---             95
Total                         1.60                         39          38          21          21                       ---       21          21        29         28          ---           218
Model II
Maize (traditional)                    0.66             ---         14          14            8          8                                   9          9        12          12         ---             86
Chalimbana groundnuts                  0.24                          8           8            3          3           ---         ---         3          3         5          4          ---             37
Seed cotton                            0.72             ---         20          21          10          10                         3        10         lO        15         16           __           118
Total                         1.62                         42          43          21          21             3           3       22         22         32         32          ---           241
Model III
Maize (traditional)                    0.66             ---         14          14            8          8            ---        ---         9          9        12          12                         86
Chalimbana groundnuts                  0.24                          8           8            3          3           ---         ---         3          3         5           4                         37
Sunflower seed                         1.44             ___         20          20           19         15            14          6         15         11         1 __                               121co
Total                         2.34             ---         42          42          30          26            14          6        27          23        18         16                        244
Model IV
Maize (traditional)                    0.66             ---         14          14            8          8            ---        ---         9          9        12          12         -               86
Chalimbana groundnuts                  0.24             ---          8           8            3          3           ---         ---         3          3         5           5    .                    37
Makulu Red groundnuts                  0.43             ---         16          16            4          4                       _10        25         25         1        -__                         101
Total                         1.33            ---          38          38          15          15            =          10        37          37       18          18                        224
Family labor availability 2/                               45         45          45           45         45             45         45        45         45        45          45          45
1/ See para. 6.07 for details of farm models.
2/ Monthly labor availability as follows:           Age        No. in Family    % of Adult Mandays    Pays worked per Month    Mandays Equivalent
20-64              1.5                 100                     24                           36
15-19             0.4                   80                     24                            8
10-14             0.6                   20                     10                           45
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Incremental Crop Production
Unit      PYI        PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5        PY6        PY7       PY8        pY9        FY10       FYI1I       P1'2      PFY3        FY14       mY15       FY16
Number of VEW's 1/                     No.      158        164          170        176        182        188        i88       188        188         188        188        188        188        188        188         188
VEW's operating T & V system 2/        No.      ---         41           86        132        182         188        188      188         188        188        188        188        188        188         188        188
Number of contact  farmers 2/          No.      ---      9.840       20,640    31,680    43,680    45,120    45,120   45,120    45,120    45.120    45,120    45,120    45,120    45,120    45,120    45,120
Number of innovators:  phase I         No.      ---        ---          590      1,180      1,770      2,360      2,950    3,540       4,130      4,720      5,310       5,900      5,900      5,900      5,900      5,900
phase 2       No.                 ---          ---        648      1,296      1,944      2,592    3,240       3,888      4,536      5,184       5,832     6,480       6,480      6,480      6,480
phase 3       No.      ---        ___ ---                 ---        662      1,324      1,986    2,648       3,310      3,972      4,634       5,296     5,958       6,620      6,620      6,620
phase 4       No.      ---                     ---        -- __      -          720      1,440    2,160       2,880      3,600      4,390       5,040     5,760       6,480      7,200      7,200
Total number of innovators _/          No.      ---                     590      1,828      3,728      6,348      8,968   11,588    14,208    16,828    19,448    22,068    24,098    25,480    26,200    26,200
Area under improved packages 5/
Hybrid maize                         ha.      ---        ---          165        512      1,004      1,777      2,511    3,245       3,978      4,712      5,445       6,179     6,747       7,134      7,336      7,336
Seed cotton                          ha.      ---                     131        404        805      1,404      1,984    2,563       3,143      3,722      4,200      4,881      5,330       5,636      5,795      5,795
Sunflower                            ha.      ---        ---          131        404        805      1,404      1,984    2,563       3,143      3.722      4,200      4,881      5,330       5,636      5,795      5,795
Makulu Red groundnuts                ha.      ---        ---           35        109        241        379        536       692        848      1,005      1,255       1,318      1;439      1,522      1,565      1,565
Total                                ---        ---          462      1,429       2.855     4,964      7,015    9,063    11,112       13,161    15,100       17,259    18,846      19,928    20,481      20,491
Incremental Production 6/
Hybrid maize                       m ton      ---        ---          ---        371      1,152      2,259      3,998    5,650       7,301      8,950     10,602    12,251      13,903    15,181       16,052     16,506
Seed cotton                        m ton      ---        ---          ---         92        283        564        983    1,389       1,794      2,200      2,605      2,940       3,417      3,731      3,945      4,057
Sunflower                          m ton      ---        ---          ---         52        161        322        560       792      1,023      1,254      1,485      1,680       1,948      2,127      2,249      2,312
Makulu Red groundnuts              m ton      --                      --          34        105        231'       364       515        664         814        965     1,205       1,265      1,381      1,461       1,502
l/ Village extension worker (VEW).
2/ Train and visit system would be introduced in four annual phases beginning in FY2.
3/ Each VEW would directly contact 120 farmers and through them indirectly contact a further 120.
A/ On the assumption that 60% of contact farmers would adopt innovations over a 10 year period.
5/ On the basis that 407 of innovators conform to Model I, 307. to Model II, 15% to Model III and 15% to Model IV (para 6.07).
6/ On basis of yields as in paras 6.01-6.06.
January 30, 1981



-70-
ANNEX 1
Table T-19
ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Tsetse Control: Financial and Economic Benefits
Technical Parameters
Number of cattle in affected area                                23,000
% infected with trypanosomiasis                                     10%   1/
Number infected with trypanosomiasis                              2,300
Annual mortality rate from trypanosomiasis in infected cattle    10%
Annual mortality from trypanosomiasis                               230
Average liveweight of infected animals                              200 kg
Total liveweight of animals dying from trypanosomiasis           46,000 kg
Annual reduction of weight gain in infected animals                  15 kg
Total annual reduction in weight gain                            31,050 kg
Percentage of lactating females in herd                             33%   2/
Number of lactating cows affected                                   760
Average milk yield per lactation                                    300 1 2/
Percentage reduction in milk yield from infected animals             5%
Total annual loss in milk production                             11,400 1
Annual Benefits
Annual Benefits                                 Financial         Economic
(K '000)         (K '000)
Value of animals saved from death                 50.6              75.0  3/
Value of weight gain saved                        34.2              50.6  3/
Value of milk saved                                2.9               2.9
Total                                        87.7             128.5
1/ Based on veterinary survey of area.
2/ Based on survey of dairy herds by M. Daplyn.
3/ On basis on financial and economic value of cattle in Table T-22.
4/ At local market price of KO.25 per lb.



-71-
ANNEX 1
Table 20
ZAMBNIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Financial and Economic Price of Seed Cotton
(Kwacha)
Unit        Financial        Economic
A. Border prices
Cotton lint 1/                   tonne          1,697          2,079
Crude oil 2/                     tonne          1,460          1,788
Cottonseed cake 3/               tonne             310           380
B. Value of 1 ton seed cotton
Cotton lint                      .36 t             611           748
Crude oil                        .12 t             168           206
Cottonseed cake                  .53 t             163           200
Total value                                  942          1,154
C. Processing costs
Ginnery                          tonne              68             69
Seed crushing                   tonne               46            47
Sub-total                  tonne             114            116
D. Marketing outside E. Province
Lint transport 4/                                   26            30
Seed transport T/                                  47             54
Lintco overheads                                   143           ---
Sub-total                                    216             84
E. Marketing in E. Province
Transport and handling                              42            47
Interest, etc.                                       9             9
Sub-total                                     51             56
Farm gate price                                         561            898
1/ Lusaka landed price for Mexican SMl-1/16" equivalent in 1980.
2/ Lusaka landed price for the crude cotton seed oil in 1980.
3/ Lusaka landed price for cotton cake.
4/ Transport charge: Chipata to Kafue and Lusaka based on KO.05 per ton-km
for cotton lint and KO.13 per ton-km for seed cotton.
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Financial and Economic Prices for Sunflower and Groundnuts
Sunflower                    Groundnut
Unit           Financial    Economic         Financial    Economic
Border prices
Crude oil 1/                                 tonne             1,050       1,286            1,230        1,507
Seed cake 2/                                 tonne               350         429              310          380
Value of 1 ton oilseed in Lusaka
Crude oil                                    .25t                263         322               41          663
Seed cake                                    .49t                172         211              174          213
Total                                                   435          533              715          876
Processing costs
Oil expression                               tonne                30          35               70           81
Net value of 1 ton oilseed in Lusaka                               414         498              645          795
Marketing costs
Transport handling, Chipata-Lusaka                                74          85               41           42
NAMB overheads                                                    10--                                      --
Transport handling depot costs-ECU                                38          42                4            4
ECU overheads                                                     11         ---               16          ---
Sub-total                                               133          127               61           46
Farm gate price                                                    272         371              584          749
(per bag)                                                           13.6        18.55            46.7         59.92
1/  Lusaka landed prices for the respective crude vegetable oils.
2/ Lusaka landed prices for respective oil cakes.
January 30, 1981
( X
I-a



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Financial and Economic Prices for Maize and Beef
Maize (per m ton)
(Impor, Parity)              (Parity)  arity)                 Beef (per kg liveweight)
Financial    Economic        Financial    Economic        Financial    Economic
Border price                          258.4 1/      316.5          198.0 1/      242.55            1.70          2.08
Marketing costs outside E Province
Transport                            10.7 3/       12.42          60.0 2/       69.45                        ___
Overheads 4/                         10.4         ---             10.0         ---               0.18        ---
Sub-total                    21.1          12.42          70.4          69.45           0.18        ---
Processing costs                      -       --                   ---           ---               0.39          0.45
Sub-total                  ---           ---             ---           ---              0.39          0.45
Marketing costs in E Province
Depot costs                           5.11          5.11           5.11          5.11         ---           ---
Shrinkage and loss                    1.47          1.80           1.47          1.80         ---            ---
Transport store-depot                 4.45          5.16           4.45          5.16         ---            ---
Overheads                             5.28        ---              5.28        ---            ---            ---
Interest, etc.                        2.81          2.81           2.81          2.81         ---            =
Sub-total                    19.12         14.88          19.12         14.88          =            ---
Farm gate price                       218.18        289.2          108.48        158.22            1.13          1.63
per bag                       19.63         26.03           9.76         14.24         226 5/        326 5/
1/ c.i.f. price, Eastern Zaire for Zambian white maize.
2/ Includes railage and road transport, charges: Chipata-Lubumbashi.
3/ Transport cost Chipata-Lusaka.
4/ NAMBoard overheads include ECU and primary societies commission, but does not cover handling costs of these
institution (i.e. depot costs, shrinkage, and transport) which are reimbursed directly by the Government.
5/ Price per head of 200 kg liveweight.
January 30, 1981                                                                                                            m
Iw3 ~



-74- 
ANNEX 1
Table T-23
ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Summary Hectare Budget
Maize
Price Assumption              I                          II
ImprovedV/                 Improved- /
Unit      Traditionall/   Hand       Traditional-V  Hand
Yield                    kg/ha        1,080        2,250        1,080         2,250
Returns                    K            140.40       292.50       162.00        337.50
Costs:
Seed                                    1.80        14.00         2.25         17.40
Fertilizer                            ---           45.74 3/    ---            57.89 3/
Insecticide                           ---            3.20 4/    ---             3.50 4/
Herbicide                             ---          ---           ---          ---
Bags                                    6.00        12.50         6.36         13.25
Transport                               7.00        15.00         7.00         15.00
Total Costs             K              14.80        90.44        15.61        107.04
Net Returns             K             125.60       202.06       146.39        230.46
Mandays               days/ha          87          135           87           135
Net Return/Manday    K/manday           1.44         1.50         1.68          1.71
1/ Local maize varieties.
2/ SR52 Hybrid Maize
3/ 100 kg 20-10-5 (basal) and 100 kg of ammonium nitrate (top dressing).
4/ 10 kg DDT (5% granular).
January 30, 1981



-75-                            ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA                                 Table T-24
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Summary Hectare Budgets
Cotton, Sunflower & Groundnuts
Price Assumption
Unit                I             II
A. Cotton
Yield (Seed cotton)                    kg/ha                700          700
Grade A                                                   616          616
Grade B                                                    70           70
Grade C                                                    14           14
Returns                                  K                  316.54       385.56
Costs:    Seed (20 kg)                   K                    4.00         5.80
Insecticide (10 sprays)                           93.00        63.00
Sprayer                                           18.50        18.50
Transport                                          5.00         5.00
Total costs              K                  120.50        92.30
Net Returns                           K                  196.04      293.26
Mandays                           manday/ha              137         137
Net return/manday                 K/manday                 1.43         2.14
B. Groundnuts (Makulu Red)
Yield                                  kg/ha
Grade A                                                   960         960
Grade B                                                   960         960
Returns                                  K                  336.00       489.60
Costs:    Seed (80 kg)                                       54.40        79.20
Bags                                               6.00         6.00
Transport                                          6.00         6.00
Total costs              K                   66.40        91.20
Net Returns                           K                  269.60      398.40
Mandays                           manday/ha              234          234
Net return/manday                 K/manday                 1.15         1.70
C. Sunflower
Yield                                  kg/ha                400          400
Returns                                  K                  108.00       108.00
Costs:    Seed (8 kg)                                         7.28         7.28
Bags                                               4.00         4.24
Transport                                          3.00         3.00
Total Costs              K                   14.28        14.52
Net Returns                           K                   93.72        93.48
Mandays                           manday/ha               84           84
Net return/manday                 K/manday                 1.12         1.11
January 30, 1981



ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Effects on Farm Incomes
Model I                               Model II                            Model III                             Model IV
Price            Price              Price             Price               Price            Price                Price            Price
Assumption I   Assumption II         Assumption I   Assumption II        Assumption I   Assumption II          Assumption I   Assumption II
Without troi1ec t
Area cultivated (ha) total
local maize                              0.66               0.66                0.66             0.66                0.66             0.66                0.66             0.66
Chalimbana groundnuts                    0.24               0.24                0.24             0.24                0.24             0.24                0.24             0.24
Production (kg): local maize                                   713                713                 713              713                 713              713                  713              713
: Chalimbana groundnuts                       259                259                 259              259                 259              259                 259              259
Value of production (K): local maize                            93                107                   93             107                   93              107                  93              107
Chalimbana groundnuts                45                 66                  45              66                   45               66                  45               66
Total                          138                173                 138              173                 138              T71                                  PT
Production costs (K): local maize                               10                 10                   10              10                   10              10                   10               10
Chalimbana groundnuts                    8                 11                   8               11                   8               11                   8               11
Total                           18                 21                  18               21                  18               7i
Net crop income (K)                                            120                152                 120              152                 120              152                 120              152
Net farm income /                                              142                179                 142              179                 142              179                 142              179
With Project
Incremental area (ha): total                                     0.70                0.70                0.72            0.72                  1.44            1.44                0.43             0.43
hybrid maize                            0.70               0.70
cotton                                                                         0.72             0.72
sunflower                             ---                ---                 ---                                     1.44            1.44              ---
Makulu Red groundnuts                          ---                           ---              ---                 ---              ---                   0.43             0.043    ..
Incremental production (kg): hybrid maize                    1,575              1,575                 ---              ---                 ---              ---                  ---              ---
cotton                         ---                ---                 504              504                  ---
sunflower                      ---                ---                 ---              ---                 576              576
Makulu Red groundnuts          ---                ---                 ---              ---                 ---              ---                 413              413
Value of incremental production (K): hybrid maize              205                236
:cotton                 ---                ---                 228              278                 ---              ---
sunflower             ...                                    ---               ---                156              156                 ---              ---
Makulu Red groundnuts         ---                                                      ---                 ---             ---                 144              211
Total            205                236                 228              278                  156             1                   T                 211
Incremental production costs (K)                                63                 75                  87               66                    21             21                   36               46
Net incremental income (K)                                     142                161                 141              212                  135             135                  108             165
Incremental gross benefit/cost ratio                         3.3:1               3.2:1               2.6:1            4.2:1                7.4:1           7.4:1               4.0-1            4.6:1
Incremental labor input (mandays)                               95                 95                 118              118                  121             121                 101              101
Return to incremental labor (K/manday)                           1.49               1.69                 1.19            1.80                  1.12           1.12                 1.07             1.63
Total net crop income (K)                                      262                313                 261              364                 255              272                 228              317
Total net farm income. /                                       284                340                 283              391                 277              299                 250              344
Percentage increase over 'Without Project' (%)                 100                 90                  99              118                  95               67                  76               92
1/ Total net farm income is estimated on the basis of data from the 1971                                                                                                                                 sH
Agricultural Census, to derive 85% from crops, with the remainder of
15% derived from livestock production.
J,nuary, 3Q, 1,951



ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow of the Project
(Million Kwacha)
-------------------------------    Year   -------   -- -- -- --  -- --- -- --  -- -- -- --
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9        10        11
Net Cash Inflows
IBRD  and IFAD Loan                0.5      1.4     5.0      5.2     4.8      5.1      -        -       -         -         _
Taxes                              0.0      0.1     0.2      0.2     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1       0.1       0.1
Total Net Cash Inflows          0.5      1.5     5.2      5.4     4.9     5.2      0.1      0.1     0.1       0.1       0.1
Net Cash Outflows
Project Costs -2/                  0.9      4.6     5,4      3.4     4,0     5.0      2.0      2.0     2.0       2.0       2.0
Debt Servicing--   -                             -        -       -            -      1.8      1.7    1I.6       1.5       2.1
Total Net Cash Outflows         0.9     4.6      5.4     3.4      4.0     5.0      3.8      3.7     3.6       3.5       4.1
Net Government Cash Flow           (0.4)   (3.1)   (0.2)    2.0      0.9     0.2      3.7      3.6      3.5      3.4       4.0
Cumulative Net Cash Flow           (0.4)   (3.5)   (3.7)   (1.7)   (0.8)   (1.0)    (4.7)   (8.3)  (11.8)   (15.2)   (19.2)
1/ Include a 40% subsidy on incremental fertilizer (para 7.04).
2/ Includes repayment of principal and interest at 9.6% p.a. for Bank loan
January 30, l9Rl
3 >4
ai-  T



ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Flows
(Million Kwacha)
-----------------------------------  Year  ----------------------------
1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8        9        10      11
Inflows:
IBRD and IFAD                   2/ 0.50    1.40    5.00    5.20    4.80    5.10          -        -        -         -
Export Saving on Agric.Produce-  -          -        -        .69    1.40    2.37    3.38    4.40    5.41         6.43    7.44
Savings on Fertilizer              -        -        -        .01      .02     .03      .05      .06      .08       .10      .11
Total Inflows                  0.50    1.40    5.00    5.90    6.22    7.47    3.43    4.46    5.49            6.53    7.55
Outflows:
F.E. Component of Project
Costs                           0.50    0.77    2.75    2.86    2.64    2.81    1.10    1.10    1.10            1.10    1.10
IBRD /IFAD loan Servicing          -        -            -        - _                  1.8      1.7      1.6       1.5     2.1
Total Outflows                 0.50    0.77    2.75    2.86    2.64    2.81    2.90    2.80    2.50            2.40    3.20
Net Foreign Exchange Flows         -      (0.63)   2.25    3.04    3.58    4.66    n.53    1.A6    2.7q            q.93    4.35
Cumulative F.E. Flow               -      (0.63)   2.88    5.92    9.50   14.16    14.69   16.35   19.14    23.07   27.42
1/ Include price contingencies.
2/ On the basis of incremental production as in Table T-18 and financial import/export                                            > 
parity prices of crops.
J r  3
January 30, 1981 



ZA14BIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Economic Analysis
(K '000)
PY I       FY 2       FY 3        n 4         nY s           6      Y 7        FY 8       FY 9        PY 10      PY 11       FY 12       PY 13      FY 14       PY 16       PY 16      PY 17-25
A, Crop Productin
Economic BEe fits
Incremental hybrid mai-e: exports                  ---         --                      58        182        438        634        902      1,156       1,418       1,672      1,923       2,202      2,405       2,543       2,615         2,615
imports              ---         ---         ---         91        326         774    1,134       1,460       2,071      2,539       3,007      3,448       3,944       4,306      4,554       4,683         4,683
Increenstel asod cotton                            ---         ---        ---          83        254        600        882      1,246       1,610      1,974       2,338      2,677       3,067      3,349       3,541       3,642         3,642
Incremental  unofl-wer need                        ---         ...        ---          19         60         141       207        292         378         464        549         630        718         787        832         855           855
Imcremental groundnuts                             ---                                 26         78         186       272         385        497         608        722         826        946  1. 033          1.092       1.122    1. 122
Totol in.resentat benefits
with maiee exports                                                   186        574      1,365      1,995      2,830       3,641      4,464       5,281      6,056       6,933       7,574      8,008       8,234         8,234
with maise imports                                                   219        718      1,701      2,495      3,385       4,556      5,585       6,616      7,581       8,675       9,475     10,018      10,302        10,302
Economic Costs
Incremental extension  costs                        77         981        902         821        912      1,074        578        578         578         578        778         578        578         578         578        778           618
Incremental inputs                                 ---         ---         39         119        281        411        610         751        923      1,091       1,250      1,419       1,563       1,653      1,748       1,748         1,748
Incremental labor                                  __          __          33         100        242         350       494        638         783         927      1,061      1,215       1.342       1.443      1.552       1.552         1,552
Total incremental costs                   77        981         977      1,040       1,435      1,835     1,682       1,967      2,284       2,596      3,089       3,212       3,483      3,674       3,878      4,078          3,918
B. Tsntse Control
Economic Bedefits
Value of dead cattle                               -----                  ---          35          75         75        75          75         75          75          75         75          75         75          75          75            75
Valne of loss in liveueight                        ---         ---        ---          25         51          51        51          51         51          51          51         51         51          51          51          51            51
Valne of los   of milk                             --_         __-        _             2          3           3         3           3           3          3           3          3           3          3           3           3             3
Total incremental benefits               ---        ---         ---         62         129        129        129        129         129         129        129        129         129         129        129         129           129
Economic Costs
Incromental costs                                  ---         322        216          18        ---         ---       ---         ---        ---         ---         --                     ---        ---         ---
C.  Rural Storage
Ecenonic Benefits
Value of fertilicer losses                         ---         ---           4         13         25          42        60          79          97        118         137        156         171        181         192         192           192
Value of seed losses                             __-                         I          1           2          3         4           4           5          6           7          8           9           9         10          10            10
Total incremental benefits               ---        ---           5          14         27         45         64         83         102         124        144         164        180         190        202         202           202
Economic Costs
Cost of  tore                                      ---         298        133          79          72         24          -        -           --- ---          ---              ---         ---        -88
74aintenancecosto                                              -                                       ---                4          6           7          8           8           8          8           8          888
Total incremental costs                  ---        298         133          79         72          24         4          6           7           8          8           8          8           8           8          8              8
D. Overall Project
Economic Benefits
Crop production (meio  6 cotton exporat)          ---         __-        ___         149        459      1,092    1,596        1.904       2,913      3,571       4,225      4,845       5,546       6,059      6,406       6,587         6,587
Teets  control                                     ---         ---        ---          65        136         136       136         136        136         136        136         136         136        136         136         136           136
Rural storage                                      ___         ___          5          14         27          45        64          83        102         124        144         164        180         190         202         202           202
Total incremental benefits               ---        ---           5        228         622      1,273    1,796        2,123      3,151       3,931      4,505       S,145      5,862       6,3d5       6,U4        &9 5          sy25
Econ.oic Costs
Crop production                                     77         981        977      1,040       1,435      1,835    1.682        1,967       2,284      2,596       3,089       3,212      3,483       3,674      3,878       4,078         3,878
Tsetsc control                                     ---         322        216          18        ---         ---       ---         ---        ---         ---        ---         ---        ---         ---         ---         ---           ---
Rural-  stage                                      ---         298        133          79         72          24         4           6           7          8           8          8           8          8           8           8             8
Project administration                             299        357         336         336        336         336        67         67          67          67        116          67         67          67          67        116             67
Agrinultoral processing ij61                                   212      1.097         --    --          -    -=                    _---      --  -     --___ z_-                             _--       -=-          _--         ---
Total increnental costa                  388      2,170       2,759      1,g5l       1,843      2,195     1,753       2,040      2,358       2,671       3,213      3,287       3,558      3,749       3,953       4,202         3,953
Internal Economic Rate of Return:
Maine & Cotton
E_nretted          Maiee Imported
Crop p-od-ction                   17                   33
Tsetse contrnl                    16                  16
Rura  storage                     15                  15
Overall project                   12                   22
January 30, 1981.






ANNEX 2
-80 -                                 Page 1
ZAMBIA
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A. Selected Reports on Agriculture in Zambia
Al. Zambian Agricultural Pricing and Marketing Policy
Doris Jansen Dodge, April 1979
A2. Dairying in Zambia: The Traditional Sector
J. Bessell and M. Daplyn, August 1977
A3. Farmer Operating Efficiency and Credit-Worthiness
J. Bessell and M. Iles, December 1976
A4. FAO/NORAD Seminar on Fertilizer Use in Zambia
FAO/NORAD 1976
A5. Soils of Zambia
H. Brammer, Department of Agriculture 1976
A6. The Economic Resources of Rural Households
A. Marter and D. Honeybone, December 1976
A7. An Evaluation Study of Farm Institutes and FTC's
A. Marter and D. Honeybone, December 1975
A8. Farm Management Handbook, Eastern Province
J. Heney, 1973
B. Selected Reports on the Project
Bi. Draft Project Proposals
GRZ, June 1979
B2. Review of Cotton Sector in Zambia
G. Mahclavi, January 1979
B3. The Textile Industry in Zambia plus Annex
B4. Bureau and Ferdinand, November 1978
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Detailed Project Cost Tables
C2. Agricultural Extension and Training in Eastern Province
C3.  Input Delivery in Eastern Province
C4. Agricultural Credit
C5. Eastern Province Cooperative Union



ANNEX 2
-81-                                Page 2
C6.   Pasture Legume Development
C7.   Agricultural Research
C8.   Animal Health Services
C9.   Tsetse Control in Eastern Province
C10. Technical Parameters and Hectare Budgets
Cll. Agricultural Marketing and Prices in Eastern Province



I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                          020 3z                                               30                           . ,5
Z A  M  B  I A                                                                                                    A        ;I§0tt
EASTERN PROVINCE                                                                    < ,
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                   Ch,W e,N
PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                                                      4 \  r
ip-b. ~         ~         i
M:i~n rocds                                                                        e. >4k             ,                                      ,23  E
Secondary roads3 iw.    :
Tracb                                                          R       V                      C  I  n   C   E
§oo-  Eleuon,on Contours fln etons                                                            ,>,ou b                           /                  J:f           :
?3 rou,niaOnwlcpial                                                                               DI              r i                 hm         ;;          : 
(©     Distniot hoadquanrens                                                                                                          oCh7amott0      ;==-;
0     Other townsj                                                                                                          f\|    :      -       ..
-    .      strict luoucoariec                                                                                        d0 N8    be    rnee0    00S9-  
MILES O             20              4'0            bO                                                      f        / /           \       , \   Q/         ' * : '- t; !; -a=
.lp~~~~ 
KIOMETS 0  20  40  60  00                          t   r       C
MILES 0              20X-t          40             60t                                                      ,  ' =       '  ':00       :  53°' .        '                  .  M
MP h?n'.
qE. 0  ;' $   s.--zt , 'td 4t  '>,,,,,d .      Roa 'rltElOS\tht,-L k                              r
[A
*35 ~ ~  ~         ~          ~         ~ ~ ~ ~                                 
C    E    N    T     ~~~~~~-A    L                                90                         CHIPACT a  K'zA,                       eyi
P    R 0    IO N   C   EN 0I                                                                                                                   ~tA,aa
14-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s0O~!s ~






Z  AM    .B  IA                                     32°                                                      ( 
EASTERN PROVINCE 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POPULATION  AND  RAINFALL                                               0Ci I/
POPULATION DENS TY'I
_   Persons per squcre nilorreser                           ¼X                                              /1.37         \I v  <C 
M-r time 40
'~. 20 -40  40- 
4  20                                           .s
2 - 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-110~ ~    ~    ~Il   L ess minor 2                                              '*                                   'phr 4k   \    t  :   ;
tDuSo    COonCens,sres/ms- Ae,gem 1969                                        h +  I-
MEAN ANNJAL RAIN7ALL                                           ¢                             4X|/1iv   0  r-\  \ 2 iE:;=
800-  Isohyems f, mslmeees                                                Di<   j Ia          v   \
_Mo   moonrDds d                                                      /         T-o [| "f/\ o           f '>     0C
-____ Seconnomymeo-P R .]                                                                    I
®)  Precise o cop tol                   °°                                        c ''' 'p09mbo t'  > ;| ;
(©)  D,sictAm Imeooqortems                   N  0 R T H  E R N
O   Dtr bbdowns                              P  R 0 V  I N  C E
..-..--Proeincioo oueoories ..........,  -\  2 t ;     
-   -   sternotmonal boonoorios                                       T    /J''    . .  4   .          i   .:
12 -Cr2sd 
K IL_2METERS  20    00    620 oOC    100,
MILES 0        20         40         0 
13 ¢ ${ 0 ~~~~~~-                                                         0     >b
\~ '(k MA    L AW
C E N T R AL
PcR                                                R VIN     E                                                   - '
4,: :  j-_                                                                                                                                '  ma5c 
H~~~~~ e
ZAISPE 
MOZAMBIQUE                         in             ~~~~~~~~~~~ANZANIA
0"          C~~~~mii'c0.~~~~c~~~~,                     R0BTSWANA~S00






Z A  M  B I A                                                                                                        zf                                 -: 0
EASTERN PROVINCE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                 ,             eiaaieT
AGRICULTURAL CAMPS-EXISTING AND PROPOSED                                                                                                                 '
Main roads                                                                  ''       ~      V        >  (             X l,                   /.2= in  
Secondary roads                                                                                                    Sr           K\\ >  X:0
Rivers  -   = 
D District IrAcdquas rs=
0     Other rorns                                                                                     P                        a'Chama  /
_ ~-- -    District bo-da-ies-
_  - - Prosici ondojal bojirdanias..                                                              E                      /tf                          ::Xi 
_._  lotarnaior ral boundaries                                               '--   1                   <,         $/ i 
AGRICJLTURAL CAMPS:
A Old camps                                               N          R    T   H   E    R  N
i N.a  camps (lisred belos)                               P   R   0   V  I  N   C  E                     C                  /     \=
Mkonda
2 Mray                                                                                   2 A
2°                               ~~~~~~~~~4 Kamparbosa/                                                                      p/hfno) \-2S                         -0  0;  
S Mo mba                                                                           _                                <l            sE         :;:a
6 Yokobec                                                                                                  7                                = 
7 Chase a      (       ^       8\         {-;           (l        0     =0    0   ;;  00hff
10) Kapangala                           _7&s                                                            "-                 L unda.c  z000
12 Nsksela                                                                            
13 Chimkom
17 Kansosomucla                                                                                                   >        <i        =                ;
19 Cnpembe 4S>>>L_-{  
20 NKlieokog                                                             ,               S ~                                0    l0 
23 KopilillM    A
13°   KILCMETERS 0  20       40        00        80      100Lund)z   I
MiLES 0              20             40              600%                         \    +                E      \     _~-~    UWZ  Ff0X                      X  
r~~c                                      ~~                                                                                                                  Area  '71tkrasoa,d. 
C E ~~~~171 K.-wo- lot                                                                                  u  n*  a  z  
5o    vise X  t'=                        0     '             X 0  7*         *_ _              _          @ >         ^    NAMletA         SO RHODPSIA(  j7.         
2N a                                                 r   racoo rOaa                                          BOTSWAAl            f                    a



