Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE CPY
Report No. P-2988-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25                 =     K 1.00
US$1.00                 =     K 0.80
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFC            -    Agricultural Finance Company
CARO           -    Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CFC            -    Cattle Finance Company
DBZ            -    Development Bank of Zambia
DOA            -    Department of Agriculture
ECU            -    Eastern Cooperative Union
GRZ            -    Government of the Republic of Zambia
IFAD           -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LINTCO         -    Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD           -    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
NAMB           -    National Agricultural Marketing Board
PAO            -    Provincial Agricultural Officer
PEMO           -    Provincial Extension Management Officer
PPS            -    Provincial Permanent Secretary
RDC            -    Rural Development Corporation
RDSB           -    Rural Development Studies Bureau
VEW            -    Village Extension Worker
ZADB           -    Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Republic of Zambia
AMOUNT:                  US$11 Million
TERMS:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6 percent per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project aims at increasing agricultural
production and raising the income levels and living
standards of small-scale farmers in the Eastern
Province through the provision of improved services
and includes the following components:-
(a) Research: provision of incremental staff,
equipment, housing, transport and operating
funds for Zambia's agricultural research program;
(b) Extension: reorganization of the Eastern Province
extension service into a "training and visit"
system; and provision of incremental staff and
operating costs, vehicles and equipment, staff
housing and water supply;
(c) Inputs: construction of storage facilities and
financing of incremental inputs for delivery to
smallholders;
(d) Credit: funding of incremental smallholder credit
in the province;
(e) Technical Assistance: for the Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank and the Eastern Co-operative
Union, as well as for project implementation;
(f) Processing: provision of mechanized groundnut
shellers, construction of an insecticide packing
plant, and storage and infrastructure at the
Chipata cotton ginnery; and
(g) Tsetse control: financing of a hand-spraying
program to control tsetse flies in Petauke
District in Eastern Province.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
PROJECT BENEFITS       At full development, the project would lead to
AND RISKS:           significant increases in the production of maize,
cotton, sunflower seed and groundnuts in the pro-
vince; milk and meat production also will be raised
through tsetse control. The major risk would be the
failure of the institutions concerned to implement the
Project in a timely and efficient manner; technical
assistance has been included to minimize this risk.
ESTIMATED COST:                        Local            Foreign            Total
---------------   - US $   000…
Research                              1,614            1,552             3,166
Extension                             3,355            4,186             7,541
Input Delivery                          784            1,120             1,904
Credit - Incremental Funds              -              1,250             1,250
- Technical Assistance          661            1,259             1,920
Processing                              902              666             1,568
Tsetse Control                          241              373               614
Administration                        1,273              970             2,243
Total Base Cost                       8,830           11,376            20,206
Physical Contingencies                  788              787             1,575
Price Contingencies                   3,678            3,677             7,355
Total Project Cost                   13,296           15,840            29,136
Total Project Cost
(net of duties and taxes)         12,284           15,840            28,124
FINANCING PLAN:                                                          %
(net of duties and taxes)          Total
IBRD                                  11.0                               39.0
IFAD                                  11.0                               39.0
Government of Zambia                   6.1                               22.0
Total                                 28.1                               100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                              US$'000
IBRD                                                  (IBRD Fiscal Years)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                                250    700   2,500   2,600  2,400  2,550
Cumulative                            250    950   3,450   6,050  8,450 11,000
RATE OF RETURN:        Its anticipated rate of return would be 17 percent on
crop production, 16 percent on tsetse control, 15 per-
cent on inputs storage, and 12 percent on overall project
investments.
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 2899-ZA dated April 15, 1981
MAPS:     No. IBRD 14672, 14673 and 14674



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE EASTERN PROVINCE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$11 million to help
finance the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project. The loan would
be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent
per annum. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of SDR 9 million (US$11 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Zambia for 20 years, including 8 years of grace, with interest at four percent per
annum    Of the Bank and IFAD funds, the Government would onlend about US$1.6
million to the Eastern Co-operative Union (ECU) and about US$3.5 million to
the Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO) for agricultural produce marketing and
processing facilities and inputs repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at not less than 9.6 percent per annum (the Government
wbul dassume the foreign exchange risk;) and about US$1.0 million (from IFAD
funds) to ECU for smallholder credit at three percent per annum interest:
loans to smallholders would bear interest at the rate of nine percent per
annum. Funds for technical assistance would be made available to ECU and the
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) on a grant basis, while the terms
and conditions of funds (about US$0.3 million) to ZADB for smallholder credit
would be determined when ZADB becomes operational.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for rapid
and sustained development. Economic and social goals since independence in
1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea, reduction of its
dependency on copper through agricultural and industrial development, more
equitable distribution of income and expanded educational and training oppor-
tunities. Progress toward achieving these goals has been below potential due
to structural imbalances in the economy, prolonged turmoil within the region
and, since 1975, a severe economic depression. Increased educational oppor-
tunities and construction of the TAZARA Railway through Tanzania to Dar-es-
Salaam are the main areas in which substantial progress has been made.
3.        The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on government
activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent of GDP. Govern-
ment expenditures have amounted to about 35 percent of GDP in recent years,
1/   A country economic memorandum on Zambia (3007-ZA) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. The most recent economic data are
summarized in Annex I.



- 2 -
and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on expatriate technical,
managerial and administrative skills. Despite high rates of savings and
investment, both of which have averaged about 30 percent of GDP since
independence, real growth has been disappointing, averaging only about 2 to
2.5 percent a year before the onset of the economic depression in 1975.
Diversification efforts have lagged; mining still provides over 90 percent of
foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross value added. 1/ Agriculture
accounts for about 15 percent of current GDP, the same as at independence.
The contribution of the manufacturing sector to current GDP rose rapidly from
7 to 17 percent through 1975, but has stagnated since then. Mean incomes in
rural areas are well below the 1979 average per capita income of US$510 and
are estimated to be less than one-third the average earnings of urban dwellers.
This imbalance has caused major rural-to-urban migration (about 40 percent of
the population is urban) and unemployment in urban areas.
4.        Until 1975, the services and manufacturing sectors grew at 8 to 10
percent per year. Manufacturing activity provided additional job opportuni-
ties for urban dwellers but became increasingly capital-intensive and depen-
dent on imported inputs. Much of the growth in services can be related to
the country's success in expanding education and to increased government
activity; the services sector now constitutes about 45 percent of current GDP.
Performance in other sectors has been generally poor and has been character-
ized by either very slow growth or stagnation. Copper output fluctuated
considerably during the 1970's but averaged about 675,000 metric tons between
1970 and 1978. Output fell sharply to about 580,000 tons in 1979, however,
and remained at approximately that level in 1980.
The Current Economic Crisis and the Government's Response
5.        Since 1975, Zambia has experienced an economic and financial
crisis initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices. Difficulties in
transporting goods to and from the sea and the drop in copper output have
exacerbated the situation. By the end of 1979, real per capita income was 55
percent below its level in 1974, and growth prospects had worsened considerably.
The depression began with a 40 percent fall in copper prices in 1975. As a
result, foreign exchange earnings fell 42 percent in 1975 and did not recover
to their 1974 levels until 1979, when the copper price rose in nominal terms
to its 1974 level after four years of low and stagnant prices. Government
revenues from mining fell from US$517 million (51 percent of total revenue) in
1974 to US$92 million in 1975 and were negligible thereafter until the first
quarter of 1980. On the other hand, government expenditures increased by
nearly 40 percent in 1975 based on the strong fiscal position of the previous
year. As a result, large government deficits, averaging 16 percent of GDP,
occurred each year between 1975 and 1978, and were financed mostly by borrowing
1/   In constant prices.  In current prices, however, the contribution of
mining has fallen to about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, due to
lower copper prices.



- 3 -
from the central bank. The rate of inflation rose rapidly from about 10
percent in 1975 to about 20 percent in 1977. The nominal value of imports
remained at approximately the 1974 level through 1978, but declined by about
55 percent in real terms, seriously affecting production. Even with the
curtailment of imports, large current account deficits occurred during
1975-1978. These were financed by short-term capital inflows and a build-up
of arrears on import payments and workers' remittances to US$635 million by
the end of 1978. Gross reserves fell to less than two months of imports and
net foreign assets, which are affected by borrowing from the IMF, declined to
about a negative US$400 million.
6.        The Government's reaction to the crisis, began with the signing
of an IMF Standby Agreement in 1978. The Kwacha was devalued by 10 percent
which, together with the opening of the southern railway route in October
1978, improved copper exports and profits. The Government controlled import
values and reduced the rate of credit expansion and deficit financing.
Throughout the period the Government has taken painful measures to restructure
its tax revenue to make up for the absence of income from mineral taxes;
between 1974 and 1979 it doubled the amount of non-mineral revenue inspite of
a stagnant economy. Wage increments were held below increases in the cost of
living, and arrears on import payments were reduced by about US$185 million
during 1979. The effectiveness of these measures, coupled with a reduction in
copper stocks and an increase in copper prices, stabilized the economic
situation. Inflation dropped to about 10 percent in 1979, and deficits
on the balance of payments and government accounts were brought under control.
7.        The external situation began to deteriorate again in 1980, however,
as a result of higher oil prices, increasing interest rates, a softening in
the market for cobalt sales and the necessity to import large quantities of
maize following two years of drought. The current account deficit increased
to 10 percent of GDP, its highest level since 1975, and external payment
arrears rose by about US$140 million. Also, government expenditures increased
by 25 percent, largely as a result of higher subsidy payments for maize and
fertilizer, which increased the Government's deficit and its borrowings
from the banking system.
8.        In the face of these developments the Government has committed
itself to a number of measures which should stimulate production and stabilize
the external and domestic financial situations. These measures will be
supported by a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) which is expected to be
approved by the IMF in early May. The Government has decided to introduce the
principle of economic pricing for products subject to price control and to
reduce consumer subsidies. As a first step, it increased the producer price
for maize by 15 percent for the 1980/81 crop season. Agricultural producer
prices are to be reviewed annually with a view towards setting them at world
price equivalents. The consumer price for maize meal was increased by 30
percent effective January, 1981. Prices for bread, sugar, meat, feedstock and
a number of other commodities were also increased. Consumer subsidies for
maize meal are to be phased out by the end of 1983, and the subsidy for
fertilizer will be reduced by one-half over the same period. These measures
should reduce the government deficit significantly, while providing more
resources for recurrent expenditures which are severely underfunded at present.



- 4 -
9.        The Government recently prepared a three-year investment program
which is in line with a realistic assessment of capital resources. About
one-third of planned investment is for agriculture which was seriously
neglected during the early and mid-1970's. In addition, measures will be
taken to improve the operating efficiency of public enterprises. A Prices and
Incomes Commission will be established to set economic prices for their
products. In regards to the balance of payments, the Government intends to
reduce external payment arrears by over US$125 million per annum over the next
three years. Also, the overall level of imports will be constrained to reduce
the current account deficit to a sustainable level. The EFF arrangement
should provide sufficient external resources for Government to accomplish the
above goals, provided it carefully controls its expenditures and monitors its
external position.
10.       The crisis has had a severe impact on growth.  Real GDP was stagnant
between 1974 and 1978. In 1979, real GDP declined by eight percent with the
largest declines in the mining sector (19 percent) and in agriculture (10
percent). Indications are that there has been little, if any, growth during
1980. During the past two years, drought affected agricultural production,
particularly maize, and the lack of imported inputs and spare parts and the
curtailment of government recurrent expenditures has led to an economy-wide
problem of underutilization of capacity. Lower investment and government
capital expenditure have delayed the completion of investment projects. The
manufacturing sector, which suffered severely in 1975 from shortages of
foreign exchange, has begun to recover but, as with the economy generally,
requires further increases in foreign exchange before significant growth is
possible. Successful implementation of the measures supported by the EFF
arrangement, however, should permit the economy to regain some growth momentum,
provided weather conditions remain favorable and further external shocks are
minimal.
Creditworthiness
11.       Prior to 1975 Zambia's external public debt was relatively small.
Disbursed debt in 1974 was US$762 million (US$162 per capita) and the debt
service ratio was less than 10 percent of exports. Since then, however,
outstanding debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$1,537 million by end
1979, and the debt service ratio to about 21 percent of exports. In 1980, the
debt service ratio rose further to an estimated 28 percent, due to an increase
in interest payments. External payment arrears on non-public debt were
reduced to US$450 million in 1979, but increased to US$590 million by the end
of 1980. In addition, the Government has purchased about US$330 million (net)
of foreign exchange from the IMF as of December 1980. With a 22 percent share
of estimated debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1979, the Bank was
the country's largest creditor, just ahead of private banks and the People's
Republic of China which held about 20 percent and 18 percent, respectively, of
outstanding debt.



12.       Although Zambia faces debt servicing difficulties for some time
to come, the Government is aware of the magnitude of the problem and of the
essential requirement for careful debt management. New external borrowings of
under 10 years maturity will be limited and monitored closely under the EFF
arrangement. A phased reduction in external payment arrears should also be
possible, as occurred during the term of the 1978 IMF Standby Agreement. Debt
service in 1981 will again be heavy; it is expected to claim about 28 percent
of export earnings. Thereafter, it is projected to fluctuate between 22 and
25 percent of export earnings through the mid-1980's, and to fall considerably
towards the end of the decade, as a result of projected real increases in the
price of copper. Given the Government's commitment to introduce economic
pricing, which should stimulate domestic production of many goods currently
imported, its willingness to deal with the problem of external debt management,
and the prospects of a low debt service ratio in the medium- to long-term,
Zambia continues to be creditworthy for further IBRD lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
13.        Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 26 loans and four credits to
Zambia totalling about US$591 million (net of cancellations). Fourteen loans
and two credits have financed power, transportation and communications pro-
jects. Four loans for education have helped expand Zambia's secondary and
higher education systems, teacher training, and commercial, agricultural and
technical education. Two program loans have helped Zambia maintain its
development program in periods of severe economic dislocation. In agriculture
and forestry, five loans and one credit have been for industrial forest
plantations, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming and coffee
production. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development program
and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural
and industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the Govern-
ment improve its planning and project preparation.
14.        IFC has invested about US$40 million (of which IFC now holds US$29
million) in seven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were in shoe
manufacturing, two in a package material plant, and one each for equity in the
Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production and textiles. Summary statements
of Bank Group loans, credits and investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects are in Annex II.
15.        The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, narrow the urban-rural income gap and develop
local managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending reflects the
Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors, particularly agricul-
ture-related activities, although continuing assistance to education, trans-
portation and industry also is contemplated. A project to expand agricultural
production through strengthening extension and marketing services and providing
farm inputs and credit in the Southern Province has been appraised, as have
projects for smallholder dairying, rural water supply and education.



- 6 -
16.        While continuing to emphasize diversification, the Bank also
expects to cooperate in future with Zambian authorities on measures to stem
the mining industry's deterioration. In this connection, a Bank mission
reviewed the sector in August 1980 and visited Zambia in April of this year to
discuss its findings, including possible Bank assistance.
17.        Implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has proceeded
reasonably well, although in recent years the sharp contraction of the
economy and the resulting shortages and budgetary cuts have had a deleterious
effect on the general progress of many projects. During the two-year period
covered by the 1978 IMF Standby Agreement, the budget was strictly controlled,
and the Government had difficulty meeting local cost requirements in some Bank
projects. In the telecommunications, transport, urban and education projects,
budget cuts have slowed procurement and delayed implementation.
PART III - AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Sector Performance
18.       The agriculture sector in Zambia is markedly dualistic.  On the one
hand, there is a relatively small modern sector of about 800 heavily-capital-
ized farmers (mainly of European origin) and a small number of state farms
and ranches. They farm State Land on a leasehold basis along the line-of-rail.
On the other hand, there are about 600,000 farm families on land held under
traditional tenure, the majority of whom cultivate less than 2 ha using hand-
or ox-cultivation and are oriented towards subsistence production. This
extreme dualism has been modified in recent years by two developments.
Firstly, a number of medium-scale Zambian farmers ('emergent farmers') -
also along the line-of-rail - have developed mechanized farms geared to
the commercial market. Secondly, an increasing number of small farmers,
particularly in the Southern, Central and Eastern Provinces, have begun to
produce marketable crop surpluses.
19.        Although agriculture provides a livelihood for about 60 percent
of Zambia's population, it accounted for only 16 percent of current GDP in
1978 and 14 percent in 1979 and 1980, both years of inadequate rainfall. In
real terms, agricultural output has grown at an average annual rate of only
three percent over the period 1970-78, somewhat less than the rate of popula-
tion growth. The development of agricultural exports has historically been
very limited. Tobacco and confectionary groundnuts are the only regular
exports, but they account for less than one percent of total exports. In some
years of surplus production, limited quantities of maize have been exported to
neighboring countries. Imports of agricultural commodities have shown an
increasing trend during the 1970's, reaching US$60 million (about nine percent
of total imports) in 1978. The major items imported have been cereals (mainly
wheat and rice) which accounted for about 22 percent of 1978 agricultural
imports, dairy products (nine percent) and vegetable oils and oilseed cakes
(32 percent).



- 7 -
20.       With few exceptions, Zambia's agricultural production experienced
serious fluctuations during the last decade or so (1969-79). After registering
an average low level of 260,000 metric tons during 1969-71 and reaching a
record 750,000 metric tons in 1976, the production of maize, the most important
crop, was only about 340,000 metric tons in 1979, which was iradequate to
satisfy domestic requirements and necessitated the importation of 300,000
metric tons. The dramatic decline in production resulted from the combined
effect of poor rains, late fertilizer imports and shortage of foreign exchange
for the importation of machinery and spares for large-scale commercial farmers.
Other major crops, meat and milk, except sugar which registered consistent
increases, faired no better. Tobacco, groundnuts and beef production declined,
while milk stagnated. After declining between 1971 and 1974, seed cotton
production dramatically increased in the 1978/79 - 1979/80 seasons as a result
of better producer prices. With the exception of sugar and tobacco, most
agricultural production is generated by small-scale farmers.
Agricultural Development Objectives and Strategy
21.       The Governmenthas, in its statements of development objectives,
consistently given priority to rural development in general and increased
agricultural production in particular, to supply local agro-based industries,
to export and raise rural incomes and living conditions. This priority is
reflected, particularly in recent years, in the increasing proportion of the
development budget allocated to agriculture. After declining from 20 percent
in 1970 to only 11 percent in 1974-76, the figure rose to about 20 percent in
1978 and 25 percent in 1979 and 1980. Unfortunately, much of the investment
was in parastatal enterprises which proved to be inefficient and in a number
of highly subsidized smallholder schemes (mainly resettlement) which benefitted
relatively few farmers but increased output little, if at all. It is now
generally recognized, however, that raising small farmer productivity is
essential. To accomplish this end, the Government is giving priority to
broader-based regional agricultural and rural development projects, of which
the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project is the first. Similar
projects are currently being prepared, for external financing in the Southern,
Western, North-Western and Northern Provinces.
22.       While capital expenditures budgeted for agriculture have risen in
recent years, allocations for recurrent expenditures to service research and
extension services have become increasingly inadequate. A study carried out
by Bank staff in 1980 showed that only three percent of the Government's
recurrent budget was devoted to these services, mostly for personal emolu-
ments. As a result, research and extension staff are rendered ineffective
because of lack of transport and other support services. The Government has
accepted the main findings of the study and has agreed to review Ministry of
Agricultural and Water Development's (MAWD) programs and strengthen it's
planning and policy analysis capabilities with a view to rationalizing and
increasing recurrent budgetary allocations for agricultural services.



-8-
Agricultural Services
23.       In Zambia the agricultural sector depends for service almost
entirely on the government and its parastatal organizations, of which the
main ones are MAWD and its departments and training institutes, the National
Agricultural Marketing Board (NAMB), Cold Storage Board, Dairy Produce Board
and Rural Development Corporation (RDC) and its subsidiaries. Provincial
Co-operative Unions (PCU) also are important. Private firms provide a few
services, mainly supplying machinery, equipment and agricultural chemicals
(except fertilizer).
Agricultural Research
24.       Most agricultural research in Zambia is carried out by the Research
Branch of MAWD's Department of Agriculture. The Branch has its Headquarters
and central research station near Lusaka, plus nine regional research stations,
a national irrigation center and an animal husbandry research station. In
addition, the University of Zambia and the National Council for Scientific
Research undertake limited research projects, and MAWD's Department of Vete-
rinary Services and Tsetse Control operates a veterinary research station. In
order to improve coordination, multi-disciplinary teams are now being formed
to address problems of particular farming systems (e.g. in high rainfall
areas), or groups of related crops (e.g. oilseeds). Increased emphasis is
also being put on the problems of smallholder farmers who were neglected in
the past when research focused more on mechanized farming. Overall, however,
research is constrained by the shortage of funds and by a lack of staff
continuity (over 70 percent of professional research officers are expatriates
serving on short-term contracts).
Agricultural Extension
25.       Agricultural extension services for livestock and crops, other than
tobacco (for which the Tobacco Board of Zambia is responsible), are provided
by the Extension Branch of MAWD's Department of Agriculture, and are organized
on provincial and district bases under the Provincial Agricultural Officer
(PAO). There are about 80 professional-officers (graduates), about 120
technical officers (generally diploma holders) and over 600 junior technical
officers and agricultural assistants (certificate-level staff). In addition,
there are about 800 agricultural and commodity demonstrators, who have received
only short-course training. In total, there are thus about 1,600 extension
staff, or one to every 350 farm families on average. Even after excluding the
partially trained demonstrators, this ratio (which rises to about 1:700),
remains reasonable. However, many of the professional officers are expat-
riates on short-term contracts and with little previous local experience.
Many technical officers fill specialist posts at the provincial level, leaving
lower caliber staff without adequate supervision. Field staff do not work to
specific programs. Recurrent funds for travelling on duty have been so
seriously curtailed that many officers are virtually desk-bound. Low pay and
difficult living conditions have lowered morale. This latter problem has now
been partly addressed since, from the beginning of 1980, the pay of commodity
demonstrators has been raised by over 50 percent, to K 70 per month. Never-
theless, the extension service has been and remains relatively ineffective,
despite the existence, for many parts of Zambia, of attractive, proven,
technical packages.



-9-
Credit
26.       Commercial and larger farmers in Zambia obtain seasonal credit from
the country's four commercial banks (each of which has 15-30 percent of its
loan portfolio in agriculture) and medium-and long-term loans from the Zambia
State Insurance Company and the Development Bank of Zambia. The Agricultural
Finance Company (AFC) is the only significant source of medium-term and seasonal
credit to smallholders. The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank, recently
established by the Government but not yet operational, is intended to replace
AFC and the Cattle Finance Company. The rate of interest charged by commercial
banks for agricultural loans was increased from 9.5 percent to 12.0 percent in
March 1981, bringing it in line with the rate charged to all other sectors and
with recent rates of inflation (10 percent in 1979 and 12 percent in 1980).
However, AFC charges a rate of nine percent per annum for seasonal credit to
small-scale farmers. An interest rate ceiling of 12 percent on all domestic
lending is currently imposed by the Bank of Zambia. Requests for credit sub-
stantially exceed AFC's available loan funds which are limited by the country's
financial squeeze (para. 5) and limitation on public sector credit, coupled
with AFC's deteriorating recovery rate.
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
27.       ZADB was established in March 1979 to make loans to medium and small-
scale farmers either directly or through Co-operative Unions. When it becomes
operational, ZADB will replace both the AFC and the Cattle Finance Company. In
contrast to AFC, whose sole source of equity and main source of loans is the
Government, ZADB will be able to raise capital from any source, accept local
deposits and have access to Bank of Zambia rediscounting facilities. Although
ZADB is not yet operational, a chairman and two directors have been appointed
to its board and a general manager is expected to be appointed in the near
future. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility is financing
consultants to help set up the new bank (para. 60). However, until ZADB
begins operations, AFC will continue to be the principal source of smallholder
credit. Until then, the Government will ensure that adequate funds will be made
available to AFC for smallholder credit in the Eastern Province.
Marketing
28.       In Zambia, parastatals, along with the cooperative unions in four
provinces, market most of the country's produce. The Tobacco Board handles
tobacco, the Cold Storage Board cattle and pigs (in competition with private
butchers), the Dairy Produce Board fresh milk from producers close to the
main markets and LINTCO handles cotton, using the cooperatives in the Eastern
and Southern Provinces as purchasing agents. In the Eastern, Southern,
Northern and Luapula Provinces, the cooperative unions are responsible for
marketing agricultural produce. They are the sole official purchasers of
maize and the buyers of last resort for all other major crops (para. 30). The
NAMB, is responsible for inter-provincial trade in these crops (para. 29).
Unfortunately, with the exception of LINTCO, Zambia's agricultural parastatals
in most years have operated at a loss -- due primarily to the Government-im-
posed prices for buying and selling and the shortage of qualified and experien-
ced personnel. Although the Government has announced its intention to make
the parastatals financially viable and has taken some steps in this direction,
the results to date fall short of the target.



- 10 -
The National Agricultural Marketing Board
29.       NAMB, created in 1969, is one of Zambia's largest parastatals.
Until the end of 1980, it enjoyed a monopoly in marketing and distributing
maize and was the residual buyer of a number of other controlled crops,
mainly groundnuts, sunflower seed and beans. Now, however, NAMB handles
only interprovincial trade in these commodities, in addition to being the
sole importer of fertilizers. (The provincial co-operative unions, instead
of NAMB, now distribute and sell fertilizer,implements and other agricul-
tural supplies to farmers). Due primarily to the buying and selling prices
set by the Government, NAMB over the years has regularly suffered substantial
losses which have been covered by transfers from the budget. These payments
totalled K44 million in 1978, K90 million in 1979 and are estimated to have
been K171 million in 1980 - due mainly to large maize imports. In 1981
transfers to NAMB are expected to decline to about K78 million with reduced
maize imports and the changes in prices described earlier (para. 8).
The Eastern Co-operative Union
30.       ECU in the Eastern Province markets maize, groundnuts (which it also
exports) and other crops, acts as LINTCO's agent in purchasing cotton, operates
two maize mills, extends group credit to farmers through its primary societies
and, since the beginning of this year, is responsible for distributing and
selling fertilizers, chemicals and implements to farmers. ECU works through a
system of about 500 primary society depots. Again, because of government
pricing, excerbated by the economy's problems in general and the Government's
in particular, ECU has also suffered financially. Government budgetary
transfers each year normally cover part of the losses ECU incurs in its
trading. However, with tightening fiscal constraints, these transfers declined
substantially - from K2.9 million in 1977 to Kl.4 million in 1979. They,
however, picked up to an estimated K2.8 million in 1980 and are estimated at
K7.4 million in 1981. The inadequacy of the budgetary transfers and delays by
the Government in making payments seriously strain ECU's liquidity although
its financial condition should improve over the coming few years mainly as a
result of increased price margins. Moreover, the proposed project makes
specific provision for ensuring ECU's financial viability (para. 59).
Lint Company of Zambia
31.       LINTCO, wholly owned by the Government, was created in 1978 to
develop cotton production, process seed cotton and market lint snd cotton
seed. LINTCO operates two cotton ginneries (in Lusaka and Chipata) and
recently assumed responsibility for procuring inputs (primarily insecticides
and sprayers) which are sold to farmers through the ECU. In the Eastern
Province, ECU also purchases cotton from growers on behalf of LINTCO, although
in the Central and Southern Provinces, where the European Development Fund is
financing a project, LINTCO may operate some markets as well as employ its own
extension staff. In its first year (which ended March 31, 1979) LINTCO
realized a profit, before taxesa, of K 378,000 on a turnover of K 4.4 million
and total assets employed of K 2.5 million.



- II -
Pricing
32.       The Government sets producer prices of all major commodities on a
uniform national basis. Despite increases they still averaged 16 percent
below border prices for the 1975/76-1978/79 crop seasons. The Government also
controls wholesale and retail prices of most agricultural commodities. These
have risen even more slowly than producer prices, resulting in increasingly
large losses to the marketing organizations and the Government. In September,
1980, the Government raised the producer price of maize from K 11.80 to
K 13.50 per 90 kg bag for the 1980/81 crop season and increased the wholesale
and retail prices of maize (ranging from 33 to 56 percent), in January, 1981.
The Government has also decided to eliminate permanently the negative dif-
ferential between the producer price of maize and the selling price to milling
companies. These decisions should result in a significant reduction in the
subsidy element in the consumer price of maize.
Bank Group Experience in the Agriculture Sector in Zambia
33.       The Bank Group has financed four agricultural projects in Zambia
-- a loan for livestock development, two loans for tobacco growing and a credit
for coffee production. The livestock loan was cancelled at the Government's
request because of pricing and management problems. The Commercial Tobacco
Farming Project (Loan 685-ZA) was completed in 1976 but did not succeed
in its goal of training and establishing Zambian commercial tobacco farmers.
A Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared in February 1979 and a Project
Performance Audit Report (PAR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 29, 1979. The PAR agreed with the main findings and conclusions of the
PCR which attributed the project's poor performance mainly to faulty project
design, poor management and inadequately trained and inexperienced Zambian
farmers. The family farming tobacco project, recently completed, also was not
successful in reaching its objective. The project encountered major managerial
problems and difficulties due to tobacco prices that were unattractive compared
to other crops, particularly maize. The coffee project is making reasonably
good progress although constrained by shortages of foreign exchange as well as
local currency. Loans to projects in other sectors also have benefitted
agriculture. For example, an education project is strengthening the training
of extension staff and farmers and two lines of credit to the Development Bank
of Zambia are financing medium- and long-term loans to commercial farmers and
a manufacturer of agricultural machinery. The Bank also has assisted the
Government in analyzing the rural and agricultural sector with an extensive
overall survey (1975), project identification (1978) and reviews of agricul-
tural pricing and marketing (1978), agricultural credit (1979) and budgeting
for recurrent expenditures (1980).
34.       An attempt has been made to incorporate in the proposed project
some of the lessons learned from the Bank's past involvement in Zambia's
agriculture. Accordingly, the project addresses the problems of severe
financial constraints (including local cost financing) and the poor delivery
of basic services (research, extension, inputs, etc.). It stresses the need
to strengthen (through technical assistance) the agencies (which, with the
exception of ZADB, are already fully-established) to be involved in project
implementation.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       An agricultural project in the Eastern Province was first conceived
by the Government in 1977 as a means of raising the smallholder production of
seed cotton, particularly in the Luangwa Valley but also on the Plateau.
However, during the preparation of the cotton project, it became clear that a
project focused solely on cotton development would not be economically attrac-
tive and would, as a single crop project, face unacceptably high risks of
failure if adverse cotton prices led farmers to switch to the production of
other crops. The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission which
visited Zambia in September 1978, at the request of the Government, to iden-
tify about five projects for possible Bank Group financing in the period
1980-1983. The project was prepared by MAWD staff, assisted by parastatals,
ECU and also the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA). Prepara-
tion was completed in June 1979, and the project was appraised in August/
September the same year. However, due to changes (introduced by the Govern-
ment in early 1980) in the organization of agricultural marketing, input
delivery and in public service salaries and wages, a reappraisal of the
project was undertaken in November 1980. In order to reduce project com-
plexity and minimize management problems, the project includes components
intended to address only the key constraints to agricultural development. A
component to strengthen animal health services in the Province, which would
otherwise have been included, is being financed by a bilateral donor. Loan
negotiations were held in Washington in April, 1981; the Zambian delegation
was led by Mr. A. Hamaamba, Permanent Secretary, MAWD. Annex III contains
supplementary project data.
Project Area
36.       The soils and climatic conditions in the Eastern Province of Zambia
are suitable for the production of a variety of crops. Proven technical
packages are available for the production of maize, cotton, groundnuts and
sunflower on family farms. Smallholders in the Province have shown respon-
siveness to price incentives and to the available technical innovations as
evidenced by the increase in marketed surpluses of hybrid maize, sunflower
and cotton in recent years. However, it is estimated that only about 30
percent of the farmers in the Province are using improved packages. Increas-
ing uptake of these packages is constrained by several factors. The problem
of the timely availability of inputs (particularly fertilizers and seeds)
due to limited input storage within the production areas, the shortage of
credit and difficult accessibility of the areas during the rains reduces the
ability of farmers to intensify production. The extension service is unable,
as a result of a lack of adequate training, supervision and mobility, to
encourage more farmers to adopt improved packages.
Project Description
37.       The project has the objective, over a period of five-and-a-half
years (consisting of a preparatory period during the last six months of 1981
and the full five government fiscal years thereafter), of increasing agricul-
tural production and raising the income levels and living standards of.small



- 13 -
farmers in the Eastern Province, through the provision of improved services.
The project would also finance some improvements in processing facilities and
the eradication of tsetse fly from a small area of the Province which is
surrounded by areas from which tsetse already has been eradicated. The
project would provide technical assistance to strengthen ECU and ZADB through
which credit would be channelled to smallholders. It would also strengthen
the planning and monitoring capability of the office of the Provincial Per-
manent Secretary (PPS) for the Eastern Province, as well as finance a program
of project evaluation. The project would focus on reinforcing and upgrading
existing organizations by providing their staff with the necessary transport,
equipment and improving their programming and supervision capabilities to
enable them to perform their tasks more effectively. Specifically, the
project would include the components described below.
38.       Research.  The project would provide for the expatriate recruitment
of two agronomists, a plant pathologist, a pasture agronomist and a livestock
specialist (supported by Zambian counterpart staff) for the Research Branch of
MAWD; Zambian staff would be recruited to fill the posts of laboratory techni-
cian at the regional research station at Msekera, and that of seed production
officer at the provincial substation at Masumba which would also be provided
with some irrigation equipment. In addition, the project would support the
sunflower breeding program at the Mount Makulu National Research Center,
where five houses would be built and eight vehicles and laboratory equipment
purchased.
39.       Extension Services.  The project would provide for the rehabilitation
of the agricultural extension services in the Eastern Province and improvement
of their effectiveness. Most of the extension workers are stationed at provin-
cial and district headquarters, and farmer contact is done largely by 148
inadequately trained demonstrators who lack defined work programs, supervision,
housing and transport.
40.       The project would finance about 75 new staff, led by an extension
management specialist and a farm management officer, both expatriates (sup-
ported by Zambian counterpart staff), who would establish district teams to
reorganize the service over four years into a "training and visit" system
under which village extension workers trained by specialist staff would meet
fortnightly with contact farmers.
41.       The system would be based on similar successful programs
in other countries, and the project would include nine man-months of study
tours to areas of India where such programs are in operation. It would also
include the renovation of 200 and construction of 54 staff houses and 100
wells, as well as the purchase of 46 four-wheel drive autos, 100 motorcycles,
340 bicycles, a bus, and two trucks.
42.       Input Delivery and Storage:  The project would provide for the
improvement and expansion of storage capacity for fertilizer, seeds and
insecticides. About 25 new fertilizer and seed stores would be constructed
by ECU at locations lacking such facilities at present. A further 20 new
stores would be constructed and 18 would be expanded at locations with
inadequate or dilapidated facilities. In cotton growing areas, LINTCO
would construct 36 units for the storage of cotton insecticides.



- 14 -
43.       Funds would be provided under the project to enable ECU to pur-
chase incremental requirements of fertilizer and seed. Similarly, provision
would be made under the project for the purchase by LINTCO of incremental
pesticide requirements.
44.       Credit:  The project would provide funds for incremental credit
requirements of smallholders in the Province. These funds would be made
available by the Government to individual members of primary co-operative
societies through ECU. A small proportion of farmer credit funds would be
channelled through the newly-established ZADB when it became operational
during the project period. Assistance would be provided under the project to
finance the recruitment of key personnel to establish operating policies and
procedures for the bank (para 49).
45.       Agricultural Processing: The project would include provision for
the purchase by ECU of simple groundnut shellers to be installed at about
50 markets. The introduction of mechanical groundnut shelling is expected
to improve substantially the processing of the crop and lead to increased
production. Research into the most appropriate type of sheller is currently
underway at the Msekera Research Station. The selection of the type of
sheller to be installed would be subject to the prior approval of the Bank.
46.       Provision would also be made under the project for the construc-
tion by LINTCO of a new insecticide packing plant at its ginnery at Chipata
to replace the present rented facility which has proved to be a health
hazard. Funds would also be made available to LINTCO to expand its present
inadequate lint storage capacity at the ginnery in order to cope with in-
creased cotton production and reduce losses.
47.       Tsetse Control:  Funds would be provided under the project to
the Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control of MAWD for tsetse
control in about 1,700 square kilometers of bush in the Petauke District which
would be sprayed with DDT. A dilute DDT solution would be used and possible
adverse environmental effects,w hich are expected to be minimal, would be
monitored by soil and water sampling. This project component would include
the purchase of vehicles, sprayers, chemicals and the provision of vehicle
operating costs.
48.       Technical Assistance:  Funds would be provided to ECU for the
international recruitment of a credit specialist to help the union overcome
its present institutional weaknesses - (through a more effective supervision
of field staff) and improve its credit management capability generally. Funds
would also be provided to top-up the salaries of the present part-time credit
officers who would become fully employed on credit work and would be provided
with motorcycles for better mobility and more effective contacts with the
primary societies.
49.       Technical assistance would also be provided to ZADB in the areas of
lending operations and procedures, program development, staff training and
organization and administration. For this purpose, the international recruit-
ment of experts has been completed with financing provided under the advance



- 15 -
from the Project Preparation Facility which was approved in April 1980. The
four experts, who are being provided by a consulting firm, have expertise in
agricultural development banking, program development, personnel development
and training and agricultural credit. In addition to the long-term technical
assistance, provision would be made for about 12 man-months of short-term
consulting services in accounting, reporting, monitoring, supervision, etc.
50.       Project Administration:  Provision would be made to strengthen
the project planning, implementing and monitoring and evaluation capabili-
ties of the office of the Provincial Permanent Secretary at Chipata. For this
purpose, technical assistance would be provided for the international recruit-
ment of a Senior Planning Officer and a Senior Finance Officer; housing and
transport would also be provided. In addition, two Zambian Planning Offi-
cers would be engaged as counterpart staff.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$29.1 million (or US$28.1
million net of duties and taxes) with a foreign exchange component of US$15.8
million, representing approximately 54 percent (56 percent of net costs). The
cost estimates include physical contingencies at the rate of 20 percent on the
insecticide packing plant and ginnery improvements, for which designs and
detailed costings are not yet available, and 10 percent on all other costs
except salaries. Price contingencies totalling 36 percent of baseline costs
are included -- 12 percent in 1980, 10.5 percent in 1981, nine percent in 1982,
eight percent in 1983 and seven percent thereafter -- on foreign costs of
vehicles, equipment and internationally-recruited staff and consultants, and
12 percent throughout the period on local costs.
52.       Project costs are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary.
They include incremental operating expenses totalling US$11.6 million for
research, extension services and project management in excess of actual
expenditure levels reached in 1979. Since current budgetary allocations for
these services fall far short of required levels, Bank and IFAD financing
would, in effect, be used to raise existing services to more acceptable
levels, in addition to providing for an expanded program. To ensure an adequate
level of funding after the completion of the project, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would, as a minimum, maintain in
real terms the 1979 levels of its budgetary allocations for extension and re-
search services for the lifetime of the project (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
5.04(i)). The Government would also be required to progressively transfer
from the capital budget to the recurrent budget recurrent funds for research,
extension, tsetse control and project administration under the project (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(ii)).
53.       The proposed Bank and IFAD loans of US$11.0 million each would
finance all the project's foreign exchange costs and 50 percent of local
costs, or about 78 percent of the total estimated costs net of duties and
taxes. This level of external financing is considered justified in the light
of Zambia's current and near-term critical economic and budgetary problems.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
54.       The project would be implemented entirely through existing organi-
zations, which would be strengthened under the Project as necessary. The
allocation of implementation responsibilities for the various components of
the project would be in accordance with existing institutional arrangements.
55.       Overall responsibility for project planning, budgeting, monitoring
and reporting would rest with the PPS for the Eastern Province whose office
would be strengthened as described above (para. 50). Annual plans and cost-
ings for implementation of project components on a quarterly basis would be
drawn up by the various implementing agencies and would be reviewed and
consolidated by the Senior Planning Officer into a proposed program for
the project. The Senior Finance Officer would at the same time draw up a
consolidated budget request which would be submitted by the PPS to the Super-
visory and Evaluation Committee (SEC). The committee, to be established by
January 31, 1982, under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MAWD,
would be responsible for coordinating and reviewing project implementation,
including approval of annual work plans and budgets (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06). The preparation of the consolidated plan and budget would be
completed by June 30 each year, and promptly after approval copies would be
sent through MAWD to the Bank for review (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.04(a)). Except for funds to be used by ECU, LINTCO and ZADB (which, fol-
lowing normal government procedures, would be accounted for under Loans and
Investments), project funds would be provided to the Permanent Secretary,
MAWD, who would sub-warrant them to the PPS, Eastern Province.
56.       The Senior Planning Officer would, as a matter of priority, institute
a system of semi-annual reporting by implementing agencies to the PPS and the
SEC. The system would be based on the one presently in use, but would more
explicitly relate progress to the agreed annual work program. These reports
would enable the PPS and the SEC to monitor progress and to identify bottle-
necks and constraints requiring remedial action. The reports would be
consolidated into an overall semi-annual progress report for the project as a
whole, which, together with data provided by the Senior Finance Officer on
project expenditures and disbursements, would be sent to the Bank through MAWD
not later than two months after the end of the reporting period (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04(b)).
57.       Project funds for incremental credit, the construction of stores and
procurement of incremental fertilizers, seed and pesticides would be onlent by
the Government to ECU: likewise, project funds for the construction of cotton
storage, the insecticide packing plant and improvement of the Chipata ginnery,
as well as for the procurement of incremental cotton seed and cotton insectides
and sprayers would be onlent to LINTCO. The execution of a Financing Agreement
between the Government and ECU and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and LINTCO would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Draft Loan
agreement, Sections 4.02(a) and (b) and 7.01(a) and (b)). Smallholder credit
funds channelled through ECU (funded entirely from the IFAD loan) would be
onlent to ECU at 3 percent per annum; interest on loans to farmers would be at



-17 -
the rate of 9 percent per annum (the rate charged by AFC, the largest source
of smallholder credit) which should provide ECU with an adequate spread.
Project funds onlent to ECU and LINTCO for purposes other than technical
assistance and smallholder credit would be repayable in 20 years, including
five years of grace, with interest of not less than 9.6 percent per annum.
Technical assistance funds for ECU and ZADB and the allocation for groundnut
shellers would be provided as a grant; while the terms and conditions of funds
to be made available to ZADB for credit to smallholders would be determined
when ZADB became operational. ECU and ZADB would revise their interest rate
structures so as to achieve by March 31, 1984, spreads that would ensure their
financial viability (Draft Project Agreement, 4.04(b) and 4.02(b)).
58.       The proceeds of the Bank and IFAD loans and the Government's contri-
bution for research, extension, tsetse control and project administration and
evaluation would be channelled through MAWD to the PPS for allocation to
government implementing agencies in the Province. The PAO (provincial head of
MAWD), assisted by the Extension Management Specialist to be recruited under
the project, would be responsible for the extension component. Research would
be supervised by the Chief Agricultural Research Officer in Lusaka, and tsetse
control by the Provincial Tsetse Control Officer assisted by a tsetse control
biologist. Evaluation would be carried out by a research officer from the
University of Zambia's Rural Development Studies Bureau.
59.       To ensure the timely provision of local counterpart project funds,
for research, extension, tsetse control and project administration and evalua-
tion, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
deposit the required amounts quarterly in advance in a special project account
controlled by the PPS (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). As ECU would be a
key project implementing agency in providing farm credit, inputs and the
marketing of smallholder produce, it is important to ensure its integrity,
financial viability and efficiency. As mentioned earlier, ECU relies on
government budgetary transfers to cover part of its trading losses (para. 30).
The Government has agreed to continue to make these transfers under the
project. The level of the transfers (or service charges), which will be paid
in advance, will be based on a formula agreed during negotiations which takes
into account ECU's trading costs and provides for a reasonable return on
capital employed (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.07). Although it was not
possible to carry out a financial analysis of ECU before the completion of the
transfer of functions from NAMB, it is considered that with the technical
assistance proposed under the project, ECU will be capable of implementing
effectively the proposed small farmer credit scheme. ECU would prepare by
January 31, 1982, a five-year financial investment plan (Draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.04(a)).
60.       In order to minimize delay in project implementation, a US$975,000
advance from the Project Preparation Facility was approved in April, 1980 to
finance project start-up activities. The advance is being used to finance the
recruitment of key project staff for the office of the PPS, Eastern Province,
and the provision of the necessary housing and transport; the procurement of
vehicles for the strengthening of the Province's extension services; the



- 18 -
design and preparation of tender documents for the construction of the LINTCO
insecticide packing plant; and the recruitment of key staff for ZADB. So far,
US$205,000 havebeen disbursed under the advance and US$77,000 hawebeen committed.
Project Staffing
61.       The project would, as far as possible, utilize existing staff who
are at present underemployed. By assigning them a more meaningful role, with
supporting investments and resources, they would be made much more productive.
Existing staff would be supplemented by the recruitment of a total 15 new staff --
five for the research component, two for the extension component, five for the
credit component and three for project planning, coordination and evaluation --
who would be financed under the project for a total of 61 man-years at an average
cost of US$79,000 equivalent per man-year. In addition, the project provides
financing for about 12 man-months of short-term consultancy at an average of
US$8,000 equivalent per man-year. A total of about 90 incremental local
staff would also be employed under the project. The appointment of the Senior
Planning Officer, the Senior Finance Officer and the Provincial Extension
Management Specialist would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(d)). The posts of Provincial Agricultural Officer,
Extension Training Officer, Tsetse Control Officer and Tsetse Control Biologist
to be filled by December 31, 1981, would continue to be filled by qualified and
experienced staff throughout the project period; and qualified Zambian counter-
part staff would be appointed to all public service posts filled by expatriates
under the project (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Project Evaluation
62.       Since the project would be the first of its type in Zambia, it
would be important to monitor and evaluate its impact closely so that the
lessons of implementation could be incorporated quickly into the proposed proj-
ect and also in similar projects planned for other parts of the country. The
evaluation, to be carried out by the Research Officer (para.58), would consist
of baseline studies, ongoing evaluation of project implementation and a post-
project evaluation. The baseline studies, which would provide a point of refer-
ence for evaluating project impact, would focus on three main issues -- the
numbers and characteristics of farmers already using improved techniques, the
yields and incomes obtained from the various crops, under both traditional and
improved production methods, and the cropping patterns of smallholders in the
Eastern Province. The annual evaluation would focus on the effects of project
interventions (particularly the reorganization of the extension service) and
would bring to the attention of the regional authorities important trends and
problems. The evaluation exercise would also include ad hoc studies of topics
of importance either for this project or in the preparation of future phases.
Possible subjects for examination would be the nutritional status of the
population and the impact of extension services on female-headed households.
The post-project evaluation would analyze final project impact. The Research
Officer would report to the Supervisory and Evaluation Committee, which would
review and approve the Research Officer's work plan and also review and take
action, as necessary, on his findings/recommendations. The terms of reference
of any evaluation study would be furnished to the Bank for comment. Within



- 19 -
six months of the completion of disbursements, the Government would prepare,
and submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report which would take into
account the findings of the evaluation exercise and analyze the project's
achievements measured against its objectives.
Procurement, Disbursements, Accounts and Audit
63.       Contracts of US$100,000 or more for the purchase of vehicles,
machinery and equipment (totalling US$2.5 million) would be awarded in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines on international competitive bidding. Vehicles,
machinery and equipment of less than US$100,000 (up to a total of US$480,000)
would be purchased under normal local procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Domestic manufacturers would be granted a preferential margin in bid
evaluation. Civil works contracts (US$2.6 million) would be too small and
scattered to attract international interest, and procurement would be by
contracts awarded after local competitive bidding in which foreign firms would
be entitled to compete. The construction of shallow wells and rehabilitation
of buildings, whe::e this would not be suitable for contractors, would be
carried out by force account. Incremental requirements of fertilizer and
pesticide would be bulked with overall national requirements and procured as
at present, under normal government procedures acceptable to the Bank which
include broad international tendering.
64.       Bank and IFAD funds would be disbursed as follows:  - 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 80 percent of the local expenditures for vehicles,
spares and equipment and groundnut shellers; 95 percent of the total expendi-
ture for the construction of staff housing, wells, irrigation systems, stores,
the insecticide packing plant and ginnery improvements; 100 percent of total
expenditures for technical assistance, consultancy services, evaluation and
study tours; 100 percent of incremental credit disbursements, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for sprayers and
chemicals for tsetse control; on a declining scale, an average of 70 percent of
the salaries and wages of incremental local staff; and US$975,000 of the loan
would refund an advance from the PPF (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Category 6).
65.       Separate accounts would be kept by the respective implementing
agencies (the PPS, LINTCO, ZADB and ECU) and would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank within six months
of the end of each financial year (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Audited accounts for ECU and LINTCO are normally produced within six months
of the end of the financial year. The Auditor-General audits the accounts of
all government ministries and departments and an audit report is submitted to
Parliament within one year of the end of each financial year.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
66.       The project would not directly increase government revenues, but it
is expected that there would be a marked increase in expenditure by benefici-
aries on consumer goods, leading to a rise in indirect revenues. Sales of seed
and pesticides would be at prices fully covering costs. While the price of fer-
tilizer is highly subsidized at present, the Government has agreed to carry out
annual reviews (Draft Loan Agreement, Seciton 5.08), in addition to measures
agreed with the IMF (para. 8).  Extension and research services would be provided
free of cost to smallholders. The project would represent a very modest



- 20 -
additional financial burden to the Government (equal to only two percent of
the 1980 MAWD capital budget). The incremental fiscal burden after the
project period would be about US$1.1 million annually, about five percent of
the 1980 MAWD recurrent budget and about US$6.0 per rural family in the
Eastern Province.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       At full development, the project is expected to make it possible
for 26,000 farm families, a quarter of traditional smallholder households in
the Eastern Province to adopt improved cultivation practices for maize,
cotton, sunflower and groundnuts, thereby increasing their incomes by up to
118 percent in real terms. Incremental annual production should then total
16,500 tons of maize, 4,000 tons of cotton, 2,300 tons of sunflower, and
1,500 tons of groundnuts. The project-s tsetse control program is expected to
prevent 230 head of cattle from dying each year, increasing meat production by
35 tons and milk by 41,000 litres. Farmers outside the target group would
also benefit from improved input delivery, extension, research, and credit
delivery. At full development, the project is expected to generate foreign
exchange savings of about US$6.9 million annually.
68.       The project is also expected to improve the institutions responsible
for credit, research and extension services that could (particularly in the
case of ECU and ZADB) have salutary national implications.
69.       The economic analysis of overall project investments shows an
internal economic rate of return of 12 percent, which could reach 22 percent
if Zambia continued to import maize. This rate ranges from 17 percent on
crop production, 16 percent on tsetse control to 15 percent on storage.
The research and credit components were excluded from this analysis as
there are no available indicators of the benefits flowing from them.
70.       The project's success would depend largely on the ability of the
government departments and parastatal agencies involved to implement effec-
tively the components for which they would be responsible. Implementation
performance would depend, in turn, on the timely provision of funds by the
Government to the implementing agencies. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks by providing technical assistance and making arrangements
that should ensure the timely availability of funds to the implementing
agencies. In addition, the agencies, with the exception of ZADB, are all well
established.
71.       Another possible risk is that, as experienced in some previous
projects in Zambia, crop yields would grow increase more slowly than expected
because of delays in the adoption of improved practices by farmers. At
present and expected prices, however, the technical packages available
to farmers are attractive enough to make this risk minimal. Producer prices,
a major component in the incentives perceived by smallholders, would, addi-
tionally, be reviewed annually with the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
5.05).



- 21 -
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank, ECU, LINTCO and ZADB and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III of this report.
Conditions of effectiveness would include the appointment of the Senior
Planning Officer, the Senior Finance Officer and the Extension Management
Specialist; the execution of a Financing Agreement between the Government and
ECU and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and LINTCO; the
execution and fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD Loan Agreement (except the effectiveness of the Bank Loan Agreement) and
the appointment by IFAD of the Bank as Cooperating Institution to administer the
IFAD Loan; and the establishment of an Advance Account controlled by the PPS,
Eastern Province, and the deposit of the initial amount sufficient to cover
expenditures on research, extension, tsetse control and project planning,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 4, 1981



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page I
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.   .)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            752.6
AGRICULTURAL     350. 1                               MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAFARA  LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 210.0       340.0    510.0                 868.0                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..       495.0    474.0                 699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      3.1         4.2       5.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.1        30.0      36.4                28.9                    63.4
POPULATICN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      10.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK4.                      4.0          6.0       7.0                61.7                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      9.0        12.0      15.0               126.0                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.0        46.2      46.9                 45.5                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.3      50.5                 51.6                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.5         2.5       2.6                  2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.8       3.0                 2.7                     2.7
URBAN                              5.5         5.4       5.6                 4.9                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0         50.0      49.0                46. P                   34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0         20.0      17.0                16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.3      3.4                  3.2                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         99.0        95.0    109.0                  94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  79.0        84.0      87.0                 92. 7                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         54.0        56.0      56.0                 53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0        16.0     14.0                 15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     36.0       29.0      23.0                 21.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        45.0      48.0                 50. 1                   63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THDUSAND)                            ..       144.0        ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        37.0      42.0                 31.0                    65.9
URBAN                              ..         70.0     86.0                 66.8                    80.4
RURAL                              ..        22.0      16.0                   ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        16.0      42.0                   ..                    62.3
URBAN                              .,         12.0      87.0                  *-                     79.4
RURAL                              ..         18.0     16.0                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11993.0    13136.0  10191.0               14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9915.O0c    2842.0   1931.0               3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           343.Oc     305.0    264.0                1141.5                   480.3
URBAN                           181. .L.
RURAL                           468.Oc         ..
ADMISSIONS PER hOSPITAL BED          ..          ..     300.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          4.4
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       4.6
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          2.6
URBAN                              ..          2.6
RURAL                              ..         2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                             27.5         ..
RURAL.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Plane i
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  rGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
HOST RECENT          IIIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                42. 0       87. 0      95.0                 61. 7                    99.7
MALE                 51.0        97.0      104.0                 69.2                    101.0
FEIALE               34.0        77.0       87.0                 51.4                    99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 2.0        12.0       16.0                 20.6                     34.4
MALE                  3.0        16.0       21.0                 29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                1.0         8.0       11.0                 14.7                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 28.0          3.0        4.0                  7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           50.0        47.0       48.0                 36.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         14.0        21.0       21.0                 24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28. 5/c     47.3       39.0                   ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        14.0       19.0                 38.8                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        18.0       21.0                 83.5                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         4.0        5.0                   ..                     84. 2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.0        13.0       22.0                 24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ARNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1268.0       1615.0    1952.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.7        33.0       32.5                 38.1                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.7         72. 8     68.0                 54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 7.0         8.8       11.0                 17.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATIOII RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.4         38.9      37.6                 38.8                     31.5
MALE                                54.1         52.7      51.3                 48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                              26.9        25.3       24.2                 29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPE14DENCY RATIO             1. 2         1. 3      1.3                  1.3                      1. 4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7          ..       23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2          ..       63.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4          ..        3. 8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          ..       10. 1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      247.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      168. 0                  *                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US) PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      126.0                                        474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       85. 0                  ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          .        25.0                   ..                      ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of daca and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24-                                                                ANNEX I
bul
RINPITtTOlti OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
jgjjj   Although tics dost draw    .a  nourcon gSorllp  judgaid the mas .taohorittlts and rsllicbls, it should also bs  otd  tha  tby say awn ho  toas-
nationally onspar.bla bataus  of thn  'act of atadadia-d  W~Iu I..on   ad    -PtIp .d by difsr...t Ioutri. to                       II coloioI thu data.  Th. dan   ps.
thalass .. sful to dascr.ibs ordura of nagutoda, iwdicat. irsad, .ud charac.onnis. osrsi  nIo dtffs....s-  batno    ucaris
Thcs tefaran     grou.ps am  (1) tbs rs c-ctry groap of th. suhinot country sod (2) A couctry Strop sith sancnhishnr a-traga tos .                           tialb  cot"n  arI..
of abs subjaut coutry (-noPt f. orCapito  Surpla. Oil fufpoot-r` group ohrs "Stidda Iut-   North Africa  sad atddi. lat   sabs  b.osa   of nttwrp
WWg-utua    fIIjln).  Inc th  N r.famonos.grop dut  tics  -.aagS.  a ppotin snightad artohatic  -aa  for  -ah tadicoto  sa  show  only sh1in an
Isant half of thcs conuina In A grou.p has data for thst  Windtu.t            Disc  ticsl:-oSa. of cocc.trln seal tha  aditaturn. dap.Wda on nth  aa"iablity of
data asd Is nat u-if.-s, oonia ot ha  -nartd to rnlaat   asrga  of oaa indicator to anathur.  rhns. s_arga a.t.. only uasfu1 inc.                              oi    -inwos
of wa  ladi-ntor at A tins   -Sc the  -otry sad rsfsrnocsgroapt.
ML'"AR"    Itaus   nq.'.)                                                                       fooato   a  Ph"nIcin c"             lto  Ofridad by noflr on pr-uIatag pip-
Tonal - ITnal s..ofucs  oa  ooSpeisaioj LAWa aa a ad inlaud aser.                                toan   qualifindtoeu sdlol scicool on ei...rItny isus
Asriccltoorl - Cnatnoca of  agIcltra  satusd asnpsrsrtly or rrasoty                           Pacalationos  OuraNin  Patno   - Pspodnton dividad by ac"a  of p-anictg
for crops, posauoss, sorhut sd hinchon gadns or to lit tulle; 1077 doto,                      salt ad ta1s  grudatn Aondns..  pratnical  -aa,   d asistant moas.
PEPR CAPITA illS) - GNP par -spits sstlats at  -ur-a  naIkt pricas, cal-                         ucisa  sd roru)diida   cytaI awatiww    .ar  off h.Isagin   had
culanad icy. ass   unyato  nathod as World lank Atlas  0197y-yq hsstsf   190.                   awilabla to public and Prt-ast etu   sad spralsd                 isayta   -am
170, and  1979 doa.                                                                            hahilitattan  toara         -apitnln ar  satabDiW       ts  pao tinny stff 
COMO CONgSUMPTION PUR CAPITA - A--Iu cousption of oc-nrcia   sary (oa                           ic  o  lste   physician    lattliobansta pr-vidir  pristipally ontad"la
sad ligit,ptrl, P           tor.l  us.  and hydro-,..coolsa.    a  goharsa  ala-                cr   r   c   nldd    adhsius   ots.ttoaiance    aia
t.l.-' -t-             I   "' "                              I~~~~~~~~oIat  atpurma tai   csf fad by a phyatata  fiat by a adios  asaftet.
triclityf  to kcilogoas  of col-I    iclutPar toPits; 1980,  91970. sod 1978                    moa,sowfa.sc) wioi  oftfa  is-patiet a n atesdPT-Lds a
data.                                                                                           litind rnna of sadical facilits. trstiisad.,lpuryas  as-e  inpi-
POKnATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                          ~~~~tulsiinclude WMs  prictipsl pssra1 sad  psoialisad bapitais. Sed rura
Total Porco1ation. laid-Tsar Caiilli,A' - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                 Ahmisqits.lo oar   rsia   u  -r.   To.ptal asda  nt a   fdisis -tnaty diaa-s
data.                                                             from  hoapitals ~~~~~~~~~~diidsd icy tu a,Sbr of hada.
Orbca  Po-aoltisa is--on  nof noca   - Rtito of urhat to tota  p.ptlatiot;
diffar-a  daftaiiuo   of orib  arsas say afc   cosyrbilitY of data                       ncatuc
en-    ooors;  90 19 70,    an   98dn.                                                      A-..oIs Si.. of Onusabo.ld (nrat   -a  h-abold)   t.tntl.ura.sdno-
tstdpoplatin b  ag  andanaudthic   otaiy  o  tsrctlityrucsa..d    196                      rl uunodts  sttctiu-purousus._M. I                                '
mouts farfariliy  rat .ds   horn    .I the    ylvl   sasing  d-licy inthooupsh                          pats.
fattit   accoring  to lace  tl'tsyan  past faPily - plasain   parfoIcca                  AIcass tc   b.crioft  (aooaoPt r n     - du tllns.   toa.:aho. a  nta-
iStatnr oud4 iu   -I  a stationaryi. pouuicochr .. s. cc grow.pth sOursb.                                                                                  ;,
tin iclrni  ats is aqul to cbs daoic rant,  nd absothaapacructarss-      UOCaTIC
mom .onoaf.I Ti   saiiodol   ta atility IIoanns t..   -...-.     dacIus cc            -du-ndtunlVst saio
ast.sa-ad  on   thu Ossis           .. of tic   r)o     hurs orstitic  of tis -plutio       Cpr-imory   achoL-ass pooanoa turnaityg   itc'da  clltna  ga  6-li
incb yf.rtilit   , as-d  tics prajtsodsia  of frcicpc'ataorspaoa                              yar to un1 ad)u d for. difarntlsngt pi- f  riay   sc tio   a
mc4   - lanai.                                                                                                     oosaltuduca.L.  r-h   ..
th. birth III. L.  q-1 t. th. d-th   Aocotris  coni  aol ith                                                  aunltn-a nayonc-aD100ATIcon
Pont sta    t-t.r ounlilo Is ronhnd -  Tc  yny         oa sft.tooty tcilltyl-oa.I            al.tossn        oiasshlw0   hr   iso  no   colaa
alas its  sa        -Iof-i tsaohsd.                                                        ostico rtory sc~hoo --I toa,asad feala -  CI...pttsd a  shns  audundan
Pra.f it   - Opld-yas  pooltotpr  qur  blfa   (Iy     M tti yppilltIcrtrs    f                  rcdsgasa,oaioonl,  I0nshrtacn    attc                                 o   ui
only.Id        hlocaticfutolpInarolisfshotpp.b.iorosotr  oof   t                                                                            Idcy   -d, huoinwld-nattut6co
66pct) yu ra20irad (65I.t ps fa sd.clar) as pf-rtiliss ofI ti-yn I.pl-                       yscoy orI  dja   . dapsrtnsotn  of  t sanaory' Osoftut-ylutna.
l t.to  id,190,- nod 1979           ed-  h.y- h. data.                                    Pucul-,io.I.achrtraio  prih orn-tsa   as roundaty - Vca  ac-dn    sooniPAd
psar ospalaitin     fur181-601190-7, sd 1td-8.-oconpcdoo-insla
Midaafn  11-hoy 96-0,p. and.  . 197-e.  kssrrctoaasof  otaladut  populatiof  pgpd 15  proora andscar.
Crndn uruic los fon  ahuassd) -I                                                           ......lonJicltha psocitcoaod ofPid-yrs
popultion   1960  197,ad 197  dapta.d ..bcifttud...rolfonIr2-
Crus lanhSac  fot tcuaad)- dnua  docic  pr cccosodof  ld-rsr        Paasonr Ors  tsrohosod tculrlcl -Pssaasr ors  ~tta  mto
popultion  iNW, 180, sd 199 daa.                   crs sstlt  lsa  tha  sitct prson; ..cluds silanot, ianraa so
Gra loudcia   o;-csas   ahw   f  aghas     ostwilhatto                                   aiit65bcla
of a.ich-A.ro  daisaodstusisao -                 otoCihildyploct  ycgrD.                      ns14 y-ffaco;k data fc15c   rnrtcJyara  a   c th    n p ocprhasnsa
I.,   70, -d 1978 4.t..                                                               I.~~~~~~I c,otnOs  odtoiyar  -borgars oo  TO ss1   cd..in sf1fsca.
fao.fPndPauta 1950iscit 1109h9-71970i781-1Idoo   a  cro    cul                       rooo   diyados   oast nidps"~ dbfy                     a  os-  a t parnu  rL. pth
PrudcootIo Goft all fond          )  -nbndtina     Prodctio  onc-ha  sand. and ftsd  and.      llctioc P-dnooa   rnrl   ororiagarlnw.I                                 ni
is ca  alsadr y   960ha 70. CAdn 197   coys  rrorygns  a.suacco                         c  ondiy  If itarPu stIsa 1 tour.tis d.1  (.sbl. t     -                      i.
Cr05 arcb onoludadh).   dgrs         A--J prdciuco  biath. pou tor in. hnd  00                 tiid-odduigtcy-r,icuigadlanac   otni   iia
an.Itiogisog p960     du197 r pcdc 197 gca d   96t -65  197, sd 170  ata
Pr.d crio  curtly- ct-oIotihs (raro..t.o rduia          Itfl    C       iprd-,frc             so .... t 1 coins.       -odP..Io--.Iop .-
noarg  sqocalat ofast taod     b. uposs  4oa-lhlt.  Ac      ilulrypn  carn            -Io tIf    -hiC l
psrho- duy.    -v-iti-clie sop iss    hp.   dap stir... produrnic. i-porca lets           Total Lao   ors         heuscda  -.. I.o    -)s-oAllytaptics  p rso .. including     b
tnproit    on  chungas finy-snook     . Nat odloits      I ac 60nd   stint1  fnd, asd,       audfrcsaduopoydhterui                            osw          suut,nt
nat  wr      A -ion   icy FA  csdcnpca  ogoloaafc   omlsot                                  .a
hoahl .oa;196-5   90   n   97dt.fsioa   sooaso  tonal  ahr torca; 196.  190                                                                        onf17   -dat
oa   upl   ffcu   u  dy    a  spl  f  fod..df.a  a   hy.   s                                   o  sIacof-loy  Oscar and gas sa  parsnqg  of nna.l sicofoa  1960
slownc   of 6U.stom   of... tano  pronind pnc  a   n  1   r    of otonriad              Pboia icaliosh(srcIat -t toa. ml.ad ras-    anpaino
rusapooi,  f  hchI  gri..sico   ha antoo pirtai-.1 d-i-ass( stndhacyl...nscaotd ustalm ,onfilsabrooss
anolposaa   osnnufroaard    rpndiyPPI   b    hr                                            91   90   n  1975 data.. insasars  It'  pr-i-ripaninrbIAdaa...let            n
Icld PodnIryf           96-1  17 ad  1977dots                                                 ...aa III    our  o pnbi a pn- 'Pulto    cdl ong  ia rr.-. AY fan asni
FM r ANDsoITI ONtansol     u  n           ladrla-Poacspl   f0add-                               a can -ncs        dI Pro .oci Io hotn..              d;      .-J    f.t
tivd  tn    ninla  ndpolas  n  tsa  pa  dy;  96-65  190  nd  977daa.  conlolucndacyattc     ttric-   ..t pnclaiou  -us Sh 5 and 61 sod cyst
Chid  as  161Nctolt bo.n huad.rAna'onapcthuadi                                           otc  atllbcfra
atbith  1d0. 17 y      ad b 1979 G.data..1        pi-9o,,.                                  I        "il         f
Icofsatonraliv San  onn icoato) -dnoul  asth  oftnPntsc"ffoc  Vas    cons,TAI  oofy
ofss  oatl thdnsa  ASuS pit t.           isnaw                                                        Maclana  P            Catyloe  oa         .f  . pa  cat  -tica sad. rood
IaaaO   af   oa   oasn   fontltu)    oa.ana.sdoua    ,                                 A'olt   ostyirm   lr    sntotnslws   aenlncaaaa
stsnaplp(iolds d          o)   s  rruswaaro uto           roIfdico d unoneoos                                     'tf dscl
owarauic  s tat  romproatd hrahJ oa            19r7ng, so-antc  sts  as9IatiIkcad asiandiva  thyro  Inosa eve J                f0WJ 5 osti.. osota  - sobs Ifo,a
patann-I     o  tplrr-sapsotly   p htpulutso.1toa6 urca  7r8pbi                                uslrlcc    oatyIc                 aa  i   atidodosasptcpt
fcncO   or..P     doit,cad  otm ra shotof110 awoars PIr         osa ccsrny  a                 pssna bioow    fis           or.    ro   sa   sdncdfrmostr
fqily   . owa   sea                                                                           _____
dusl mp  ncldstihu  onlaf  o    a   -diapuad  alto  orniht tonaan,                                                   Inni            rIlp is an  Pou-tiona Ospurason
of-ta I att   a   ot-ane Icy faa-ou  spate   ortis  n  o                                                                                      Iais  1
pi1pics noddspalsy Nssaltifcas. . - .



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980 (preliminary)                   ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH (R , constant 1970 prices)
US$ Mln.        %                          1965 - 74                      1974 - 80
GNP at Market Prices           3,569         100.0                             2.4                           -1.6
Gross Domestic Investment        811          23                               6.1                          -18.5
Gross National Saving            416          12                               5.7                          -20.2
Current Account Balance         -395         -11
Exports of Goods, NFS          1,406          39                               2.1                           -3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,512           42                              3.9                           -11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 (preliminary)
Value Added                    Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$  Mln.                                                            U       $Mln.  LS I%
Agriculture                   510           14.3                 0.873       52.0                   584          25.5
Industry                    1,428           40.1                 0.252       15.0                5,667         247.0
Services                    1,624           45.6                 0.428       25.5                3,794          165.4
Unallocated                   -               -                  0.126        7.5                   -             -
Total/Average             .            ._,_I
3,562          100.0                1,679      100.5                 2,z94         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government=                               Central Government
(  K  Mln.)         % of GDP                      (K  Mln.)           % of GDP
1930        1980        1971 - 79
Current Receipts                                                                          764          25             26
Current Expenditure                                                                     1,028          34             27
Current Surplus                                                                          -264         -9              -2
Capital Expenditures                                                                       87           3              6
External Assistance (net)                                                                  94           3              3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1965  1970  1972         1974    1975   1976       1977   1978    1979    1980
(.Million  K  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     107.6  355.6  341.0        440.7   493.0  623.0    699.0   640.0   832.0   907.0
Bank credit to Public Sector              -88.7 -163.8  147.2         78.1   373.0  571.0    791.0 1,C62.0 1,122.0 1,354.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/           42.3  136.9  165.0        335.8   393.0  399.0    470.0   462.0   483.0   505.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          15.1   27.8   25.5         23.1    31.1   33.3       35.8    29.1    31.7    29.9
General Price Index (1963 = 100)           76.2  102.6  114.6        132.1   145.4  172.8    207.0   240.9   264.3   295.2
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         8.2    2.6    5.4          8.1    10.1   18.8       19.8    16.4       9.7    11.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                             691.4       -61.9   378.2   53.1       38.5    34.3       5.6    20.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                      21.9   -9.7        92.1    17.0    0.2       17.8   -1).2    14.5       4.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Total labor force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern;  tlnemployed are
allocated to sector Qf their normal occupation, "'Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers
seeking their first job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government."
31 Includes parastatal organizations
..not available
.not applicable
EACP I
April 14, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX I
ZAMBIA                                      Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1980
1977     1978      1979  1980 (preliminary)                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           963       988    1,378  1,406               Copper                      1,260      91
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,007    1,025    1,046  1,512                Cobalt                         60       4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    _44        _37       332   -106               Lead and Zinc                  40
All other commodities         24        2
1,384     100
Factor Payments (net)          -100      -140      -124   -229
Net Transfers                   -84      -100       -75    -60
Balance on Current Account    -228       -277      133   -395
Direct Foreign Investment                  ..      ..               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31., 1979
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                244       364      306    305                                                   US $ Mln
Amortization                 120       161      3501// 170
Subtotal                     124       203      -44    T35         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              1,547
Capital Grants                             .                .         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             200        75       19    160         Total outstanding & Disbursed              1,547
Other items n.e.i              -169      -90       -73    -31
Increase in Reserves (+)        -74       -89       35   -131       DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19804/                 %
Gross Reserves (end year)        74        60       88      60
Net Reserves 2/(end year)      -227      -396     -354   -485         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Imports of petroleum             84        85      121    188         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed             28.6
RATES OF EXCHANGE (SDR's or US$ per Kwacha)3/
US$            SDR's
rIBRD/IDA LENDING, FEBRUARY. 1981  (Million US $):
Before February 1973         1.40       
February 1973 - July 1976   1.55                                                                      IBRD         IDA
July 1976 - March 1978                      1.0848
April 1978 - Dec. 1980          .           0.9763              Outstanding & Disbursed               338          2,5
Undisbursed                           94         18,7
ANNUAL AVERAGE                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         432         22,2
1977                     1.27           1.08
1978                     1.23           0.98
1979                     1.26           0.98
1980                     1.27           0.98
1/  Including US$186 million of reduction in arrears.
2/ Excluding external payment arrears.
3/  The Kwacha has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
4/  Ratio of estimated debt service, excluding arrears and IMF repayments, to exports of goods and non-factor
serviceb.                                    .. not available
not applicable
EA1DB



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 Pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of February 28, 1981
Loan     Credit
No.      No.       Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
16 Loans Fully   Disbursed               257.0
900-1              1973   Zambia              Education               33.0                9.0
919                1973   Zambia Elec-        Hydroelectric          115.0                4.6
tricity           Power
Supply Corp.
1057               1974   Zambia             Urban Development        20.0                0.5
1131               1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications    32.0                    11.4
1210               1976   Development        Development Finance   15.0
Bank of Zambia   Co.                                           2.5
1356               1977   Zambia              Education               13.3                 6.8
1424               1977   Zambia              Industrial Forestry   16.8                   7.6
1566      798      1978   Zambia              Third Highway           11.3   11.2        22.4
863      1979   Zambia              Coffee Production                6.0         3.9
873      1979   Zambia              Technical Assist.               5.0          4.8
1790     973       1980   Zambia             Third Railway            25.0   15.0        40.0
1923               1981   Development Bank Second Development
of Zambia         Finance Co.             15.0   _            15.0 1/
Total                                            553.4   37.2        128.5
of which has been repaid                         116.4
Total now outstanding                            437.0   37.2
Amounts sold                         49.6
of which has been repaid           47.8          1.8
Total now held by Bank/IDA 2/                    435.2   37.2
of which is undisbursed                         93.6   34.9       128.5
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustment



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
March 31, 1981
Investment                                                         US$ million equivalent
No.        Year                          Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
216 ZA         1972   Zambia Bata Shoe    Shoe manufacturing    0.85    0.23           1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA         1973   Zambia Bata Shoe    Shoe manufacturing    1.20                   1.20
Co. Ltd              and tannery
307 ZA         1975   Century Packages    Packaging materials   0.78    0.21           0.99
Ltd
324 ZA         1976   Development Bank    Development Finance                0.54      0.54
of Zambia            Co.
394 ZA         1978   Century Packages    Packaging materials   0.10                   0.10
Ltd.
483 ZA         1979   Nchanga Consoli-    Cobalt Production    28.00                  28.00
dated Copper
Mines
527 ZA         1980   Kafue Textiles of   Textiles & Fibers         7.60               7.60
Zambia Ltd.
Total gross commitments                             38.53    0.98    39.51
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                          10.39              10.39
Total now held by IFC                               28.14    0.98    29.12
Total undisbursed                                   22.30      -       22.30



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 900-ZA      Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of
June 6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is basically completed (excluding certain university compo-
nents and technical assistance that were deleted at Government's request) and
a project completion report is being prepared. The Closing Date, originally
March 31, 1980, was postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the borrower to
utilize savings to finance construction of twelve primary schools originally
included under the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project
and a maintenance program for secondary schools.
Loan No. 919-ZA      Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 million
Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date: January 15. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were commissioned
in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and the reservoir
filled. The project is expected to be completed within the appraisal cost
estimates. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation-s (ZESCO) financial per-
formance has not been satisfactory; tariffs were however increased 20 percent for
domestic users and 30 percent for industrial users during 1979. Largely because
of the economic recession affecting Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a
shortage of spare parts and the departure of some expatriate staff. The Closing
Date was extended to December 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on the
control of artesianal pressures to be carried out.
Loan No. 1356-ZA    Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is progressing well despite difficulties in procurement
of materials. All contracts for the Farmer Training Centers have been
completed and the technical assistance team provided by the Dutch Govern-
ment for the preparation of teaching programs is making progress. Despite the
difficult economic situation, the Government raised full counterpart funds to
maintain the construction program. The contract for the Education Services
Center, Phase II, was completed in October, 1980 and the contract for the
Evelyn Hone College Hostels was completed in April 1981. The project is
expected to be completed in January 1982, ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1057-ZA    Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of December 6, 1974; Effectiveness
Date: April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is nearing completion. In spite of serious economic
problems in the country and technical and climatic difficulties impinging on the



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
project itself, the project-s primary objective of providing services and
improving living conditions in Lusaka's squatter compounds has been achieved.
The catalytic effect on the continuing development of these communities by the
residents themselves has been, and is being, demonstrated. The housing stock
of the city has been substantially increased through the new sites and ser-
vices areas. Technical problems hindering the completion of some of these
sites have been solved and the remaining serviced plots are expected to be
allocated in the next few months. Most project works were completed by the
end of 1980 and the balance, mostly community facilities, by March 1981. Cost
recovery remains a serious problem. However, progress in carrying out the
action program agreed in November 1979 is good. This program is putting into
place the administrative and legal framework that is a prerequisite for
improved collections.
Loan No. 1131-ZA    Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
About US$4.4 million of the loan still remains to be committed.
Project completion is now expected by December 31, 1983, three years behind
schedule. Increase in tariffs averaging 75 percent in August 1979 has reduced
dependence of Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC) on government
financing of local costs of project. The problem of large accounts receivable
by PTC from Government and its agencies continues. Also, operational difficul-
ties with the newly commissioned (November 1980) semi-electronic main telephone
exchange in Lusaka has severely affected PTC's revenues for FY81; consequently,
the rate of return of FY81 is projected at 5.5 percent against 9.5 percent
achieved in FY80 and the covenanted 11 percent.
Loan No. 1210-ZA    Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
The loan has been almost fully committed for a number of projects
in various industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging, agriculture and
food processing. Disbursements now amount to about 83 percent of the loan.
Loan No. 1566-ZA    Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25 million
and                  Loan and US$11.25 million Credit) of June 27, 1978;
Credit 798-ZA        Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness, project implementa-
tion is behind schedule and completion is expected in mid 1984, six months
behind reappraisal (July 1979) estimates. Because of difficulties in
recruiting technical assistance personnel, the Government is hiring a firm to
provide the requisite staff. Procurement documents for road maintenance and
workshop equipment are being finalized; and consultants are finalizing their
report on the MSD reorganization. Consultants have been selected to carry out
feasibility studies of Mansa-Mwense-Nchelenge road.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1424-ZA    Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977: Effectiveness Date: November 15
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite problems
with staffing. Industrial Plantations Division's incorporation, which should
have been completed by December 31, 1978, has not yet been effected. Planting
targets are being exceeded.
Credit No. 863-ZA   Coffee Production Project:  US$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Expatriate and counterpart staffing are satisfactory and the planting
and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize are ahead of schedule.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule. Implementation under the smallholder
component has been slow and haphazard and lacked adequate guidance and
supervision. The plan for smallholder coffee development in Northwestern
Province is still not completed. Project costs are well above appraisal
estimates. A mid-term review mission is preparing its report.
Credit No. 873-ZA   Technical Assistance Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of
December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project will assist the Government with (a) foreign currency
financing for expatriate planners and project analysts for attachment to the
National Planning Commission and other ministries; (b) about 35 man-years of
consultant services for feasibility studies, design work, implementation and
other project-related activities; and (c) training of local staff, services,
equipment, vehicles, supplies and operating costs. To date one planning
expert and one project evaluation expert have been hired under the credit to
work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for Develop-
ment Planning. The financing of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol
project and a fisheries project to be undertaken by consultants has been
approved and several others are in advanced stages of approval for financing.
Loan No. 1790-ZA    Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 973-ZA   US$15 million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness
Date: March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
The project-s main components include the renewal and improvement
of about 112 kilometers of Zambia Railways track; installation of a new
centralized traffic control signalling system and extension of the railways
telecommunications system; acquisition of about 10 diesel locomotives and
repair of about 4 old ones; acquisition of about 915 wagons and 2 breakdown
cranes; and technical advisory services, studies and training. The project
is co-financed by the EEC (through a Special Action credit), AfDB, Japan, OPEC
Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1923-ZA    Second Developmcnt  Bank of Zambia Project:  US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981;                  Closing Date:  June 30, 1987.
The loan will support DBZ' commitments for medium-and large-scale
industrial, agro-industrial and agricultural projects.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216-ZA - Shoes and Tannery
General import restrictions in Zambia have prevented the company
from importing for resale all the finished footwear it required and the raw
materials it needed for its production operations. However, the decline in
production was more than offset by increases in the average selling price.
As expected, IFC's loan was fully repaid in June 1979. Profits increased by
50 percent in the year ending December 31, 1978 to US$3.7 (US$2.5 million in
1978) giving a return on equity of 61 percent and enabling the company to pay
dividends of US$0.47 per share.
Century Packages Limited - 207-ZA - Packaging
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than originally
anticipated, with an increase in project cost of US$530,000 which is equi-
valent to 26 percent of total costs. The main reasons for the increased
project cost are the mid-1976 devaluation of the Kwacha, increased costs of
civil works and increased preproduction expenses because of the delay in
project start-up. The increased project cost has been met largely through
provision of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds Agree-
ment.
Since operations commenced, the company has been affected seriously
by Zambian price control policies, which have undermined the market for
waxed wrappers, representing 45 percent of sales. To some extent this has
been offset by growth in the polyethylene wrapper market. Profits for 1980,
the third year of full operation, were K 174,000 (equivalent to 19.0
percent of equity).
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) - 324-ZA - Development Banking
DBZ principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term loans
and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing, agricul-
ture and tourism. In the fall of 1977 the Government instituted the new
Investment Act designed to offer greater incentives to private enterprises
and to attract more foreign investment. But, owing to the current economic
problems in Zambia, DBZ outstanding portfolio as of March 31, 1979 (US$47.4
million) was substantially below the level anticipated in the appraisal report
of October 1975 (US$98 million). However, total approvals increased from
US$15.0 million in FY79 to US$26.9 million in FY80, or by about 6.5 percent.
Profits increased by 10 percent from US$772,500 in FY79 to US$1.72 million in
FY80, which represents a 5.2 percent return on equity.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which not more than US$20 million
would be for IFC's account) to NCCM for a cobalt production project was
approved on September 4, 1979. US$13.3 million had been disbursed as of April
31, 1981, of which US$9.5 million is for IFC's account and US$3.8 million is
held by a participant.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         20 months
(b)  Preparation by                 :       Government of Zambia and
Bank Staff
(c) First Bank Mission to consider
the project                    :       September 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed   :         August 20, 1979
(e)  Post-Appraisal Mission         :       November 1980
(f)  Negotiations                           April 1981
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:         September 1981
II.    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III.   Special Conditions
Conditions of Disbursement
(a) No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for groundnut
shellers until the Borrower has furnished proposals satisfactory to
the Bank on the type of sheller to be purchased (para. 45 and Draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Paragraph 3(b)).
(b) No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for credit to
smallholders until ZADB has furnished a comprehensive five-year
financing plan acceptable to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 3(c)).
Other Conditions
(c) All staff referred to in Part 1 of the Annex to Schedule 2 of the
draft Loan Agreement to be employed by December 31, 1981: Govern-
ment to appoint counterpart staff (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.03).
(d) Establishment of Supervisory and Evaluation Committee by January 31,
1982 (para. 55 and Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) ECU to furnish a five-year financial and investment plan by
January 31, 1982 (Draft Project Agreement, Section 4.04(a)).
(f) Government to maintain recurrent expenditures for research and
extension in Eastern Province at 1979 levels in real terms; and
effective January 1, 1982 to progressively transfer operating funds
for these items from the capital to the recurrent budget (para. 52
and Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
(g) ECU and ZADB to revise their interest rate structures so as to
achieve adequate spreads by March 31, 1984 (Draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.04(b)).
(h) PPS, Eastern Province, to prepare a consolidated action plan and
budget by June 30 every year and furnish copies through MAWD to the
Bank for review (para. 55 and Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
(i) Government to review producer prices annually and agricultural
pricing policy biennially (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.05);
Government to review fertilizer prices annually (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.08).



Z A M B I A -
EASTERN PROVINCE                                                                                 .
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                 ChiwaleO'           N                         L.
PROJECT AREA
Mazin roads                                                              Y4s&            _                  tl\t -            g /
C    h    a    m    a,o
--Eleoat,oo cootocrs iosoeters                                            tMo/ AD$                                              2=\,
i)    Prociociad capital                                             (           D S   i  s  t      i c           t t
©     District headOuorrers                                                (                                        oChamoji
0    other tow6r
-         DDstrict boc.idorie-
le Iterratioral bocodaries                                                                  t      pChipamba        \      :1;                l
N  O  R  T  HERN                     < l>1tsir                              e    :=f5
PROVINE    
KILOMETERS S O 0         40       f0      80  TIo
MIlcEc            20           40                                                                                                     I
I                                                                                  Chifueda    Z    .f I
,r  A  _           (&ont          G
P R 0 V/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N CeniEf
W                                   7/ -    Ws. 1-    <.-  ::~  00 A4u   d a z>I                                                                   N
I   c ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      
A     c    i  / 
Jz
0    il $                        2t i   Eli C    t   t  Petok1      Sti 2rSrcloN'tt$E4[ Y5Tt<r;V<s
IZAMBA01                 'c   
-.    (5@E'e
80~~T4WiSA05
torrrsssrrrsroro 5515555 aoas,rroar aas.sA 






ZA M B I A
EASTERN PROVINCE                                                                       A         r
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                           °          f  jaL
POPULATION   AND  RAINFALL                                                      0                 I
POIPULAT ON DENSITYF                                                      : |{k         2F|>) _    
PW-- G,@   .,, ,-- k 1-.
M2rIo 401
Pccsecth.  eloerr 2 
MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL                                                                     
5fsrc.semsercccrclrlc-Aclp   8c |/969                                                                 &    \it     
800-   vhner,[rctr
c   h-c d-                                       N  O  R  T  H  E  R  N            
~ Prowclo bnc'rs' copac VX A  ./f- ;
0    Orr-roc-o
--Dcc,cb-c,c.e-                                 P  ROV   INC   E                          \       >     >    t
-  --  Isrernesinorl bocccdec,es                                             4dlg                       \aZ        i00;   
KILOMETERS 0    20     40      A0      80     AO                                                          9> 
MILES 0         20           4'          600
C E NTR A L
P ROV IN C E 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
IL _    \   ji1TtrP             .~  s     2 ~       ?         I1                                          c' c  t  za                        kkc/esseeLvt=iSslwuSz|1 bO6A%,. (\<
~~~~~~P7 -  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZIO crsesk 
__                0    ZC   A   M    B   I-        U    E              LooxcI    fUNc
I  ZAAABIA                    5
cfrcerecec,cccecor ooesrc.enc.A 5 0ccscs.sccccecdccr






Z A  /h B I A.                                                                                                          
EASTERN PROVINCE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                 C,                     '
AGRICULTURAL CAMPS-EXISTING AND PROPOSED                                                                            ."
l,la,a roods                               ('                                        Ma  18 01(                                      i
Secandarr roaas                                                      (                                                   \\t\    '        f    /$  =
__ _    TracksJ7Swe                                                                                                                           -~ 
o                             ~~~~~~~~                                                                          ~~R,ers  ve                                        H:f fS 
(      Pr-a-,al captol                                                                 >m
©      D sr,ct readquarerst
0     Other -oars
_    Ds5r,cl boardar,ea                                                                                                             :                          ;
_ _  Pras,ra,al aaondar,e ...   sr ===
_.         lorerraraonal boondoares                                                       .n                         ¢S                    *                      = 
GRICLJLTURAS CAMPS'                                                                                           y       -1,
A  Old coaps                                               N           R    T    H    E   R  N
ANew.carps,(Isred beloal                                   P    R   O    V    I  N   C  E
1 Mk-rda
3 Sa-,sa~
4 K-rp-obo
6 Yakaae
7 Ch-1eLa                                                                                                             Al
7 Chasesa                                                                  2:da                        A"'           '        LI! :            -
9 Mba,A
10 Kap-oolaI\o
Ii N-da                                                                                                              A       Luncrazi
I2 Nsoko-la'
13 Ch,koka
14 Mola-baso
15 s,ada
16 Ch,r,hoo//
17 Kofme                                                                        r          n   CT aZ   I
19 ChrP2mbe 
290 Kaljoara
21 Nkako
22 Ch,auko.a                                                         A,,Masayr            a                             -
23 Kapil,[                                                           JlA
0            KILOMETERS 0         20        40       00         O       100                                                                        p M ngw:
MILES0               20              40                                                                                              w      i
'Mesapa   ~~~  ~ ~                       OAlS        1A   h~       A lla 
C    E    N    T    R    A    L                                                                                                            ZAIRE 4              a
P R>  0 V0 I NCM    Z A MB  I Q U I                                                                                                 ANGQLAI\AYiY
Iku BSujofe 1 - _ 0 0 3 ; RWGf b[~~~~~~~AMBIAI,.THI&XEa  Ab) = 2
c            I z  a                               T. iv.0- o  =Ri
1qo,aas,ar.asI.-..soaaaaa.
aSSea,aa,0,,s5    550. aa.      s a5 S e a s,        EA I eI            K 0 5 A
asdaasOa  ,rSSer '5550,BAO,S2S
A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.5AY rOS5a  amaa-S,ao,aa55aS.s                                                '



