EOFFICIAL
DOiCUA           LOAN NUMBER 2001 ZA
DOCUMNTS
Loan Agreement
(Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        43, 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2001 ZA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated n    A4&044464 44/          , 1981, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making available the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
nine million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank has accepted
such appointment;
(D) by a Project Agreement of even date herewith among
the Bank, ECU, LINTCO and ZADB, each of the said parties has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(E) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 3, 1980
and April 3, 1980 between the Borrower and the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association), the
Association has granted to the Borrower a Project Preparation
Advance (hereinafter called the Project Preparation Advance) in an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of nine hundred and seventy-
five thousand dollars ($975,000) to assist in financing the
preparation of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, ECU, LINTCO, and
ZADB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forn
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "Special Drawing Rights" and "SDR" mean a special
drawing right as valued from time to time by the International
Monetary Fund;
(c) "ECU" means the Eastern Cooperative Union, a cooperative
society established pursuant to the Cooperative Societies Act,
1970 (Act No. 63) 1979 and the Cooperative Society Rules of
1972;
(d) "LINTCO" means the Lint Company of Zambia, a company
established by the Memorandum of Association dated April 1,
1978 under the provisions of the Borrower's Companies Act;
(e) "ZADB" means the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank,
a statutory body established by the Zambia Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank Act No. 18 of 1979;
(f) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank
ECU, LINTCO and ZADB, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time and suich term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g) "MAWD" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development of the Borrower;


﻿3-
(h) "PPS" means the office of the Provincial Permanent
Secretary, Eastern Province;
(i) "RDSB" means the Rural Development Studies Bureau
of the University of Zambia;
(j) "Project Advance Account" means the account to be
established pursuant to Section 4.05 of this Agreement;
(k) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ECU pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
and
(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and LINTCO pursuant to Section
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, a-a amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million dollars ($11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay to itself the amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of
the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall be
cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifth per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.,
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such allocation
may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund


﻿-5-
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be made
promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the application as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds
from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds
to be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned
by the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,
between the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 50:50, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Fund; provided, however, that, if such application shall be made
in respect of expenditures that shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan only, such application shall
be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Loan Account
or the Fund Account only.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an applica-
tion by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall: (i) pay the
amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from
the Loan Account to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) promptly
notify the Fund that it has received an application for withdrawal
from the Fund Loan Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the portion, if any,
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in the amount set forth in
such notice, and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such notice is eligible
for payment by the Fund.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandir until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
the Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter
into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect of the cost
of goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Bank that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of
the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the
Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project through MAWD; Parts H and I.1 of the Project
through PPS and Part 1.2 of the Project through RDSB, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause ECU, LINTCO and ZADB to perform in accordance with the


﻿-7-
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, licenses, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ECU, LINTCO and ZADB
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
promptly take all action necessary to permit ZADB and ECU to
adjust their interest rate structures to enable ZADB and ECU to
comply with their obligations under Sections 4.02 and 4.04,
respectively, of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
(a) enter into a Financing Agreement with ECU, acceptable to
the Bank, providing, inter alia, for: (i) an undertaking by the
Borrower to relend to ECU from the proceeds of the Loan up to
eight hundred fourteen thousand dollars ($814,000) equivalent,
repayable in twenty (20) years, including a five-year grace
period, at an interst rate of not less than nine and six-tenths
per cent (9.6%) per andum to assist ECU in carrying out Parts C.1
and 0.1 of the Project, and, from the Borrower's own resources,
such additional funds as may be required for carrying out the said
Parts; and (ii) an undertaking by the Borrower to make available
as a grant to ECU, from the proceeds of the Loan up to eigthy-two
thousand dollars ($82,000) equivalent, to assist ECU in carrying
out Part F of the Project and, from its own resources, such
additional grants as may be required, for carrying out the said
Part;
(b) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with LINTCO,
acceptable to the Bank, in terms of which it will relend to
LINTCO, from the proceeds of the Loan, up to one million seven
hundred fifty-two thousand dollars ($1,752,000) equivalent,
repayable in twenty (20) years including a five-year grace period
at an interest rate of not less than nine and six-tenths per cent
(9.6%) per annum to assist LINTCO in carrying out Parts C.2, D.2
and G of the Project and, from its own resources, such additional
funds as may be required for carrying out the said Parts;
(c) make available to ZADB under arrangements and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, up to one million seven


﻿-8-
hundred and forty-five thousand dollars ($1,745,000) equivalent
to assist ZADB in carrying out Parts E.3 and E.4 and, from its own
resources, such additional funds as may be required for the
carrying out of the said Parts;
(d) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and
the Fund and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(e) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the arrange-
ments with ZADB in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
agreement containing such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 4.03 The Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed: (i) not later than December 31, 1981, or such other
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the staff listed
in Part I of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all of
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, as
well as a Zambian counterpart for each of the staff listed in the
said Part I; and (ii) all other staff listed in said Annex.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall assign to PPS, in
accordance with its internal regulations and procedures for
supervision and control, the responsibility for Project imple-
mentaton. To this end, PPS shall: (i) review and consolidate the
annual work program and budget for each Part of the Project
prepared by the respective executing agencies; (ii) prepare not
later than June 30 of each year until the completion of the
Project, a proposed consolidated action plan and a budget on a
quarterly basis for the carrying out        the Project in the
following fiscal year; (iii) promptly send a copy of such plan and
budget to the Bank for its review.
(b) In addition to the aforesaid plan and budget, PPS
shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of semi-annual reports for each
Part of the Project prepared by the respective executing agencies,
a consolidated semi-annual progress report including Project
expenditures and disbursements for such period; and (ii) send


﻿-9-
not later than two months after the end of each such period, a
copy of such progress report to the Bank and the Fund.
Section 4.05. Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement the Borrower shall: (i) establish
and maintain in the Bank of Zambia, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank, a Project Advance Account to be used by PPS
for the purpose of meeting recurrent expenditures under Parts A,
B, H and I of the Project; and (ii) deposit in such Project
Advance Account, at the beginning of each quarter, the funds
required by PPS for recurrent expenditures under said Parts of the
Project during such quarter.
Section 4.06. The B,rrower shall not later than January 31,
1982 establish a supervisory and evaluation committee with
composition, powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
and the Fund.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's and the Fund's accredited


﻿- 10 -
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or she Fund Loan and any relevaut records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank and the Fund at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Fund a report, taking into account the findings of the
Project evaluation as referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agree-
ment, of such scope and in such detail as the. Bank and the Fund
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and the
Fund of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Parts A, C and G of the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 11 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause PPS: (a) to maintain
separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project;
(b) to have the Project accounts, including the certifi-
cates of expenditures referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agree-
ment, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 12 -
(c) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and
(d) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. To the extent that any withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan are made on the basis of
certificates of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause ECU and PPS
to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, the underlying
documentation on which such certificates were based (bills,
receipts, invoices or other such documents) and shall make such
documentation available to the Bank and the Fund for its
inspection.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) make annual allo-
cations to its recurrent budget for recurrent expenditures
in respect of research and extension services in the Eastern
Province, in amounts which, in real terms, are not less than the
amounts allocated in the 1979 recurrent budget for such services;
and (ii) commencing January 1, 1982, gradually transfer from its
development budget to its recurrent budget all budgetary alloca-
tions necessary to cover operating costs of research, extension
services, tsetse control and project management related to Parts
A, B, H and I of the Project, so that, at the time of completion
of the Project, all allocations for such operating costs will have
been transferred to its recurrent budget.
Section 5.05. The Borrower undertakes that in order to
maintain adequate incentives to increase agricultural production
by smallholders, it will: (i) continue to review producer prices
on an annual basis, taking into account the cost of production to
smallholder producers and the level of border prices for various
crops, to determine whether producer incentives are adequate; and
(ii) review its agricultural pricing policy with the Bank every
two years.


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, maintain in existence in the Eastern Province the posts
of Provincial Agricultural Officer, Provincial Extension Training
Officer, Provincial Tsetse Control Officer and Provincial Tsetse
Control Biologist and, in case of a vacancy arising in one or
several of such posts, promptly fill such vacancy or vacancies
with qualified and experienced staff.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall pay ECU an advance service
charge before each farming and marketing season sufficient to
cover all trading costs that shall be reasonably estimated to be
incurred by ECU during such season in connection with the
marketing of the agricultural produce and the distribution of
farm inputs in the Borrower's Eastern Province. Said service
charge shall be computed in accordance with annual procurement
plans and criteria satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and
ECU.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall review annually, in con-
sultation with the Bank, the prices of fertilizer established by
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) ECU, LINTCO or ZADB shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen .which shall
make it improbable that ECU, LINTCO or ZADB will be able to
perform any of its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c) any legal provision governing or applicable to the
organization or operations of ECU, LINTCO or ZADB shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ECU, LINTCO or ZADB to carry out any of
their obligations under the Project Agreement or the efficiency of
their respective organizations;


﻿- 14 -
(d) ECU, LINTCO or ZADB shall be unable to pay their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ECU, LINTCO or ZADB or by others whereby any of the property
of ECU, LINTCO or ZADB shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ECU, LINTCO or ZADB or for the suspension of operations
of ECU, LINTCO or ZADB; and
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any Loan (including the Fund
Loan) made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) or any event specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) or
(f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action. and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been duly fulfilled and the Fund has appointed the Bank as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(b) the Financing Agreement .has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ECU;
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and LINTCO;
(d) the Borrower shall have appointed the extension manage-
ment specialist, the senior planning officer and the senior
finance officer referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2; and
(e) the Project Advance Account referred to in Section 4.05
of this Agreement has been established and an initial amount has
been deposited, sufficient to cover the recurrent expenditures
under Parts A, B, H and I of the Project for the first three
months of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ECU, LINTCO and ZADB, and is legally binding upon
ECU, LINTCO and ZADB in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and ECU and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and ECU in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 16 -
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and LINTCO and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and LINTCO in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date                  e       . is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.04. If (1) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have
failed to come into force and effect by the date specified in
Section 7.03 of this Agreement or a later date established by the
Bank for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions,
or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the
Loan shall have been paid before the Fund Loan Agreement shall
have terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement
shall be deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only
to the extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund
Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual
interest to the parties thereunder, subject to -such modifications
of the Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, or (ii) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agree-
ment has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall, to
the extent that they relate to the responsibilities of the Bank as
the Cooperating Institution, forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 17 -
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             ZA 42221
Lusaka
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
V             ,Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of the     the Fund Loan
Loan Allocated    Allocated (Ex- % of Expen-
(Expressed in      pressed in SDR  ditures to
Category      Dollar Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
1. (a) Vehicle,         2,095,000        2,000,000     100% of
spares,                                       foreign ex-
and equip-                                    penditures
ment                                          and 80% of
local ex-
penditures
(b) Groundnut          75,000           60,000     100% of
decorti-                                      foreign ex-
cators                                        ditures and
80% of
local ex-
penditures
(2) Civil works:        2,140,000        1,860,000     95%
houses, wells
irrigation sys-
tems, stores,
packing plant
and ginnery
improvements
(3) Technical assis-                                   100%
tance, consul-
tancy services
and study tours:
(a). Part E.3      1,445,000
of the
Project


﻿- 19 -
Amount of
Amount of the     the Fund Loan
Loan Allocated    Allocated (Ex-  % of Expen-
(Expressed in      pressed in SDR  ditures to
Category      Dollar Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
(b) Part E.1            -             445,000
of the
Project
(c) Parts A, B,    2,100,000        2,100,000
G, and I of
the Project
(4) (a) Provision           -              775,000     100%
of credit
under Part
E.2 of the
Project
(b) Provision         300,000              -       100%
of credit
under Part
E.4 of the
Project
(5) Tsetse control,       200,000          165,000     100% of
sprayers and                                      foreign ex-
chemicals                                         penditures
and 80% of
local ex-
penditures
(6) Salaries and        1,245,000        1,020,000     100% of lo-
wages under                                      *cal expen-
Parts A, B,                                       ditures up
H and I                                           to an ag-
gregate
disbursed
amount of
$1,000,000;
thereafter
90% of lo-
cal expen-
ditures up


﻿- 20 -
Amount of
Amount of the     the Fund Loan
Loan Allocated    Allocated (Ex-  % of Expen-
(Expressed in      pressed in SDR  ditures to
Category      Dollar Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
to an ag-
gregate
disbursed
amount of
$1,500,000;
thereafter
70% of lo-
cal expen-
ditures up
to an ag-
gregate
disbursed
amount of
$1,900,000;
therafter
30% of lo-
cal expen-
ditures
(7) Refunding of        975,000
the Project
Preparation
Advance
(8) Unallocated         425,000           575,000
TOTAL   11,000,000         9,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 21 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect oft
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement or the date of the Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall
be later;
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1)
(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Bor-
rower shall have furnished proposals, satisfactory to the Bank,
in respect of the type of groundnut decorticators to be purchased;
and
(c) payments made by ZADB for expenditures under Category
(4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until ZADB
shall have furnished to the Bank the financing plan specified in
Section 4.02 (a) of the Project Agreement.
4.   Disbursement under Category (4) of the table shown in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be made on the basis of cert-
ificates of expenditure, signed by the General Manager of ECU and
ZADB, respectively.
5.   Disbursement under Category (6) of the table shown in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be made on the basis of cert-
ificates of expenditure, signed by the Provincial Permanent
Secretary, Eastern Province.
6.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Fund that no proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank and
the Fund.
7.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Fund loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated


﻿- 22 -
that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds of the
Fund Loan shall be made to Categories 3 (a) and 4 (b); and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
8.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Fund Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement or of the Fund Loan under the Fund
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan and/or the Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The major objectives of the Project are to increase the
agricultural production and improve the standard of living of
smallholders in the Eastern Province of the Republic of Zambia
through the provision of improved agricultural services. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:  Agricultural Research:
1. Strengthening and expansion of the Msekera and
Masumba research stations through provision' of
housing, equipment and employment of the staff
listed in the Annex to this Schedule.
2. Strengthening of the Mount Makulu research station
through provision of equipment and establish-
ment of an irrigated isolation field.
Part B:  Provincial Extension Service:
Reorganization of the Provincial extension service
to introduce a "training and visit" system, including
employment of the staff listed in the Annex to this
Schedule and provision of housing, equipment, training
courses and study-tours.
Part C:  Expansion of Storage Capacity:
Increasing of the storage capacity for agricultural
inputs in the Eastern Province through:
1.   the construction and expansion of about 63 medium
to large stores for ECU; and
2.   the construction and expansion of about 36 small
stores for LINTCO.
Part D:  Agricultural Inputs:
1.   Provision of additional agricultural inputs,
including fertilizer, seed and pesticides for
distribution to smallholders by ECU.


﻿- 24 -
2.   Provision of additional agricultural inputs,
including fertilizer, cotton seed and cotton
pesticides for distribution to smallholders by
LINTCO.
Part E:   Agricultural Credit:
1.   Strengthening of ECU's credit operations through
the employment of the staff listed in the Annex
to this Schedule.
2.   Provision of credit by ECU to smallholders for the
financing of agricultural inputs.
3.   Strengthening of ZADB's credit operations nation-
wide through employment of the staff listed in the
Annex to this Schedule.
4.   Provision of credit by ZADB to smallholders for the
financing of agricultural inputs.
Part F:   Groundnut Decorticators
Expansion of groundnut production through the provision
by ECU of groundnut decorticators at about 50 selected
markets in the Easten Pro.iLcs.
Part G:   LINTCO:
1.   Expansion of the LINTCO-owned cotton ginnery
located in Chipata through the construction of
about 1,700 m2 of additional storage capacity.
2.   Construction of an insecticide packing plant
for LINTCO.
Part H:   Tsetse Control:
Clearing of an area of about 1700 km2 in the Petauke
District of tsetse flies through hand spraying.
Part I:   Project Planning, Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation:
1* Strengthening of PPS to enable it to plan, coordi-
nate and monitor Project implementation, through the


﻿- 25 -
employment by MAWD of the staff listed in the Annex
to this Schedule and to be seconded to PPS for the
purposes of the Project.
2. Evaluation of the Project by RDSB, including
the preparation of base line studies, on-going
evaluation of Project implementation and a post-
Project evaluation, with the assistance of the
Research Officer.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 26 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Staffing Requirements
I.     2 Agronomists (Part A.1)
1 Plant Pathologist (Part A.1)
1 Pasture Agronomist (Part A.1)
1 Livestock Production Officer (Part A.1)
1 Extension Management Specialist* (Part B)
1 Provincial Farm Management Officer (Part B)
1 Credit Specialist (Part E.1)
1 Agricultural Development Banking Specialist (Part E.3)
1 Program Development Specialist (Part E.3)
1 Personnel Development and Training Specialist (Part E.3)
1 Agricultural Credit Specialist (Part E.3)
1 Senior Planning Officer* (Part I.1)
1 Senior Finance Officer* (Part I.1)
1 Research Officer (Part 1.2)
II.    1 Seed Production Officer (Part A.1)
1 Laboratory Technician (Part A.1)
5 Diplomates and 70 certificate holders (Part B)
8 full-time Credit Officers** (Part E.1)
2 Junior Planning Officers (Part I.1)
4 Accounts Assistants (Part I.1)
2 Accounts Clerks (Part I.1)
*    The appointment of qualified and experienced staff to these
posts is a condition of effectiveness as referred to in
Section 7.01 of this Agreement.
**   At present there are 8 half-time Credit Officers in place.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1986
through   December 15, 2000                 365,000
On June 15, 2001                                 415,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                     7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                     8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the
Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for vehicles, spare parts and equipment shall
be grouped to the extent practicable to form appropriate bid
packages. Bidders will be given the option of bidding for each
bid package separately or for a combination of several bid
packages and be required to maintain in Zambia adequate after-
sales and spare parts inventories.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or


﻿- 30 -
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Zambia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Republic of Zambia
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after


﻿- 31 -
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction of houses, stores, the packing plant and 'the
ginnery improvements shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures, acceptable to the Bank, which
provide that companies registered in any member country of the
Bank, Switzerland and Taiwan are entitled to bid. -
2.   The rehabilitation of housing for extension workers may
be carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.   The construction of wells and the rehabilitation of housing
for extension workers, where the procedures referred to in para-
graph 2 above are not practicable, may be carried out by force
account by MAWD, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles and equipment esti-
mated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and seeds may be
procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of the
Borrower; provided, however, that the price of vehicle and equip-
ment contracts so procured shall, in the aggregate, not exceed
$480,000 equivalent.
5.   Incremental requirements for fertilizer and pesticides to be
procured through ECU and cotton insecticides and sprayers to be
procured through LINTCO shall be (i) grouped with the overall
national requirements for such items, and (ii) procured under
normal government procedures, acceptable to the Bank, which
include broad international tendering.


﻿- 32 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, spares, equip-
ment, fertilizer and pesticides, and insecticides and sprayers
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the


﻿- 33 -
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  21 day of           , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


